ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u1	Hey, guys! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional point in the Weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision for the opening of a higher military school named the Higher School of Air, Georghi Benkovski, importer: the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019 to become the second for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, more projects for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I propose that the following additional points be included in the National Assembly's Work Programme: Second vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 27 March 2019 adopted on the first vote on 4 April 2019. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. A joint project drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 3 April 2019 with importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 6 March 2019; Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. I propose that they be included as the first and second points for the plenary sitting on Friday, 19 April 2019. Please, voting mode. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2018 Importer: Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019 You have a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure on the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act to extend the deadline for proposals by four more days, to Monday included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I'm voting on Mr. Nikolov's procedure. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I give the floor to Mr. Velchev to read the Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I introduce you to the Report, I would like to do a procedure under art. 49, para. 2 in the Chamber to be admitted: Mrs. Maya Manolova supplier of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Hristina Rangelova, Senior Expert of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u5	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 105 MPs: for 104, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u6	Quiet, please! Colleagues, please calm your emotions! Quiet, please! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u7	♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-03, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. A Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019 was discussed at a regular meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, held on 10 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and experts of the institution. The report on the Ombudsman's activities in 2018 was presented by the Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova. She stated that, compared to 2015, when she took office, the number of complaints has increased twice and the number of visits to the reception room, which is proof of increased trust in the institution. The total number of complaints and alerts received in 2018 was 12 890, which is 2% more than in 2017. The number of complaints and alerts completed in 2018 was 12 258. The population in the country where the Ombudsman met with the citizens is 139, 54 exported admissions, as well as 4 mobile receptions are organized. The number of citizens consulted at the institution's reception is 24,634, with 36,892, which is 5.8% higher than the previous year. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And in 2018, the number of complaints and signals from public service users is the largest in 2018 - 3009, which represents 23,34% of all complaints - follow complaints related to violated or affected social rights by 15.43% and the third place occupies property problems by 10.05%. Can you leave the room? Madam President, I'm sorry that I'm the one who... It's like shopping in here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u8	These are mostly representatives of the Educational Commission, I don't know why.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u9	"Report an increase in complaints against the water operators, which puts these complaints first among the other public services. A significant number of signals related to electronic communications services, electricity supply and heating services are followed. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that the practice of monopoly companies that perform public services and also banks continues to transfer their duties to collector companies and believes that legislative changes are needed. It also focuses on increasing the number of complaints related to the environmental rights of citizens. In 2018, the trend for increasing the number of complaints against judicial contractors decreased, with 832 complaints received throughout the year, i.e. 41% less than in 2017, at the end of which was amended at the initiative of the Ombudsman, the Civil Procedure Code. Mrs. Manolova noted that a significant topic in the work of the Ombudsman in 2018 is the protection of one of the most vulnerable groups in society, who needs the most support in the realization of her rights. She pointed out as the most important result of the joint actions of the Ombudsman, the representatives of the people with disabilities and the institutions is the adoption of the Law on People with Disabilities, the Law on Personal Aid and the Law on Social Services. This marks an important step in reforming the policy for people with disabilities. One of the main directions in the institution's activities over the past year is related to the problems of children. The highest number of complaints regarding the protection of children's rights in a family environment is the one that includes complaints about actions of protection authorities, parental conflicts, alternative care, family problems and others. The problems of children with disabilities, as well as those related to violence in the family, on the street and at school, are also a special focus in the activity. Mrs. Manolova noted that the social rights of citizens were at the forefront in the work of the institution last year. In 2018, assistance is sought mainly to pay due wages, provide social support and receive financial resources, find employment. In 2017 and 2018, there was a significant increase in the number of complaints compared to 2015 and 2016. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that as a result of good cooperation and interaction with the National Assembly, a number of legal changes have been adopted to resolve a number of problems regarding mining work and the retirement of the miners, obtaining a survivor's pension from children left without one or both parents, incorrect employers and others. Among other initiatives, the Ombudsman highlighted the extremely important campaign that has become the cause of the European campaign against the double standard of food. It will be successfully finalised and will be proof that the European institutions work in the interests of citizens. A serious place in the report is devoted to the Ombudsman's activities as a National Preventive Mechanism.... visits to prisons... prisons and investigative arrests, psychiatry, social institutions for elderly people and children, refugee centers. In 2018, the National Preventive Mechanism reported progress in improving the domestic conditions of prisoners in detention places located in southern Bulgaria. As a result of his activities on specific issues, the Ombudsman exercised his right to an indirect legislative initiative. 11 bills and 2 requests were submitted to the Constitutional Court. The Ombudsman's annual report for 2018 also includes a special part related to monitoring the implementation of international human rights acts and information on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights' judgment decisions, as well as on those in an enhanced monitoring procedure by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. During the discussion the MPs Krassimir Velchev and Pavel Shopov expressed their views on the Report on the activity and status of the institution, the notion of a Kosovo legislative initiative of the Ombudsman and it was emphasized that both the National Assembly and the Ombudsman need to work in the interests of and to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 9 votes for the Council, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. The Commission also proposes a draft decision to be debated and adopted by the National Assembly: "Project" DECISION on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Following is a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u11	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 10 April 2019 discussed and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Maya Manolova, Member of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Eva Zhecheva, Director of the Department of Child Rights, Mrs. Nurten Patrakli, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Child Rights and Mrs. Atanaska Mutafchieva, Senior Expert, Department of Social Rights, Education, Health and Environment. On behalf of the importer, the report, as part of the Commission's competence, was presented by Mrs Maya Manolova. The Ombudsman noted that the institution's activities for 2018 regarding children's rights have passed under the sign of two national campaigns. National campaign for orphan children and protection of their right to inherited or personal pensions, resulting in changes to the Family Aid Act introducing a new kind of monthly assistance for children with one or two deceased parents without income criteria. National campaign for dropping fees in kindergartens, which aims to ensure equal access to quality preschool education of children in Bulgaria by dropping fees for kindergartens. The report addresses and systematized issues related to children's rights, their special protection, parental conflicts, family environment, as well as the expectations of the institutions. Complaints and alerts are related to violence and aggression in children's institutions and schools, child molestation, protection of children's rights, victims of crime. The report focuses on issues regarding the protection of children's rights involved in parental conflict. Mrs. Manolova stressed the need for a change to the Family Code to regulate the joint exercise of parental responsibility after divorce or separation of parents unless it is in the child's interest. The importer paid serious attention to the need for mediation to be regulated as a kind of social service that would enable social workers to direct parents to resolve disputes between them. The Ombudsman drew attention to the fact that the justice system is not fully adapted to the rights and needs of children for support and protection. During her exhibition, Mrs. Manolova stressed that it is essential that our country joins the Third Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides an opportunity for an individual complaint in the event of breaches of fundamental rights. People's representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Svetlana Angelova and Sevim Ali took part in the discussion of the Report. They expressed their satisfaction with the presented report and the good work of the institution. With regard to the finding in the Ombudsman's report on the protection of children's rights involved in parental conflict, Mr. Atanasov stressed that the Commission has done serious work. It has formed a working group, which has included representatives of everyone, and I stress that all parliamentary represented political forces, representatives of six ministries and 32 non-governmental organizations. This working group has essentially analysed the legal framework relating to parental responsibility in separation of parents, shared parenthood, compulsory mediation in divorces, the imposition of sanctions for parents who systematically violate the regulations of the child protection authorities and enforcement of judicial decisions. Serious studies have been carried out by analysing European experience. Written proposals for amending legislation in this area are summarised and draft amendments and supplements to the legislative framework are prepared. They will be submitted to the respective departments and to the National Assembly. Mr. Atanasov agreed with the Ombudsman's recommendations on our country's accession to the Third Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has entered into force since 2014, and in this regard he stressed that the Commission will decide at one of the next meetings to hear representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Agency for Child Protection on the actions for Bulgaria's accession to the Third Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Children, as our country is one of the few non-Participants to this Protocol. Ms. Svetlana Angelova expressed her support for the Ombudsman's report and stressed the good teamwork they had with the institution. Mr. Sevim Ali also expressed a positive assessment regarding the report by asking supplementary questions about the national campaign for dropping fees in kindergartens. The Vice-President of the State Agency for Child Protection Ms. Licheva voiced support for the report, taking into account the difficulties in synchronising the efforts of all partners to build and form children's policies. Welcomes the Ombudsman's efforts and support regarding the communication campaign in relation to the draft of the new National Strategy for the Child 2019/ 2030; As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 12 votes for, against and abstentions, there is no proposal from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 839-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. Thank you, Madam President and colleagues, for listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy follows. Dr. Ademov, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u13	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 10 April 2019 discussed and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Maya Manolova, Member of the Republic of Bulgaria, Associate Professor Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman, Hussein Ismail, Head of the Department of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Discrimination, experts from the administration of the Ombudsman, representatives of NGOs. The report was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. It started reporting its activities by presenting the priorities that the Ombudsman and his administration had in 2018, namely: protection of the rights of disabled people, protection of workers' and employees' labour rights, protection of citizens' rights against the abuse of monopolies, protection of children's rights. Mrs. Manolova presented comprehensively all the campaigns that have been organised and conducted over the past year. The report contains information on complaints and alerts received, which are 12 890, as well as on the number of citizens who sought the assistance and received assistance from the 54 exported admissions are organized, 4 mobile receptions are made on trains. The number of final complaints is 12 700. 139 settlements were visited, 30 round tables were made. The report points out that in the years the Ombudsman has established himself as an important factor for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens in Bulgaria. 1989 complaints and signals related to violation of social rights were received in the Disabled Rights Section. The share of those related to social services and personal mobility is the largest, as well as the socio-economic protection of citizens. There has been an increase in the number of complaints on the violation of political and civil rights, the right to an accessible environment and the right to employment. 2018 is an extremely turbulent year for people with disabilities in Bulgaria, marked by the protest actions of people with disabilities, their organizations and families. Considering that the cause of the mothers of children/disabled persons is fair, the Ombudsman throughout the year supports the protesters and places their demands at the top of the institution. The results of the joint actions of the Ombudsman and the representatives of people with disabilities are the adoption of the Law on Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Aid. No less important for the overall reform of policies for people with disabilities is also the adopted Social Services Act. The Ombudsman's recommendations in this area are: to ensure a mechanism to ensure that monthly financial support is already paid within the month for which it is granted; to ensure the correct interpretation and implementation of § 6 and § 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Persons with Disabilities by Social Services, with the new financial support provided by the Social Services, without the application of a declaration to all disabled citizens who are assisted by monthly social integration supplements under the repealed Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and/or with Social Pensions under § 22 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code; to take measures to inform the municipalities of the requirements of § 4, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Personal Aid Act, as people with disabilities continue to receive their necessary assistant support until 1 September 2019 when the granting and financing of personal aid will begin. In the section of the Social Rights (SCI) in 2018 in defence of their social rights citizens seek assistance mainly for payment of wages due, providing social support and receiving financial resources, finding work. In this regard, 1989 complaints were received. The share of complaints and alerts on infringements in the field of labour rights and employment, followed by complaints about infringements of social security and benefits, is the highest. To this group are the complaints about: the failure of judicial decisions to pay wages and benefits from employers; the non-payment of social security contributions in the Ministry of Labour after recovery in the event of wrongful dismissal; incorrect treatment by employees in units of the National Insurance Institute, the National Revenue Agency, the Social Assistance Agency, the Labour Executive Agency; the Employment Agency. In the field of employment, citizens raise issues related to: difficulties in their employment; refusals by employers to hire people with an expert decision of TelK, people of pre-retirement age or lack of experience. The complaints of pensioners who do not have the necessary insurance internship to receive a pension and have difficulty finding a job are particularly disturbing. The employers have refused to hire them except for their age, but also because of their health problems. These people are left without income and health insurance rights. In the past 2018, there are 559 complaints in the field of social security and benefits, with the assistance sought for: recognition of insurance rights for periods in which they have not been provided by their former or current employers or are not declared due to social contributions; refusals to grant unemployment benefits; denied or incorrectly calculated compensation for pregnancy, birth or raising a child up to 2 years of age. As regards the right to pension, as part of the right to social security, 486 complaints and signals were received at the Ombudsman's institution in 2018, most of them mainly related to the low amount of pensions, the limitation of pensions with a maximum threshold, the recalculation of pensions, the updating of pensions in all areas of material and spiritual life at the average European level and others. The report shows that a continuation of pension reform is needed after a broad public discussion. The report contains recommendations from the Ombudsman for: to consider dropping the pension ceiling with the cancellation of Paragraph 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, to consider the possibility of adopting an Old People's Law, to seek mechanisms to speed up the payment procedure for monetary unemployment benefits for people working abroad and others. The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski, Hassan Ademov. They expressed their satisfaction with the report presented and congratulated the Ombudsman on the work well done during the year, on the good interaction with the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, on the good decisions relating to the package of laws for people with disabilities. A recommendation was made by Hasan Ademov to Mrs. Manolova in the event of colossal issues in the field of social policy, before submitting a proposal to the President of the National Assembly, to move on to informal meetings to clear the problems posed. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u14	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We are expecting a representative of the Commission. You have the floor, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u15	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Dear Vice-Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. At its regular meeting held on 11 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman, Mr. Dimitar Bongalov, Director of the Directorate of the National Risk Management Mechanism in the Administration of the Ombudsman, and Mrs. Chonka Kovacheva, Head of the Department of International Standards and Service. The report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova, who pointed out that the trend for increasing complaints and signals from citizens and representatives of organizations is maintained, with their number for 2018 being 12 890, which is 2% more than in 2017. Mrs. Manolova added that the most complaints and alerts have been filed against acts of the monopolies as well as in the public service sector, with their share of 23.34% of the total number of complaints and alerts followed by complaints relating to affected or violated social rights, which are 15.43% and complaints concerning infringement of property rights, which represent 10.05% of the total number of complaints for 2018. Among the main problems are violations of social rights, rights of people with disabilities, as well as the right to education, healthcare and the clean environment. The completed complaint and alert proceedings in 2018 are 12 258 pieces, reducing the tendency for citizens and organisations to address the Ombudsman with requests for intervention and assistance on issues beyond his authority. The total budget of the institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 is BGN 3 029 434 and the expenditure reported is BGN 3 001 025. Mrs. Manolova paid particular attention to the rights of protection of citizens in enforcement proceedings, pointing out that in 2018, there was a tendency to reduce the number of complaints, and added that this was the result of positive changes adopted by the National Assembly in the Civil Procedure Code in 2017, with which citizens' rights in enforcement proceedings were protected to a greater extent. The Public Defender reported as a success the draft personal assistance bill prepared and submitted to the National Assembly and focused on the opinions and proposals for amendments to a number of laws............................................................................. In 2018, the Ombudsman referred to the Constitutional Court with a request for a declaration of unconstitutionality of provisions in the Energy Act and in the Administrative Procedure Code, which violates citizens' rights and freedoms, as well as the Supreme Court of Cassation, requesting the formation of interpretation cases for conflicting caselaw. Mrs. Manolova noted that she has been monitoring the implementation of the human rights protection conventions to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. The report contains findings on the implementation of the judgment decisions against Bulgaria, as well as recommendations to the institutions responsible for taking concrete action. Mrs. Manolova drew attention to the need to refine the rules in the International Commercial Arbitration Act and to establish a mechanism for controlling the awards where the state and municipalities are. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Dessislava Atanasova, Dimitar Lazarov, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev. The MPs welcomed the results of the Ombudsman's work in 2018, discussing the possibility of increasing the Ombudsman's powers to refer to the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation. They united around the need to seek a legal opportunity to control the arbitrage awards when a party to the proceedings is the state and municipalities. Ms. Atanasova congratulated the Ombudsman on her work in 2018 and the humanitarian initiatives implemented. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, with no votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. Next is the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. Which committee will introduce us? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. At its regular meeting held on 10 April 2019, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman, Mrs. Eva Zhecheva, Director of the Department of Child Rights, Ms. Karina Angeleva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Ms. Verzhinia Tsankova, Secretary General of the National Center for Information and Documentation, representatives of NGOs and media. The report on the Ombudsman's activities was presented by the Ombudsman Maya Manolova. She noted that the number of complaints by citizens seeking the assistance of the institution continues to increase. The motto of the institution for the past year is: The most successful campaigns are: the legislation devoted to people with disabilities; the battle for double food standards; justice in the pension system; the campaign to support children left with one or no parents at all. A total of 12,890 complaints, recommendations and proposals were submitted last year. Mediation and good interaction with the institutions has been carried out, which is also the condition that citizens' rights be protected effectively. Mrs. Manolova thanked Mrs. Damyanova and the Committee on Education and Science for good cooperation in relation to various causes: with the Technological School of Electronic Systems and the Bulgarians abroad; the functioning of Sunday schools and the rights of teachers in these schools. Good working together makes it possible to protect people's rights in the field of education and related children's rights. The main problem in pre-school education is the places in children's institutions in Sofia. In separate neighborhoods, such as "Manastirsky meadows" and "Ovcha bought" the shortage of children's institutions is a big problem for parents. The country's complaints are about high fees and additional collection of funds from the parents. The Ombudsman voiced support for the actions of the parliamentary majority and the government for declaring education a national priority, welcomed investment in pedagogical staff, but noted concern about the continuing trend of closure of schools and childcare facilities, of existing problems with the inclusive education of children with special educational needs. In the field of higher education, the Ombudsman institution is most often referred to in connection with the implementation of the amendments to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Milena Damyanova, Stanislav Stanilov, Tanya Petrova. People's representative Milena Damyanova noted that in connection with solving the case with the technological school "Electronic systems" there is no omission in the Law on pre-school and school education. This law does not regulate labor relationships and relationships between rectors and schools that are medium-sized but are created towards higher schools. National Representative Tanya Petrova said that the Ombudsman's Annual Report is well structured in the section "Education" but believes that each area of education should be followed by recommendations. Mrs. Petrova proposed to have an educational ombudsman in some regions of the country. People's representative Stanislav Stanilov said that collecting additional funds from parents is not right, but it is a process that cannot be controlled. After a vote with results: 13 votes for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 950-01-67, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 April 2019............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. You have the floor to introduce us to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Manolova, Dear Mrs. Diana Kovacheva: ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. At its regular meeting held on 11 April 2019, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The annual report on the Ombudsman's activities in 2018 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. According to data from the Report, complaints and signals received in 2018 by citizens and organizations are 12 890, with the number of completed ones being 12 258. The share of complaints and signals 23,34% related to the rights of public service users is the highest, after which the complaints concerning social rights are settled.. 15.43%. With regard to citizens' rights in the field of health, in 2018, the report shows that a total of 607 complaints/signs were received, with an increase compared to the previous year by 23%. The highest number of complaints regarding medical expertise is 120 pieces, the quality of medical care. 90 pieces, access to medical care. 69 pieces, access to medicinal products and medical devices. 47 pieces, health insurance rights. 64 pieces and others. According to the information from the document under consideration, in relation to complaints, inspections have been carried out and recommendations have been made on 388 complaints to the authorities and institutions responsible for solving the problems, of which more than half have been met. There is no indication of the reasons why the remaining half of the recommendations are not implemented or are expected to be implemented in the long term in accordance with art. 22, para. 2, item H of the Law on the Ombudsman. The report's data do not clearly indicate whether the recommendations given cover all or some of the 607 complaints received. Citizens are consulted and advised on the possibilities and approach to find a solution to the problems they have raised, mediation has been provided for their resolution, in accordance with the Ombudsman's Rules of Organisation and Activity. The report describes the issues of citizens' rights in the health sector and sets out the recommendations given to the executive bodies and the National Health Insurance Fund, which, on the one hand, relate to the specific issues under consideration and, on the other hand, relate to conceptual proposals for changes in the organisation and structure of the health insurance system, including the National Health System. It should be noted that the institution of the Ombudsman, as declared in the Constitution....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 91a, advocates the rights and freedoms of citizens, and its powers and activities are governed by law. In this context, the Law on the Ombudsman clearly indicated the powers of the institution, as well as the statutory content of the Annual Activity Report under art. 22, para. 2. In accordance with art. 22, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Law, the Report should contain clear and understandable information about the cases where the Ombudsman's intervention also resulted in cases where his intervention had no effect and the reasons for it. It is important to note the successful finalisation of that part of the recommendations given by the Ombudsman Institution and the responsible introduction to the problem of each individual citizen, group of citizens or organisations. In the discussion of the document, it has repeatedly emerged that the role of the institution is to alert any complaint to it, and solving the problems is very often the result of communication and common activity with the central executive bodies and the relevant competent authorities and institutions. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 939-02-3, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u20	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. I think we're in time. Thank you. This was the report from the Committee on Health. We have thus heard all reports on the project under consideration. I open discussions on the draft decision. In these debates, Mrs. Manolova, you can also participate if you wish to take an attitude in advance and supplement the information we have received in order to avoid expected questions or, more precisely, a timely response. Mrs. Manolova is here, we expect you to introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the Ombudsman Institution's Work Report in 2018. Three hundred and seventy pages is the result of the efforts of nearly 60 people who work in it. There is a great injustice, I realize that the report and the results achieved are a result of the efforts of all these 60 people... their daily efforts from morning to evening, work often seven days a week, and finally achieved successes and results are written in my asset and some people measure my rating, which is not fair. The results should be divided by at least 60 as much as my team is, and to them should be added the efforts and contributions of a number of other bodies, first and foremost they are here in the Parliament, several parliamentary committees with which we work on the main problems of Bulgarian citizens, all parliamentary groups, ministers, mayors, regional governors. Thanks to all these institutions, the problems that are literally pouring into the institution find a solution and this needs to be noted. It's nice and it brings great satisfaction to solving problems for large groups of people. I've been used to enjoy this ever since I sat next to you on the other side of these banks. However, what I have learned about these four years as an ombudsman is to enjoy small victories, solving the specific problems of the individual and really feel happy. I feel very often, as do my colleagues, tired and, unfortunately, recently suspected of career goals. The truth is, I love my job, I do it with energy and all the potential I have. Surely you could work better, have more results, but today I'm here to thank you. Perhaps not to you personally, because trusting to be an ombudsman has given me a previous parliament, but the privilege of working for Bulgarian citizens is indeed a huge privilege. The opportunity to be in a place, on the ground, where their problems are, to literally intercept them. Only a person who is among the people every day, even more so when that is his job, down there on the ground with the people, can judge how far the institutions are sometimes here in the center. Thank you for this opportunity. Yesterday, preparing for the presentation of my work report last year, I once again asked myself the question: what does it mean to be a public defender? What does it mean to protect citizens? When you're supposed to be protecting someone, there's someone else who's attacking them, and that's not true. In fact, what we're doing with my team is smoothing the lufts where legislation squeaks or making paths where administration is completely impenetrable. So last year, along with my team's efforts, we managed to pass 12,890 paths in cases and complaints of 12,890 citizens, and I hope that in most of them we have done well. The numbers that illustrate our work are quite eloquent. We have worked on 12,890 cases - these are complaints and signals that have been specifically submitted to the institution; 36,892 citizens have received assistance from the institution. In fact, these are 36,892 cases, because in a large part of the problems we are talking about many people, large groups of people who are behind a signal or a complaint. We have visited 139 settlements on specific problems of citizens, and in 56 of them we have found foster and we have listened to the problems of people from the respective settlements; 30 round tables and public discussions on topics that directly affect Bulgarian citizens. We have 11 legislative proposals relating to human rights, civil rights; two calls from the Constitutional Court and 13 national campaigns of the Ombudsman institution. All these numbers, which looked at this slide, show growth compared to 2015, when I took up the ombudsman position twice and more than twice, show two things that Bulgarian citizens have many problems, really huge problems and, on the other hand, that Bulgarian citizens have many and huge expectations from the Ombudsman institution. Moreover, we understand with my colleagues, they do not simply expect us to listen to them, comfort them, support them, sympathize with them. They do not expect that we will only and only criticize the work of the institutions. What citizens expect from us and we are aware of this is to propose solutions, not easy solutions, but serious, meaningful, expert solutions to solve any particular problem of one or more citizens. For the development of such decisions we rely on the potential and capacity of the institution, but also on the civic potential of the civil society in Bulgaria. We are working with nearly 300 NGOs, who have the necessary expertise and who are our partners. Thanks to them, thanks to the civil experts, thanks to the Advisory Constitutional Council, which includes large names of lawyers, we manage to work out solutions that are far from populism and which give real and expert ideas and proposals to solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens. I would therefore like to thank today the NGOs, the civil experts, the named lawyers who work and contribute to the expertise of the institution. What we are aiming for, in each of these cases we are dealing with, is to achieve the result of a solution to the problem, a successful finale of a just cause, which many Bulgarian citizens are behind or even solving a particular problem for a particular person. This, ladies and gentlemen, is possible only because of the interaction of the Ombudsman with the institutions. This is the second time I want to thank you. I would like to thank the Committee on Labour and Social Policy personally Mr. Ademov and Mrs. Angelova, with whom we worked tens of hours last year on extremely important causes. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman's portfolio committee in Parliament. This is the Committee on Human Rights, under the leadership of Mr. Velchev; the Commission on Children's Rights; the Legal Commission, traditionally, where a large part of our legislative proposals are discussed; the Committee on Education and Science and the Commission on Interaction with Civil Organizations. Thanks for the good interaction in every particular case and with the other committees, but with the people, with the experts, with the members of these committees, we have worked on many cases and we have worked well, for which I want to thank them. I'm taking this opportunity to thank this tribune and an institution representative who isn't here, but I think it's fair, given the work I'm about to tell you, to start with this gratitude. I want to thank the social minister for who, out of a nightmare, I think, after our work last year, I've become a friend. We have really spent hundreds of hours working on reform for people with disabilities, on drafting laws and what we have done, if not perfect, is quite good. I hope, in the same way, that the relations of the institution with the Health Ministry and the Health Minister will develop from a nightmare to become a partner and a friend to solve the many problems that are currently identified in the health sector and which, notice, are directly related to the rights of Bulgarian citizens in the field of health. The constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens whose solution, whose protection, whose advocacy is my specific commitment. In the way we have arranged the presentation of the Report, the next slide is for the national campaigns that were developed by the institution last year. In addition to the legislation for people with disabilities, this was actually the biggest cause of the institution and the support for the protesting mothers of children with disabilities, but also for all people with disabilities in Bulgaria, which are the most vulnerable group of Bulgarian society, the people who need the most support. This was the cause of the institution, which we have successfully completed together, on which we continue to work, because the real challenges are yet to be implemented both on the implementation of the three laws and on the changes in medical expertise and on the changes that must occur in the provision of medical devices and aids, and on the real introduction of the individual approach, the individual assessment of needs, by supporting each individual with disability. We have a lot of work to do that I hope we can do together this year. Since I ranked the Social Committee first, it is not a coincidence, but thanks to our good work last year, other important causes of the institution were also resolved. The orphan children's campaign, which we started at the end of 2017, with lawyer Zlatina Hadjipanyotova, the mother of three orphan children, and which we finalised here in the Chamber, but with the active participation of the Social Committee. In a fair way, the state has given support to those children who are being punished by fate, while completely excluding the income criterion, something that is happening for the first time in social legislation. The recovery of the withdrawn pension rights of the miners last year, which was also possible thanks to the expertise of the National Insurance Institute, the Social Ministry and, above all, the Social Commission. There is no way today that, after yesterday's decision of the European Parliament, I should not mention the European campaign of the Ombudsman, the cause of the institution for the third year already, for the elimination of the double standards in food, this insulting, humiliating practice for Bulgarian citizens. In fact, this is an insulting practice, I hope that I can already speak in the past, that this was an insulting practice for both Bulgarian citizens and citizens from Eastern Europe and the Baltic countries. I would not be wrong to say that this was an insulting practice for all European citizens, because the division to offer food under the same brand, but with cheaper ingredients, of lower quality, was not a division between the citizens of Eastern Europe and the citizens of Western Europe. This was an opposition and a battle between the citizens of Europe and the interests of large multinational companies. In this battle of citizens against huge economic interests, it is extremely important to note that the European institutions have sided with their citizens. I would say a worthy finale for this European Parliament with yesterday's vote on the ban on double food standards. It is important to note Bulgaria's contribution. The fact is that three years ago, when we started this battle, addressed by Bulgarian mothers who were worried that the mashed potatoes, children's foods, baby milk, baby products in Bulgaria are of worse ingredients and of lower quality and are sold at higher prices. When we started this battle three years ago together, even the Bulgarian institutions did not believe that it was possible to fight. First, they denied the existence of this problem at all, and it was responsible institutions that should be watching for it, and then they just raised their hands and said, well, there's no way we can fight it. These are national tastes, this is a lower standard, these are thousands of other objective reasons. Well, the fact is that we did it and we did it because to the citizens and to the Ombudsman gradually stood the institutions, we gathered all together the MEPs of all colors, MPs of all colors. This is Mrs. Taneva, who was also one of the active people who worked on this cause against double standards. We have sent declarations to the European institutions. We sent letters, organized a forum in Parliament, prepared a petition together with the authorities, with the famous Bulgarians, which we submitted to the European Parliament and in respect of which we were heard and there, I really felt proud to be a representative of Bulgaria because at my hearing in the Committee on Petitions, all Bulgarian MEPs came to the European Parliament, with very few exceptions, everyone spoke and everyone supported. This petition against double standards was accepted by the Committee on Petitions as absolutely justified. It is also important to say, because this success with double standards is a success of Bulgaria, this is a success of the Bulgarian Presidency. The forum the Ombudsman institution organised within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency a year ago on 30 April was dedicated to double standards. It was from this forum that EU Commissioner for Consumer Protection Mrs. Joorova announced that she would make legislative changes to ban double standards. This happened in the Bulgarian Presidency and sounded here from Sofia. This is Bulgaria's victory, which we should be proud of and showed that small Bulgaria can also have great victories on the European stage when we are together, when we are behind a fair cause, when we start on time, when together we go a long way, subject to the national interest and the dignity of Bulgarian citizens. Let's get back to the complaint statistics and drop the tone a little bit. This is a graph that shows how the complaints of citizens have increased over time and it can be seen that, compared to 2005, when I entered, there are twice as many, and compared to 2009, since when this statistics are listed, there are six times more, which really says that people have problems. Yes, citizens have problems with the administration, with the way institutions work, they need an institution that will be one hundred percent on their side in each case. The next slide shows the way the citizens address us. The fact is that Internet complaints are already equal to those who arrive by mail, but personally submitted after a hearing in a foster complaint is now nearly three thousand. Here I have to point out the other direct communication channels. More and more people are texting me on official networks, Facebook, phone calls, which is publicly known. We regularly find hotlines when there is some problem that concerns larger groups of citizens. So people have opportunities for direct communication and direct contact with the Ombudsman institution. The next slide shows the distribution of complaints by type of infringement. And this year, the largest number of complaints by citizens against monopolies, against public service providers, which usually occupies nearly a third of the complaints to the institution. Second are complaints on social rights given the active behavior of the institution of the Ombudsman to solve social and labour problems of Bulgarian citizens. Thirdly, complaints about the violation of property rights related to the structure of the territory are related to environmental problems, which are more and more exciting to Bulgarian citizens. The next slide shows how many of the complaints submitted to the institution have been finalised in a timely manner. It is important to say that in addition to being recipients of complaints, the balance between complaints received and closed complaints is about 100%. That is, everything that arrives at the institution with which citizens address us, we are trying to decide, within the maximum period of two months or three months, if it is a more complex case. The slide on page 13 shows, in addition to the completed checks and case files of citizens last year, which, note, are 12 258 against 12 790 total complaints received, that is, we have managed in one year to finish everything that has been submitted to us. It is also seen the increase in the number of citizens who have been accepted and consulted in the reception room in Sofia and in the exported reception rooms there are nearly 7,000 people. The advice and consultations we've done over the phone are over 12,000. Twelve thousand phoned the one in the reception room either mine or one of my colleagues' phones and received advice. The citizens I personally accepted last year are already more than three thousand in Sofia, but also in all these 137 settlements where we were in a particular problem or with a given reception. Nearly two thousand people have accepted the Deputy Ombudsman Mrs. Kovacheva, who personally accepts citizens in Sofia every Wednesday. This includes the head of the cabinet and also the chief secretary of the institution, who one day of the week have a private reception for the citizens. People expect more than a high degree of expertise, but to be accepted by someone from the institution's management to hear their problem. Not that actions are different depending on whether they're gonna complain to me or an expert. Sometimes the expertise and even most often the expert is higher than my own on the numerous topics the institution deals with, but anyway, personal contact with the management of the institution is important for citizens. We have prepared statistics on how to change the dynamics of complaints submitted by citizens by regions from different areas. I think these numbers will be useful to every MP because they show the situation of the problems of the people in his region. There are details on this topic in the Report. Last year, as a result of the nearly 13,000 complaints and signals received at the institution, we made 1425 recommendations, whether we are 7379 opinions on specific cases and complaints, whether we have 1385 advice from the cases, or whether we have brokered 450 cases. And since I have been asked questions during the discussions in some of the committees why the recommendations are 1500 against nearly 13 thousand complaints, I use the case to clarify that when it comes to uniform complaints, when we have already responded to the first complaints on a common problem of citizens, then it is pointless on each subsequent complaint to write new and new recommendations. If we are talking about regulatory changes or legal irregularities that are damaging citizens by giving concrete proposals to the relevant body or institution, with each subsequent complaint we simply inform the citizen that we have already taken the necessary measures. For example, this is the case with changes in medical expertise during the summer of last year. As a result of the new rules, many people were harmed who received a lower percentage of appearance and disability and a lower percentage of reduced performance. So the recommendations we sent on the first cases were in full effect for each subsequent case that entered the institution. When people in a neighborhood protest, for example, the construction of a park, the construction of a skyscraper or in some region, the cases of air pollution or the construction of a career, there after the initial actions of the initial complaints then we do not have to repeat the same recommendation. But what is important: the analysis shows that two thirds of the recommendations that the Ombudsman sends to the institutions are being resolved, are being implemented, which, compared to last year, is a step forward, because then we reported and the analysis showed that half of the Ombudsman's recommendations are being fully implemented. Now there is a development in this direction. In the reception room, I have already told about it, but it is really a fact that people are looking for personal contact, prefer to come to place their problem, so are the admissions to make it easier for people to come, to personally tell about their woes, and otherwise the institution's reception works every day from 9:00 to 17.30 and in each of these days a representative of the institution's management is in it personally. My day is Thursday, Diana's day is Wednesday, so if there are citizens from your regions who want to visit the institution's reception, this is the information you can give them. We've come to the different topics. I didn't ask Mr. Notev in advance what time I had, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u22	Mrs. Ombudsman, at first, it wasn't a coincidence that I discovered the debates, considering that ten minutes wouldn't be enough for the presentation you've prepared. Those ten minutes are long gone. We accept that you have requested the floor, you have the floor, you are involved in the debate. Here you go. Finish the show.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u23	Thank you. Actually, thank you for your kindness. In the same way they referred to my report and the presidents in the previous years, so I have the setting that I will speak to until I have not seen the House bored at all. [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u24	Don't wait for this moment, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u25	As I have already pointed out, the main priority of the Ombudsman's main cause for last year was the fight for the rights of disabled people. It was indeed an extremely turbulent year for people with disabilities, not only with the protest of the mothers of children with disabilities, but also with all people with disabilities. Thanks to the joint actions with the institutions, two very important laws were adopted last year "The Law for People with Disabilities," the Personal Aid Act, and this year the reform continued with the discussion and adoption of the Social Services Act. In addition to the drafting of these laws, you know that the Personal Aid Act was mainly prepared in its original version by the protesting mothers and by my team, then it was further developed with the participation of the Social Commission, the work on which it was really huge, last summer neither I nor the social minister were on leave. We have spent the entire month of August working on these laws and on reaching a compromise so that, on the one hand, we can fit into the possibilities of the budget and, on the other hand, there is no retreat from fundamental aspects, fundamental rights of people with disabilities. I think at the legislative level, the solution to the problems was satisfactory. We are now challenging the implementation of these laws. I will also note the increase in complaints of disabled people last year, which is 20% growth compared to 2017, and in which these complaints are not only related to the legislative changes in which my team and I actively participated. In fact, the largest number of complaints by disabled people last year were filed on social services issues, accessibility and quality, and personal mobility. Here the accessibility of the environment is also extremely important for the normal lives of disabled people and is an area, an area in which we owe them. Socio-economic protection was also very serious in complaints to the institution. The fact is that individual financial support does not reach these are the most vulnerable people in the Bulgarian society, for which in each next budget more and more sources of funds should be sought, so as to ensure them a decent life. These are topics related to medical devices. We have not been able to clog this hole of a resource drain from public money that the state is spending on people with disabilities, but this is imminent. For aids and medical devices some economic interests are satisfied, some companies win, unfortunately, often on the back of the people who need this support. Problems related to administrative service, statistics and data collection. As a result of the attention we drew to the Register for people with disabilities, serious steps were taken for its better functioning. Now we are actually facing the challenge of implementing these extremely important laws. Here I cannot help but share my concern with the way they began their implementation at the beginning of this year. Instead of the expected more money and more financial support, solving problems as a result of the fact that in January and February the system failed to fit into the new rules in the Law on Persons with Disabilities, there were great disappointments. For example, social support for January came in February, not as people expected it in January. Some of them were forced to submit again and again applications for financial support. There was no proper and comprehensive information about the rights of disabled people to the new legislation. In this regard, we found a hotline on which in three months there were over four thousand calls. We have also been able to explain to more than four thousand people in person what are the changes to these laws that regulate more rights, more support for people with disabilities. There were also problems in the preparation of the regulatory framework. For example, we continue to insist that providing all support for disabled people is a problem that is damaging them. The distribution of financial resources is indeed problems that are yet to be solved. I very much hope that, from 1 September, when the Personal Aid Act comes into force, we will be able to justify the enormous expectations that people have towards the entry into force of this law, to the support that those who need personal assistants will receive. I am taking this opportunity to tell you about an example related to the work and the local administration in a district town. There was a disabled woman, a disabled person, in a wheelchair, who until recently was supported by her husband, remained literally helpless, as her husband died and it turned out that this woman, who could not get out of bed alone, was somewhere on the waiting list for a personal assistant to receive an assistant for at least one, for two hours to continue living. Of course, we went to the spot with my team and we had to explain to the mayor in question for a long time that the problems not only of people with disabilities, at all the problems that are solved through legislation, through the regulations of municipal councils, these problems are for the particular person. And somehow, when there's a poor person who can't move from the bed whose life is threatened because he can't serve himself, you can say, "There are rules, there are people in front of her, there's waiting list, there's nothing I can do! Through non-governmental organizations, through the Ministry of Defence, as it was about a military disability in the face of her deceased husband, we found opportunities to support this woman, but the question she asked was, and I actually went from him to tell this case: "What should I do by September 1st? Are you going to put me in a freezer? " The expectation of this woman is that from September 1st, when the Personal Aid Act comes into force, the problems of such people will be solved. That was the purpose of the Law. And we have to do it. Not only should we leave the Social Ministry alone, the Agency for Social Assistance and the various institutions, representatives of the executive power, but also Parliament, especially the Social Commission, Mrs. Ademov, Mrs. Angelova, all who are on this committee, but to do everything possible to really work in the interests of the people, so that it does not turn out that we have lied to them together. Would you like to speak, Mr. Ademov? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u26	I see the signs from the hall, but you have made a commitment that the hall will be a criterion. I'm not interrupting...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u27	What about the House listens to me, but Mr. Ademov has to go out because he really has a serious commitment and probably wants to make some critical remarks to the institution's work? If it's possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u28	It's your call. If you are finished at the moment, I could then again give you the floor to answer questions after the debate. Indeed, it is your judgment, Mrs Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u29	I will give Mr. Ademov the opportunity, this is the main partner of the Ombudsman, the Social Committee in Parliament, so it is important to me what recommendations and criticisms will be addressed to the institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u30	Thank you for this understanding, and on behalf of Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ademov, let's assume that you asked for the floor and with the help of the Ombudsman you receive it. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for understanding. I would first like to start by trying to be as brief as possible, because these 400 pages of the Ombudsman's 2018 Report can be characterised and presented, both very briefly and very thoroughly. I will try to choose the short version and therefore begin with gratitude for the work in 2018 of the Ombudsman institution with the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. As has already been said, many of the problems that are within the scope of the work of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee are also some of the problems that the Ombudsman institution has been trying to solve all these years. I would first like to say a few general words regarding the Ombudsman's profile, as it is written in the Law on the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is clear that, under this law, the Ombudsman is always on the side of the citizens, listening to the citizens, formulating their demands, identifying the problems, trying through public discussions and by pressure on the institutions to solve the specific problems posed. The recommendation that I have allowed myself to make in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is in relation to when such cases arise, which are from the subject-matter scope of the activities of the Social Committee, after the problems are identified, after proposals have come out of working groups, of public discussion, before the Ombudsman makes use of the law that is written in the Law on the Ombudsman, to present a draft with the President of the National Assembly, to organise informal meetings in the relevant competition committees to feel committed to the issues that are being put in place and to be the natural bridge between the problems of citizens and legislative decisions, so that we do not fall into the delicate situation and the promiscuous sense of competitiveness between the rights of the Ombudsman and the rights of the national representatives for a legislative initiative. What the Ombudsman can do is prepare relevant legislative proposals and submit them under the Law on the Ombudsman to the President of the National Assembly. This, in my opinion, can be mediocre and can be facilitated through discussions in the relevant portfolio committees and there the Members of the National Assembly feel committed to making such proposals accordingly. Does the Ombudsman's rating now irritate all the institutions in Bulgaria, including the MPs? Dear colleagues, the very fact that the Ombudsman's institution is committed to solving ill social problems is placed in a privileged state, because?, behold, she said that two thirds of the proposals to the institutions have ended with a positive end and this puts it in a more favourable situation. There is nothing wrong with this and there is no one to lose because both the institution of the Ombudsman and all the other institutions in Bulgaria work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, so I think that such a problem is more overexposed than real. I would like to say a few words on these ideas and the topics that were discussed in 2018 in the Social Committee. First of all is the theme of what is called modern slavery. You know that a temporary inquiry committee was built to investigate all the circumstances around, generally speaking, the so-called unpaid salaries. As a result of its activities, this committee came up with a proposal for amendments to six laws, extremely pretentious proposals, because it was about the intervention of the Social Committee, for example, in trade law, an extremely pretentious objective. After many consultations and after discussing with experts, lecturers from Sofia University from the Faculty of Law, from non-governmental organizations came to decisions that allowed nearly five thousand people who had not received their salaries from bankrupt enterprises to receive their unpaid salaries........................... BGN, if I am not mistaken the number, not from the Social Ministry, but from the Fund for guaranteeing claims in insolvency of the employer at the National Insurance Institute. This is a success that gives hope that when all these cases are discussed within a serious scope, the decisions are always in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Very discussed were the issues of enabling the General Labour Inspectorate to open insolvency proceedings. This is a revolutionary proposal, which rather has a preventive character and has fulfilled its purpose, because thanks to this text in the Law, a large number of businesses and employers have decided to pay wages instead of remaining debtors to their workers and employees. Next, I would very briefly like to address the problem that arose at the beginning of last year with the retirement of miners in undertakings that are to be closed are either in closure or closed. Despite the huge disputes, despite the feeling of opposition between the different categories of miners, we have adopted a decision that is entirely in the interests of the miners, and I believe that this was a solution in the right direction. And a few words on the subject that aroused the spirits went through sufferings, through protests the topic of people with disabilities. It was extremely turbulent in 2018 with regard to policies for people with disabilities. You know that thanks to all these discussions, thanks to the public pressure, the pressure of the Ombudsman and of all the institutions, the National Assembly with the help of the competent committee and with the help of all the MPs, we adopted both the Laws........................... the Law on People with Disabilities and the Law on Personal Aid. At the beginning of this year, we adopted the third of the Laws package. I hope, together, that the National Assembly, as was said earlier by the Ombudsman and the executive, will control the implementation of the legislation, because this is the second, much more important than having legislation. Next, I would also like to say a few words about what is going on at the moment, the discussion regarding changes in the Regulation on the expertise of workability, namely medical expertise, is extremely important. I am extremely pleased with the fact that the Ministry of Health and Minister Ananiev's team are well-intentioned, together with the organizations of and for people with disabilities, to solve the problem that arose after the Regulation on medical expertise was adopted last August. It is extremely important, honourable Members, to mention that this regulation instead of solving the problems with medical expertise, instead of solving the problems with the so-called fake Telks, what did it do with the new regulation was damaged a large part of the Bulgarian citizens? We absolutely must state: those who violate and make use of false TELEK solutions must be sanctioned accordingly, with all the strictness of the law, but this means that legislation, including the regulation, must in no way deprive citizens who have a real need to support the insurance system in terms of their rights. This is extremely important because in the end, legislation must work in the interests of citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to punish those who try or violate it in practice. Next, I would like to say a few words on the subject that has aroused public opinion, and this is the topic of children's rights - orphans, without the right to a hereditary pension. An extremely important discussion, and I would also like to thank the Members of the National Assembly, I would also like to thank the Finance Minister, the Social Minister, who, together with the Members of the Chamber, at the last moment, have decided: without an income criterion, orphan children can receive support from the state. It is about those who do not have the right to a survivor's pension to receive support from the State under the Family Aid Act for children. This decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly is extremely important, although this 7 million. BGN, which were the subject of the dispute, led to discussions which ultimately, to our joy, led orphan children to receive support from the state, the amount of which each year is determined by the budget of the state social security. I would like to conclude with the exceptional success of the initiative in terms of the double standard of food, which was finalised yesterday, literally in the last European Parliament meeting for its current mandate. I hope that the National Assembly will do everything possible to adopt texts and legislative initiatives to implement this idea, because this idea, dear Mrs. Ombudsman, I address you and Mrs. Kovacheva, has the so-called ruses. This ruse is that the legislative initiative states that it is also about possible compromises that no one can appreciate to date. This is extremely important for Bulgarian legislation to overcome what the European Parliament has offered quite flexiblely, both in the interests of European industrialists and in the interests of European citizens. Thank you once again for your good cooperation. I hope that trust in the Ombudsman institution, confidence in all other institutions, will lead to decisions that will benefit the Bulgarian citizens in the current and subsequent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u32	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Mrs Ombudsman, Dear Mrs Deputy Ombudsman! I'd like to return the subject a little. Once again, I admire Mrs. Manolova and colleagues who have not had the honour to work at the Assembly, to tell you that in budget 2010 - 2011 Mrs. Manolova spoke nine hours and seven minutes, so this is a short presentation on a 400-page report. In fact, I would like to tell my colleagues, including Dr. Ademov, that they have been misled here, which is why I am delighted by Mrs. Manolova on the problems of society and the problems of protecting citizens in the different layers, layers, ethnicities and so on that the item on our agenda is: a report on the Ombudsman's activities and not on the problems of society. Mrs. Ombudsman, I have, first of all, a request for you. Look at the site, you have worthy predecessors. The human institution, peace of mind, Mr. Guinho Ganev, as well as Mr. Konstantin Penchev, who are worthy ombudsmen. There is nothing on the Ombudsman's official website about the history of the institution, or at least I couldn't see it. [[Reply from Ombudsman Maya Manolova.]] If it's there somewhere, it's hidden, and it should be a little bit clearer. Next thing. Your activity is such a.. this is my personal assessment, as was your exhibition here on the protection and presentation of your report...................................................................... It's wonderful, but you're a sufficiently experienced lawyer, as well as Mrs. Deputy Ombudsman, you know that at certain times it can lead to deception. I would like to personally tell you that specifically for the electoral area in which I am elected, I will not mention names, and you have avoided mentioning and personalising problems, there are two people who let you down when you are in the region one is Chairman of NGOs, the other is Mayor of City Hall, which is not good in general, because people know you, and they know the activity of the institution as well as they know them. When these problems are taken out and summarized on the basis of unreliable sources, problems arise for the institution itself. The other thing that's in this relationship. Of course, the law is the law, the Constitution is the Constitution, but the person who runs this institution gives everyone else 60 people an attitude, you said. They're on the site, by the way, and I saw them both by name and by post. It reaches a point where the person who runs the institution can break the very fine line between the extremely good management of the institution and the passage to the border of populism and you mentioned it, the insinuation of any other ambitions outside the field of activity that you are currently occupying. Something else. I've been listening to you. I admit that not everything I've read from the Report is still a lot of pages, but what impressed me in the analytical part is a trend that I think you should look at a little bit more carefully. The Ombudsman, the Ombudsman institution is not the only one who protects people, citizens' rights, groups of citizens and individual rights. Apart from that, it is not directly suggestive, but as an attitude and as a feeling that the other institutions are almost guilty by presumption, and only the Ombudsman fights and defends with breasts, shoulders, hands, knees and whatever we think of there [[crowd cheering, laughing]] poor citizens and disadvantaged groups of citizens. That's not true. You know it very well because you were in other posts, in other places you worked the same way and again in the same interest as we all swear here and, hopefully, the majority of us will work the same way. I would like in the next report, I hope, will be your last for the term of office, but not your last as Ombudsman [[crowd cheering, noise and speech]] , to have a little more analytics, because here we have seen, and the slides if you want to transcend it, there are more facts. Of course, it is difficult, then it will probably be 600 pages, but of these numbers and facts there must be some analysis that will lead us to improving the activities of all institutions, not just the Assembly and the Ombudsman Here I come to the next thing I say to you, I think that your institution, which you are currently leading, should be like the infirmary, the less ill, the better you have done your job, that is to say, the rate of increase in complaints in my opinion is not a good criterion for our society. It is a good criterion, such as trusting the institutions, perhaps that's why you stressed it, and you stressed it now, as an increase in interest in the institution and in the work it is doing, but it is not a good criterion for society as a whole and for the activity for a long time. There is no such story yet, the Ombudsman institution, because when the complaints are reduced to a minimum, it means that we have done all the work at the head of the Ombudsman. I would also like to read a little self-criticism, not so much as faults of the system and the institutions, but something that you have failed to do, because you have hardly managed to do everything. What you and Dr. Ademov said were wronged, yes, we know that. We are constantly trying to narrow the situation of the social network to make it smaller, to be able to cover itself and to affect an increasing number of the people the state protects, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to be able to reduce their number by enabling them to take care of themselves and not the institutions themselves. I would also like to say here something that I should perhaps conclude my speech with. We must not suggest to the people in charge of you that you, with your 60 people, the Social Commission of Dr. Ademov, the Social Ministry and the agencies are the ones who have to take care of it. You set an example with the wife of the deceased military. Most likely, if they don't have families, if they don't have children, if they don't have heirs, we have to take care of them entirely, but then when these people have raised children and grandchildren and complain that they can't go to get bread today, because they're not sending them a helper, it's not quite fair and it's not normal. Thank you and good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines to his statement? Mr. Bikov, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u35	Mrs. President, Mrs. Ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Toshev, a very short line. First of all, you have missed two things - one is to note that Mrs Manolova is very well suited to stay in this place and we hope that someday we will see her there. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] Secondly, we know and here in the parliament we have 78 Bulgarian citizens who are victims of modern slavery and who do not allow them to attend the meetings and cannot exercise their profession, so you can also take this part...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u36	After all, being an MP is not a profession, Mr. Bikov! A little clarification, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u37	My duties, yes. There are good signs, of course. There was an April plenum, there was a dissent of the cult, so we hope that you will participate actively in these processes, otherwise we wish you to continue as vigorously as possible to carry out your duties. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u38	Is there a second line? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u39	Thank you for Mr. Toma Bikov's line. I saw very well where Mrs. Manolova sits, but I didn't want to bother with this topic so we wouldn't open another front for her, she already has enough fronts to fight on. Maybe if she were sitting on that bench, we wouldn't be in this parliament right now working peacefully, quietly, and accepting our laws. These young and older people who are up on the balcony to see that parliament can work politely and culturally, not to act like some people caught up in random places. Especially about what you said about the Ombudsman's activities, I think Mrs. Manolova raised the standard. For colleagues who have not read the Law on the Ombudsman carefully enough, the Parliament, the National Assembly with a secret vote, I would like to highlight the secret vote, elect the Ombudsman and his deputy. [[Reply from Ombudsman Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u40	Apparently.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u41	Oh, yeah? Oh, that's too bad. It was cool when it was a secret ballot, because then it's certain that we preferred Mrs. Maya Manolova, and not some other gentleman or lady. Sorry about that, but it's my pass. The other thing is the mandate and next year I said it quite veiled, but next year will be the last report in this mandate of Mrs. Maya Manolova as Ombudsman. So, colleagues, it's business that counts. In Vidin we tried to elect an ombudsman, however, it did not work. There was a disagreement at the municipal council. Obviously, we have not yet been able to convince people of the need and the correctiveness of the Ombudsman's activities. I hope we can make it through the mayors' next term. Not as much financial costs and losses as the benefits of such a public defender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. A statement has been made by Mr. Petrov, then Associate Professor Lachezar Ivanov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have listened carefully to the part of the report which was presented by Mrs Maya Manolova, and I must say that not only by the Report, but also by her work it becomes clear that she has made a breakthrough in this institution, making it much more dynamic, much more dialogical and should be given what she is doing to her. Another point is that in many ways it is put at the service of the BSP party, and hence things sometimes get less convincing about what it does. I definitely believe that its work should be carried into both the district and other structures of the Ombudsman, and we should consider, as MPs, setting a deadline for the election of the Chief Ombudsman to be elected and the relevant regional representatives. What is happening right now, I suspect, is an organised reluctance to have ombudsmen on the ground. The municipal council can vote five years in a row that it does not want to elect an ombudsman because the Ombudsman will start interfering with his work. What I want to say, however, is related to a problem which, unfortunately, along with all these productions, I use this expression, which was made by some of the representatives of the mothers of children with disabilities, because these were performances and I had the opportunity to observe them every day through the window of our room. In that case, perhaps it would have been fair at some point to have intervened a representative of the Ombudsman when the mothers kept the children in a disadvantaged position really exposed to the sun, exposed to the cold and didn't give a shit about them, because these were actually mothers, I say some of them who had accepted the profession of raising a child as something of their own holy and rather defended this profession than the children with disabilities. Then I made a statement and a parliamentary group chairman apologized on my behalf without asking me if I wanted to apologize. I want to put now, Mrs. Manolova, this particular case of your attention, because it is fracking. A European policy for the removal of children from homes, orphanages is conducted in Bulgaria. This is good and their accommodation in normal homes. For 15 years I have been working on international projects with children with disabilities, working with several centers in Burgas and very actively helping them. That is why my speech, which I have made, I would like to stress it now to you, is very important, because I know the problem, and not just to write ourselves as interesting. It is about those mothers who raise children with disabilities, mothers who have good jobs, who have imposed and suddenly the birth of children with severe disabilities changes their lives, sometimes irreversibly. You'll say: daycare centers. Day centers in Bulgaria have very few... [[People representatives Halil Letifov and Hassan Ademov stand before Maya Manolova]] . I'll wait because they want Mrs. Manolova's attention, and so do I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u44	Keep up the good work, Mr. Petrov. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u45	What do you want me to do? I want her to listen to me because I want to tell her something very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u46	Mrs. Manolova, Mr. Petrov is waiting for your special attention. Go on, though! [[Noise and lines. National Representative Halil Letifov stands before Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u47	Now this gentleman is preventing us from having visual contact. I'm saying you're in the way, Mrs. Manolova can't see me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u48	Get Mr. Petrov's visual contact. Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u49	I want to pay attention to these thousands of mothers...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u50	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u51	...who don't have access to day care centers for disabled children. They live in larger cities where there are no such daily centers. Some have three, four, and some don't have one. Out of 265 municipalities there are hardly more than 30 municipalities, 40 municipalities have daily centers, let's say 50, and in the other 200 municipalities there are no daily centers. Mothers are prisoners, mothers are turned into something that is unacceptable in our society. They themselves are already disadvantaged, even more so in cases when many brave Bulgarian men escape, divorce them and leave them, just like that, of the accident of fate with this child who gave birth to one or two. When this campaign happened, I was called by parents who had two children each and who said: "Mr. Petrov, they are insane, but this is not the way to talk in society. Why did you say that? Children really need caring, but their parents with professions remain underprivileged to something that is an unsolvable problem. He can be resolved in the way I suggested in my speech and for which Mr. Tsvetanov apologized because I proposed it. I suggested for these thousands of mothers who do not have any prospect of receiving daily centers nearby to be organized homes - I repeat, homes, not centers, because the center is something else, and the Bulgarian word is home, where they can leave their children for a certain period of time. Not to be taken away from them, as a rather shallow journalist from bTV said they had to take their children. No, they must be given to these homes so that they can be cared for, and from the very first moment. In that campaign, I received a letter from a House for Mother and Child, which is called a House for Mothers and Children, we call them homes, not centers that supported me and said: Mr. Petrov, here is full of abandoned Gypsies, and the Bulgarians who have such children cannot leave them, and the needs are for these children to start caring from the first day specialists. By starting to speak, including Deputy Minister Rusinova: "Ama, wait up, Petrov, you want to create homes, and we are destroying them." We are talking about quite different institutions, in this case institutions that aim to make the mothers of these children economically active again, because Bulgaria loses thousands of specialists precisely because they have nowhere to leave their children, and these children require daily, hourly, every minute, 24-hour care. We have to think very seriously about this. For example, I'm going to give you a whole group of kids, not kids, any adults with Down syndrome. Bulgaria is the only European country in the European Union that does not have such a centre. We don't have a Down syndrome center for those kids you see on the street, they have a distinctive look, and so on. I won't! This is a shameful thing for Bulgaria a member of the European Union. So I repeat: it is not necessary to leave the pendulum that goes to one end like this. There should also be specialized homes for care of children with disabilities from the first moment of their birth. The other thing is that these children we are now taking out and sending them to foster parents, who in most cases, in most cases, are people who do not have the necessary education and skill to deal with such children, we put them in great danger because children themselves need children like them. For 15 years, I have had such international projects, they need children like them, they need to be with children, not be cared for by families alone and come by a consultant from the municipality once a week. So we need to think about creating centres where these disabled children can communicate and have a social environment. This is extremely important, which we do not do for Bulgaria. The last thing I want to do is focus on minority women. Minority women, Mrs. Manolova, Gypsies, for example, out of 10 gypsies, 9 will not be able to pronounce the word "ombudsman" but what remains to come and write or ask for help from you. They need a lot of help. I don't see who else but you and your units to deal with them, because these women are really disadvantaged. Now I can, the DPS MPs have a job and come out, but I can also say about them for young Turks, girls and young women. I have reports from doctors who come to their mother-in-law or mothers who are middle-aged, and they translate because they don't know the language well. Can you imagine? It has come to this that our Turkish girls do not know the Bulgarian language well and cannot complain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u52	Mr. Petrov, what does this have to do with the Ombudsman's report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u53	The fact that our ethnic minorities are discriminated against and especially the female part of them, and they are not able to address, but they are also afraid, any request to the Ombudsman, is a public problem. You, Mrs. Manolova, can intervene in solving this problem, it is very important to have an equal treatment. In this regard, I think you can do too much for these underprivileged girls and women. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u54	Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u55	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'd like to take a look at the report. Firstly, I would like to thank the Ombudsman Mrs. Manolova, because after 2004, when this institution was legalized in our country, we can say that Mrs. Manolova fully fulfilled this function. Moreover, as a good lawyer and lawyer she actually became a lawyer to all the people who have problems in our country. I believe that over the past year we cannot fail to note that it has actively been involved and has contributed to the people with disabilities and the three bills that had become a fact. Here, too, I would like to mention the active participation in this and the finalisation of yesterday in the European Parliament for double food standards. And last but not least, her active position on mining. So far, I think the eulogy words sound in this room today, but I also want to make some critical remarks, because when a person works, he makes mistakes. Under the Constitution, the Ombudsman advocates the rights and freedoms of citizens. This is recorded in art. 91. All people who are legally and legally literate know that the institution is not a law enforcement and law enforcement body. Colleagues, I would like to stress that in most of the cases when the arguments did not reach the Ombudsman of Bulgaria, these boundaries were transferred. And what is more, we have often witnessed, I would say, and justice by the institution, which I believe is that no matter how proactive it may be, no matter how hard it is to help citizens, it transfers the terms of the law that gives it that right. I would also like to say that this institution does not have a legislative initiative, and very often we have seen that, including in the couloirs of the National Assembly, it was said: I have tabled my bill. That is all I want to stress that this institution does not have such a function. Rights and violations by this institution cannot be restored, it can only be a mediator and an advocate. Something very important, which I would like to say, has been highlighted by Mrs Manolova, that if there is no cooperation, if there is no dialogue between the legislative and executive powers, all the efforts of this institution would remain in the air. I would therefore like to make a request in the next report to be able to see a greater dialogue, a greater dialogue between it, the National Assembly and the executive authority. The dialogue is extremely important and this dialogue must continue with both the citizens and the National Assembly. Something I also think is important. As far as healthcare is concerned, this is an extremely difficult subject, and I think that Mrs Manolova, as a member of the Committee on Health in one of the parliaments, has witnessed how difficult and responsible decisions are made when it comes to human life and decision of human destinies. In its 607 complaints, which it has reported in its report, I will not debrief the complaints, but I will just say and pay attention to you, colleagues, and to everyone who hears that more than two and a half million hospitalizations have taken place in Bulgaria and more than ten million visits. Understand that healthcare is a sector that is changing, it is dynamic and there will always be people who in one degree or another are not satisfied, they have not been able to obtain the competent assistance or the correct expertise. I therefore note in the part of healthcare that in most cases the problems of citizens were not so much the fault of a doctor or a hospital as of the organisation. So I only plead for this in a subsequent report, as far as health protection is concerned, to be more critical and at the same time to see what is being done and in the years how many things have been missed. In conclusion, I would say that the role of the Ombudsman as an advocate of the citizens is extremely important, and that Mrs Manolova works well with all non-governmental organizations, gives an even greater power to be a concealer, but, again, I say, a concealer of the society together with the National Assembly and the executive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u56	Thank you. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? I won't. My fellow Members, I suggest that we take a break, then give our word to Mrs. Manolova's exhibition. Let me make an announcement: on the balcony of the plenary is a Chinese delegation led by the Vice-President of the National Council of the Political Advisory Council of the Chinese people Mr. Zhang Qing Li. [[Applause.]] Let's welcome our guests to Bulgaria and wish them a useful job! [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues, the exhibition "Tradition of Chiprovski karks" will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. We're gonna take a break. We'll continue our work at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u57	We continue with the debates on the discussion report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Are there any speeches? I do not see requests from MPs for a statement on the report. Mrs. Ombudsman, I have made a commitment to give you the word again. Your exhibition has been interrupted. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take advantage of the opportunity given to me by Mr. President Notev in an absolutely fine manner to complete the review of the report on the institution's work last year. I know that most of you have read the report or at least the summary, but anyway, because I have the great respect for parliamentary work, for those who will follow the transcripts of Parliament after years, let it be clear to the stenograms that the Ombudsman has presented his report and that in addition to the social causes he has devoted his efforts and the rights to all the rights of the Bulgarian citizens. So I'm just going to mark. An important part of the work last year was the protection of children's rights. Here I would highlight two national campaigns, one successful for orphan children and the support they should receive from the Bulgarian state, and the other in development is the campaign for dropping fees in kindergartens. I can't help but associate this campaign with some of the problems that have been posed by this platform, namely that kindergartens, kindergartens, children from the earliest age of four and five, are the safest way to learn both Bulgarian for those who are from national minorities and not drop out of school and continue to be educated, so that any investment, whether it is 30 or 60 million. BGN, has its huge return when it is made for preschool preschools. This campaign I very much hope will succeed this year. We will present it to the Finance Minister at the start of the budgetary procedure for next 2019. Complaints according to the type of violations related to children's rights, without spreading, are first of all those related to the family environment, parental conflicts, domestic violence. I would like to draw attention to the Ombudsman's institution and, in particular, to the Commission's efforts on children's rights in Parliament in drafting legislative proposals in the Family Code regulating responsible parenting and shared parenting. I hope that Parliament will have the will to deal with this extremely important topic, which concerns Bulgarian children. These include problems related to child poverty, special protection measures, inclusive education for children with special educational needs, causes to which the work of the Education Committee in the Bulgarian Parliament is also devoted. The Ombudsman's recommendations are given in detail. I am giving an example because there has been criticism here in both directions: that there is no specific information about specific complaints made by citizens or groups of citizens, on the one hand, the criticism that there is not enough analysis. Each of you can read, for example, the part concerning children's rights and make sure that in addition to the detailed analysis of complaints related to children's rights, there is also a very serious analysis of the problems in the legislation, its implementation, the protection system, the measures that need to be taken and the long-term vision that should be put into the attention of the Bulgarian state, including the Child Strategy. Consumer rights are traditionally a big part of my team's efforts. I just want to point out one fact. For the first year, the complaints of the citizens from the water companies are first. I think it's important that you know that as MPs. And this is because of the unfair to Bulgarian citizens reform in the water sector, which was carried out, and especially with regard to the introduction of the single price of water within certain territories. When I see how this reform works, I think everyone will conclude that it is really unfair, especially to the people from small settlements, in remote areas of Sofia, where it is about gravitational water supply, which requires minimal investment, minimum costs to pay people from the noisy villages, as I have been there many times, the price of drinking water, which is higher than that paid to the yellow pavements in the center of Sofia, is really unfair, 3.60 versus 2.20, is really unfair. I have filed a constitutional complaint at the beginning of this year at the single price, but the possibility remains that by reviewing the legislation, you might consider whether it is not possible, within the framework of the reform adopted, to cancel this provision for the single price of water within one territory. There is huge discontent, many complaints, whole settlements, whole villages protest not only in Shumensko, in Plevensko, in Pernishko I am not going to tell about the complaints against heating companies, energy distribution companies, mobile operators, as the situation has not changed significantly in relation to the report from last year. We also have our achievements, for example, reducing the court cases that Heat Consulting brings against its clients, especially because it is realized that when it comes to small amounts, the better option is to inform customers instead of being charged with additional legal fees, expertise, legal fees. We also have our successes in terms of changes in the general conditions of electricity supply companies. We have made our proposals under the Ordinance, which refers to the so-called common distribution on floor property with regard to the supply of drinking water and the payment of its price. This is to be developed and done in regulations this year. I use to point out that I rely on the Legal Commission to put the work on the proposals I have submitted, which have been recognized by lawmakers of different colours by the Legal Commission to limit the superpowers of the banks, to be placed on the table as soon as possible and to work out texts that will discipline the banks on the one hand, to try to re-inquire them in terms of their high regard for customers and Bulgarian citizens, on the other hand, to give people who are tired of the financial slavery they have found themselves in. Here I should also mention the quick loans, which are my next cause.. abuse, circumvention of the law, which leads to the destruction of the life and the future of tens of thousands of Bulgarian families. And here, of course, is the upcoming work of parliament under the Private Failure Act, I hope. I am waiting for proposals aimed at limiting the superpowers of the banks to be finalised and I will present to the members of the Legal Committee my proposals on civil insolvency. I hope there is still something we can do good for the Bulgarian citizens on the most neural topics for them in the coming months. The part "social rights" was wonderfully presented by the Chairman of the Social Commission. I am aware of the confusion that has occurred in part of you that, you see, the Chairman of the Social Committee is doing an analysis of the problems of Bulgarian citizens in the sector of social rights........................... These are our causes from last year, which Mr. Ademov perfectly analyzed, and the cause of justice in the retirement of the miners, and orphan children, and modern slavery with the campaign against the insolent employers, which gave its results. Five thousand people received their remuneration of 8 million. lv. There was no justification for the fears that we would fail the Guarantee Fund. Thank God there's over 150 million. lv. On the other hand, 5000 Bulgarians received justice for being paid by the Fund for Guarantee of Claims. I thank the General Labour Inspectorate and the National Insurance Institute, who are also very reliable partners of the Ombudsman, and which is more important, as a result of these changes, of the power we have given together to the General Labour Inspectorate to initiate a procedure for insolvency of companies that have not paid their salaries, over 100 companies, according to the Labour Inspection, have paid their late wages. The idea was not to cover the debts of bold employers, but to be disciplined and forced, first, to pay the workers, then to invest or spend money on all sorts of other things. I'm not gonna talk about social security causes, about pensions. At the end of last year we warned that the change in the formula will lead to tension among Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, we were right. I heard from Mr. Ademov that you will correct this within the next few weeks. There are indeed concerns among the people who are about to retire and the decision that is being proposed...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u59	Tomorrow!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u60	Ah, tomorrow's great! It's really good, and it'll bring relief. Right to education. We discussed these issues in the Education Committee in detail. I have heard the expert opinion and recommendations of colleagues from this committee, so I will not present it to the plenary. Almost the same is true of health problems. I'd like to make a statement. I also tried to explain it during the Health Committee meeting. Six hundred and seven complaints in the sector is not small! There are no 607 people behind these 607 complaints against the backdrop of seven million Bulgarians who are patients of the health system, these 607 complaints concern tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. I can give dozens of examples: the hospital in Vratsa, a complaint behind which are hundreds of medical professionals and doctors, tens of thousands of citizens of Vratsa, who rely on this hospital, or the complaints of patient organizations about the absence of any medicine for rare diseases, or the problems of dialysis in Vidin, or the problems of medical professionals with low remunerations, a complaint behind which thousands of people stand! And it is good when there is really an interaction when the problems are solved so that this basic constitutional right of Bulgarian citizens of accessible, quality and timely healthcare can be implemented. With regard to complaints in the field of property and economic freedom, I will only allow myself to draw your attention to the high activity of citizens related to environmental problems. People are getting more and more excited about the environment they live in and their children. Therefore are complaints against careers, mines, pollution of the environment, soils, pollution of water, dirty air, fine dust particles in the air in Sofia and other major cities, reconstruction, construction of grasses, skyscrapers. These are more and more topics that excite Bulgarian citizens, and they make their petitions, signatures. Only last week have I been in several neural points: in Plovdiv the attempt to build a park, the attempt to build on one of the hills in Plovdiv. People react and need someone who will go on the ground and support their efforts with relevant recommendations and opinions to the institutions. I will no longer abuse your patience. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] Of course, we have our commitments to protect citizens from discrimination and hate speech. We protect prisoners in prison. There's a National Preventive Mechanism. We are making our proposals to the Constitutional Court and to the Supreme Courts for interpretive decisions. For several years, we have had a special section to monitor the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, a detailed analysis that would be of interest to the Legal Commission. We monitor the implementation of international acts of all three UN conventions to which Bulgaria is a country. We have our international activity. I have already told the Ombudsman about the cause of double standards. The other thing I have to point out, and that concludes, is the establishment of a Balkan network of ombudsmen at a forum in Sofia at the end of last year, to which I invited and attended colleagues from the Balkan countries. A network of ombudsmen was set up for rapid communication and interaction in solving cross-border problems or problems of Bulgarian citizens occurring on the territory of another country. This is the presentation of my report. I would like to thank you at the end of the report, because several times I thanked various institutions and civil society, to extend my gratitude to the media, because no cause of the Ombudsman would have been successful and fully realised without the support and assistance of the media, which, as well as the Ombudsman, have their commitments to reflect the battles of citizens in defence of their rights, and here we are followers. I can't help but answer the questions asked.............................................................................. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you for your good words! I love to hear praises, I will not hide it, but at the same time I tolerate criticism and I am grateful for the recommendations made to the work of the institution, some of which have their reasons. Yes, it is a fact that the institutions, perhaps the parties, at some point the work of the Ombudsman and his team seems subjective. It seems that in different situations we have taken sides in advance. This is very often the case because, by definition, the Ombudsman is on the side of the citizens and has a fundamental commitment to defend the citizens. The Ombudsman has no commitment to praise authority. The Ombudsman has a commitment to protect the citizens! On the other hand, I think it is good for the institutions when there is an institution that is dedicated only seven days a week to Bulgarian citizens. This creates some hope that there is still one last instance to which they can turn. I appeal to you not to be irritated by the approval, the trust of the citizens, because it is enshrined in the Constitution! It's under the law! I am on the side of citizens, I am working as much energy as possible to protect their interests and it is clear that the results that the institution provokes and implements with other institutions are positive and capital of this institution. I can accept a lot of criticism, but there are a few accusations I can't pass up and I will definitely react to. I deny and refuse to accept any insinuations made by this parliamentary tribune, or any other public tribune, that there is even a hint of partyity in the work of the institution. I think we have shown with our work that we are absolutely impartial, that we have worked on causes that are presented to the institution of people of absolutely different colors from the right side of the spectrum to the left. For us, for me, for Mrs. Kovacheva, for the people who work at the institution, the problems of the citizens have no color. And I think that's the fair treatment. I think that from this principle of absolute transparency, impartiality and subparity, we have never given in, so I cannot agree with such suspicions. I also believe in Mr. Hristov's speech, and I am obliged to react that such statements from the parliamentary platform are unacceptable! I stand and it is clear to the whole Bulgarian society that I stood with the mothers of children with disabilities from the first day of their cause for reform of the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u61	Who's Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u62	Peter Hristov Petrov. [[Noise and lines: "Peter Petrov. "]] I'm sorry. My fellow Members, I believe that such qualifications and such claims from the parliamentary platform should not be overlooked without being criticised. It is unacceptable to talk in such a way about children with disabilities and their problems. As Ombudsman, I am responsible for the most vulnerable. I also do not accept this way of expressing it in relation to national minorities, neither the Roma minority nor the Turkish minority. [[Noise and lines.]] In my face, minorities in Bulgaria have their defender, their lawyer, so I can't help but react to such statements. Once again, thank you for your attention, for your kindness, for your criticism! They were good for me and my team. [[Applause.]] Thank you for giving me the opportunity to remember what things look like in this parliamentary tribune within an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any other statements? Mr. Angelov and Mr. Honest Vesselinoff. Mr. Angelov was first. [[Noise and lines.]] We are in the debate phase. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u64	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you when Members of Parliament speak, and to the Ombudsman, including, make remarks when no terms related to the Bulgarian Constitution are used. With all due respect to Mrs. Manolova and the work she has been doing in recent years, I cannot agree, and I think that you, as President of the National Assembly, should say that minorities in Bulgaria do not have a Constitution. There are communities and there are no minorities. It is not normal for a person who is the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria to use terms that contradict the Bulgarian Constitution, because in this way it is given to different and foreign and Bulgarian NGOs to claim that there are minorities in Bulgaria and to want the recognition of such organizations. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u65	Your note is justified, Mr. Angelov, as regards the term and its legal basis. Mr. Vesselinoff, do you have a wish? No. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. We are about to vote on item four of our weekly programme - Decision on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 We are now going to vote on the draft decision that has been read. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The proposed decision has been adopted. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like you to put to the vote a procedure for extending the deadline for submitting proposals between the first and second reading of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act by one week.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u67	Let's assume we're done with the previous point. Congratulations, Mrs. Manolova, on the vote and the support you received from the House. Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Veselinov's proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act adopted in the first vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal to extend the period between the two readings has been accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program: PROJECT OF THE HIGH Military SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOL-SCHOOLING DECISION. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019 Mr Popov, Chairman of the Defence Committee, please introduce us to the Commission Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I request a procedure for access to the chamber of the Chief of Defense General Andrey Botsev and to the Commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u69	We are voting on the proposal for admission to this House. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Mr. General, at the beginning of your presentation I suggest you introduce us to the Draft Decision, then to the Report of the Commission you led. Thus, for everyone in this House, it will be clear what we are discussing and what we are about to vote on. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u70	Project! DECISION on the opening of a military school under the name of the High School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 16, p. Art. 8, Art. 93, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 94, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He opened a military high school called the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski. 2. The Higher School of Staff is a structure of direct subjugation of the Minister of Defence, a state military school based in the town of Dolna Mitropolia, and has its own flag, stamp and holiday. 3. The subject of the activity of the Higher School of Airs includes: (a) training of students and servicemen for the acquisition of higher education of the educational and qualification degree of the Bachelor's degree in the professional field of military work in the field of higher education, Security and Defence, in the specialties of the regulated profession, as well as in the specialties of higher education, social, business and legal sciences, technical sciences and security and defence; (b) training of students in the acquisition of higher education of the educational and qualification degrees of Bachelor's degree and Master's degree in accredited professional directions from the fields of higher education. (c) training for the acquisition of higher education of educational and scientific degrees. (d) training to improve qualification; (e) specialised training, acquisition of qualification and professional training of servicemen, civilians, employees from other ministries and offices and of citizens under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (f) carrying out research and innovation activities and applied research; (g) the development of research, publishing, sports, cultural and business activities related to the main activity of the Higher School of Research and the realization of its research results and other intellectual property sites; (h) other activities provided for by law in an act of the Council of Ministers or awarded by the Minister of Defence. 4. The real estate and movable property for the provision of the activities of the Higher School of Air are provided under the terms and conditions of the State Property Act. 5. Georgy Benkovski's Higher School of Air, which forms, accepts, changes, implements and reports a budget. 6. In the revenue section of the budget of the Higher School of Air "Georgi (a) transfers from the state budget; (b) financial assistance from municipalities; (c) donations, wills, inheritances, sponsorship; (d) own revenue under art. 90, para. 3, p. 4 of the Law on Higher Education; (e) income according to art. 90, para. 3, p. 5 of the Law on Higher Education. 7. Georgy Benkovski's high school includes in its structure: command, main, service and administrative units. 8. The General Assembly, the Academic Council and the Chief of Staff are the management bodies of the Higher School of Staff. 9. The rules on the structure and operation of the Higher School of Air are issued by the Minister of Defence. 10. The Academic Council is proposing to the Minister of Defence through the Head of the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" for validation: (a) the Staff Schedule of the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski"; (b) the support official schedule of the Higher School of Staff for civil servants at the expense of their own revenue; (c) decisions on the opening, transformation and closure of departments, departments, scientific sections, administrative and service units; (d) the training plans for the specialities of the professional field "Military case', in agreement with the Minister of Education and Science; (e) the qualification characteristics of the specialties of the professional field of military work. 11. The head of the Higher School of Airs is a military officer who may also be a habilitated person. He shall be appointed and dismissed under the terms and conditions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its powers shall not be terminated with the expiry of the term of office of the General Assembly. 12. The Head of the Higher School of the Air, Georgy Benkovski, exercises the powers of Rector under the Higher Education Act. 13. The Minister of Defence shall present to the Minister of Education and Science for the submission to the Council of Ministers of the proposal for approval by an act of the Council of Ministers in accordance with its competence in the number of accepted for training at the Higher School of Higher Staff. 14. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, shall present to the Minister of Education and Science for submission to the Council of Ministers a proposal to confirm: (a) the number of students and PhD students accepted for training at the Higher School of Air. 9, para. 3, p. 6 of the Law on Higher Education; (b) the amount of the fees for applying and training of students and PhD students under the letter 15. The Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher School of Air, George Benkovski, opens procedures for the occupation by the servicemen of: (a) free academic positions at the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and the additional requirements for their occupation are laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria; b) Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Master Instructor and Senior Instructor at the Higher School of Education, Georgy Benkovski, under conditions and in order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence. 16. The Minister of Defence or an official authorised by him on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher School of Staff, Georgi Benkovski: (a) appoints academic positions at the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski. Servicemen under the terms and conditions of the legislation in force; (b) appoints servicemen to the posts of a professor, a senior teacher, a instructor and a senior instructor at the Higher School of Education... Georgi Benkovski. under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Minister of Defence; (c) Releases soldiers from academic positions at the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, in cases under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Law on Higher Education. 17. Minister of Defence, on a proposal from the Academic Council, submitted by the Head of the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski: (a) approves topics for regular and background PhD at the Higher School of Staff at Georgy Benkovski. (b) open procedures for the admission of regular and additional PhD students at the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" in the framework of the number established by the Act of the Council of Ministers under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Rules on the Structure and Activity of the Higher School of Staff "Georgi Benkovski"; (c) charge for training persons admitted as regular and completed PhD students under point (b); (d) appoints servicemen and civilian officers at the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, to PhD students in independent training. 18. He closed the Faculty of Aviation in the structure of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and his activities went to the Faculty of Aviation in the structure of the Higher School of Staff. 19. The work with the civil servants of the Faculty of Aviation and the National Military University of Vasil Levski is carried out at the Higher School of Research under the conditions of art. 123 of the Labor Code. 20. The soldiers from the Faculty of Military Affairs of the National Military University of Vasil Levski are serving at the Higher School of Staff of Georgy Benkovski and the positions they hold at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. 21. Students, servicemen, students and PhD students who are studying at the Faculty of Education at the National Military University "Vasil Levski" at the time of the entry into force of the decision, continue their studies at the Higher School of Education "Georgi Benkovski" in the specialties under the terms and conditions in which they were adopted. 22. The documentation relating to the training of the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 21 at the Faculty of Aviation from the National Military University of Vasil Levski is transferred to the Higher School of Staff. 23. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2020 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. General. That was the draft decision. It is assigned to two committees "the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Education and Science. Reports were received from both committees. Are you going to brief us on the Commission report you are conducting? We'll hear the Defense Committee report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u72	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a draft decision of the National Assembly on the opening of a higher military school called the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, No 902-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019. During a meeting of the Defence Committee held on 17 April 2019 a draft decision of the National Assembly was discussed for the opening of a higher military school called the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" No 902-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019. Deputy Minister Atanas Zapreyanov, Commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov and Vanya Denevska Secretary took part in the meeting. Angelina Lambreva took part from the Ministry of Education and Science and Director of the Ministry of Education and Yordanka Petrova. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, People's Representative Konstantin Popov, noted that the draft decision was submitted by the Council of Ministers and was assigned to the Defence Committee and to the Education and Science Committee, stressed that the Higher Air School will prepare highly qualified and competitive specialists for the needs of civil aviation and air forces in national, regional and international terms. Restoring the air school is particularly important now that a new type of combat plane is about to be accepted into arms. The draft decision was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov. The proposal is based on a project presented by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education and Science, which is assessed positively by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. The project envisions the Higher School of Air "Georgi Benkovski" to be a state higher military school, which is established on the basis of the faculty "Aviation" by the structure of the National Military University "Vasil Levski." The main motive for the opening of an independent higher air school is the growing need to change the model for preparing specialist staff meeting the current requirements. The requirements for the implementation of new weapons and fighting equipment systems will be met and a number of problems will be solved to obtain quality aviation education. Pilots will also receive a certificate for civil aviation and training for civil aviation in Bulgaria and for foreign consumers. Conditions will be created to finance the training by national and foreign consumers. The division of higher aviation education and vocational training will be overcome. The establishment of the Higher Air School is in line with national and Union requirements and will meet what will be set out in the Programme for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces 2020. Ms. Angelina Lambreva added that the Ministry of Education and Science supports the Project, which opens a new state university, which will meet the increased requirements in three areas of higher education and four professional directions. Training in seven doctoral programs is also envisaged. The opportunity for students to be transferred from the National Military University and to continue their education under the same curricula is arranged. It is important that the faculty will meet the requirements of the Higher Education Act and will meet the three-year period for obtaining and institutional accreditation. In the subsequent discussions the people representative Vladimir Toshev congratulated the Air Force with the restoration of a tradition in the rich history of Bulgarian aviation and recommended to use the rich experience of the Higher Naval School. Expressed readiness to support the formation of the budget and policies of the new military school. People's representative Emil Hristov supported the project and raised the question whether the provisions of the draft decision are sufficient to protect the interests of the students and the teaching staff, and whether the number of persons and budgets are sufficient. National Representative Plamen Manushev stressed that the application of the positive experience of the Higher Naval School will require serious efforts and a long period of time. Supports the Project and believes that pilots should be trained in an aviation environment. People's representative Valentin Radev said the closure of the Higher Air School in 2002 was a mistake. Supports the reasons for his recovery. In response to the questions asked, Mrs. Lambreva assured that the provisions of § 21 are sufficient to protect the interests of the students. The Decision also provides for the interests of the faculty to be protected. With regard to the habilitated persons, the project meets the requirements of the Higher Education Act. Deputy Minister Zaprianov added that it is envisaged that the maintenance of the new Higher Air School will be about 4.5 million. lv. 16 million has already been allocated. lv. for the development of the material base of the National Military University, part of which is also for the Faculty of Aviation. On the basis of the discussion held and the proposal made with 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u73	Thank you, General Popov. We are about to get acquainted with the Committee on Education and Science report. You have the floor, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision for the opening of a higher military school called the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, No 902-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 April 2019, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above-mentioned project. The meeting was attended by Assoc. Prof. Petar Nikolov Deputy Minister of Education and Science, General Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister of Defence, Professor Petya Kabakchieva Chairman of the National Agency for Assessment and Accreditation, and Major General Tsanko Stoykov Commander of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The new university is established on the basis of the Faculty of Aviation in the structure of the National Military University Vasil Levski. He is the successor of the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, which existed until 2002, when it was transformed due to organizational and structural reforms in the Bulgarian Army. The main motive for the opening of an independent air school is the growing need to change the model for the preparation of specialist personnel meeting the modern requirements of the Air Force and aviation. The project of a decision for the opening of the University of Higher School of Education is intended to include two main departments of the Faculty of Aviation and Department of Natural and Humanities, as well as three centers: Center for Educational and Innovation Projects, Center for International Cooperation and Center for postgraduate qualification. It is envisaged in the two main units of the university to teach 45 habilitated and 35 unhabilitated persons, ensuring compliance with the requirements of art. 26, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 26a of the Law on Higher Education. The capacity defined by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency includes 770 seats in the qualification degree of Bachelor and 140 in the Master's degree of qualification. By the decision of the National Assembly for the opening of the Higher School of Air and Aviation of the National Military University Georgy Benkovski, the terms and conditions under which students, servicemen, students and PhD students of the current Faculty of Aviation and Military University Vasil Levski will continue and complete their studies in the new university under the same curriculum and specialties. The Deputy Minister of Education and Science, the Chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency and the Commander of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria expressed their views in support of the draft decision. The discussion included MPs Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Sergey Kichikov, Stanislav Stanilov and Tanya Petrova. They noted that the decision restored a good educational tradition for the successful preparation of highly qualified personnel for military and civil aviation and wished for the highest quality of training. After the discussion was completed and a vote was held with results: the draft decision for the opening of a higher military school called the Higher School of Education, No 902-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. I open the discussions on the draft decision on the opening of a higher military school called the Higher School of Air. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Popov. [[Radio.]] There's a sergeant, it's a military matter, but another general gives a sign. You'll all have a chance. [[Radio.]] Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u76	Honourable Minister, honourable Members, gentlemen Generals! You know, maybe not all of them, but at least those who participated in the discussions that we have repeatedly raised the question in the Defence Committee, had questions with the minister, followed the work of restoring the air school and I think we agreed there. I would like to take this opportunity here to thank everyone who participated in this process. Many people have been thinking for a long time, weighing and it has really come to this point when we are looking at the project submitted by the Council of Ministers to the Chamber. I would like to thank them for their work, to thank the Minister of Education, the Minister of Defence and, of course, I would also like to thank Prime Minister Borisov, who really saw the need to restore the Air School and with his determination we were able to reach this point. Why Bulgaria deserves to have an air school? Maybe a little emotional, but here is the place to say that there is something at stake in the Bulgarian gene, there is something at stake that is evident from our history. Bulgarian aviation has a truly glorious history, glorious traditions. We were the first to use the plane as a means of fighting at the European theatre of fighting, we created schools, schools, we went through difficult times, we closed them down and we found them again. The two of our cosmonauts have graduated from the High Air School. There was created a science that connects our homeland with astronautics, but most importantly there were trained and raised thousands of people who connected their fate with Bulgarian aviation. With the reconstruction of the Air School we signal the future, the future of the Bulgarian aviation. It is, of course, mostly related to the acquisition of a new type of combat plane, but also to the preparation of footage that will serve not only the new type of combat plane, but also the technique that is in the Air Force. This means more literacy, security and higher flight safety. With the reconstruction of the Air Force School, we also find the door to prepare personnel for civil aviation, and we know that in the world, both in the region and in Bulgaria, there is a great hunger for aviation personnel, which are for civil aviation. I think we have a further goal: we have and have proved that we are a brand, that we have trained and raised people who are from other countries and students, and civilians, and indeed the further goal is also related to the training of citizens from foreign countries who can also acquire a high-class specialty in order to be realized in the future. All of this, of course, has financial dimensions, and I believe that, according to the model of the Naval School, really the Air School, except that it will give perspective, except that it will give a future, except that it will give high training, except that it will deal with high technology, will also be economically justified. I'd go on for a long time, I just want to finish a shortcut, it's a strategic solution! This is a strategic decision that we are about to take because aviation is high technology. High technology is the future and in high technology is the added value and high technology without education is unthinkable to achieve. That is why we want and will support such a decision to create a High Air School that will educate and educate which is related to high technology that will look to the future. We will support this decision! Of course, we wish success to the Ministry of Defense, to the Defense Headquarters, to the Air Force and to the Air Force School. We have no doubt that they will do everything they can to make this first step a success, because in this area success is needed. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u77	Thank you, General Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Toshev called for a statement. I have recorded the requests of Admiral Manushev, General Simeonov and Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Minister, gentlemen generals! A very good day for the Bulgarian Parliament! I will continue with what General Popov finished today we are making a strategic move, which is in response to a strategic mistake that we had committed, in particular, our predecessors, when they closed the Air School in 2002. In the long run, why is what we are doing right today? There are a lot of historical reasons that are clear, I'll mention them in a moment, there are military policies, there are purely emotional ones. In historical terms, I would like to remind my colleagues who are outside the sphere that, as early as 1914, an aviation school was established that trained pilots for our combat aviation. This school in 1915 was transformed into Aviation, namely, an Aeroplan school, then, in 1928, in Sofia was established an Air Force School, which in 1948 moved to Lower Metropolitan and existed until 2002 under the name of Georgy Benkovski with an extremely rich biography, with extremely good specialists. Our colleagues here are two four-star generals - they will hardly mention it, but I would like to say that these are two commanders of our Air Force - General Simeonov and General Popov - and President Rumen Radev is the commander of our Air Force. [[Heckling]] I'm saying they were both chiefs of staff. So emotionally, we have no reason to doubt the correctness of this move. General Popov before me mentioned the first use of aviation in combat. This happened, just to remind you a little more, on October 15, 1912, in the Balkan War, when aviation was tasked with carrying out reconnaissance over the Adrianople, the two pilots dropped bombs from the plane with which they scouted the Karaagach railway station. So much for the story. I would like to continue the debate or those that we commented on yesterday in the Defence Committee. The air school that we're now setting up, which should start in the fall, there's no time. Yesterday we also spoke with General Stoykov that Vice Admiral Manushev mentioned that it took a long time to meet the standards of the Naval School. Why the Navy standards? Because, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to remind you when elite Bulgarian schools in October are recruiting in the fifth or 15th campaign to complete their numbers, for last year at the Naval School for one place there are seven candidates. Seven people! So this is a standard that needs to be quickly reached by the Air Force School, and it can be done, because experience we have, good practice we have, we just need to enjoy the good practices that are introduced there, both as a standard, both as a basis, as a practice, and as a relationship with NATO and non-NATO states. The second thing I would like to mention is that finances need to be developed in order to survive economically and develop economically, which is important for everything that is happening today in the modern world. The Air Force School should not only recruit from Bulgaria, and not only military, it should also recruit civilian students from the surrounding countries, we should become a training centre for the new F-16 aircraft. It's not difficult. We have the experience, we have the specialists. Here I would also like to say one more thing that is very important: gentlemen generals, Mr Minister, habilitate your own professors. One of the great pains of our higher education in general is that every higher education does not have its own habilitated personnel. Habilitate them quickly, prepare them, because amongst the students, teachers should be prepared. To have good students, there must be extremely good teachers. I would also like to make a request to the Commission yesterday, and I will say it now to enter into the protocol................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no need to take foreign specialists to develop their own base. I'm an alumni of Shumen School. History and tradition show that a wonderful base can develop, to build wonderful specialists both for the civilian and for our combat aviation on its own. Don't hit Shumen schools, because you won't get good results. Finally, I would like to mention that, as soon as we vote, we give pride to our Air Force, the Bulgarian Army, the armed forces and the whole of Bulgaria! Let's all be proud of this move we're about to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines? I can't see. It's Mr. Popovski's next speech. Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Today we are making a move to bring about an injustice committed by 2002 at the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkowski, the town of Dolna Mitropolia, Pleven District. In addition to being denied the status of an independent university at the time, he became a Faculty of Detergent Functions. Civil aviation was taken away as training and only military pilots and ground engineers remained. What we are doing today in the framework of this term of parliament under the directive of Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov and colleagues of the Military Commission is that we are returning the status of the Higher Air School and we hope that in perspective it will become a strategic training centre on the Balkan Peninsula, as well as on the Balkan Peninsula, which we are seeking. You know that we are one of the important countries in NATO's Southeastern flank, and I remember the years of my childhood when Pleven also trained a lot of foreign students for military pilots from those then friendly countries of Syria, Yemen, Libya and everywhere. I hope that in perspective there will also be other than Bulgarian and foreign students, the status of this higher education institution will develop on an international scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Are there any lines? If there isn't, there's a word for it from General Simeonov. Come on in, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, Mr. General and Mr. Lieutenant General! A lot of things have been said by the talkers. I will try to say just a few extras, because I agree absolutely with everything that has been said so far. Indeed, in the action that was done in 2002, there was practically some purpose, there was some purpose, but the result was not achieved, because the idea was for a National Military University. The university in Veliko Tarnovo now has the name of the National Military University. It is not national. It is the University of Land Troops, of the Air Force that is the truth, and the Naval School remains as an independent unit in which there is nothing wrong. But this half decision was reached thanks to various moods, lobbies and conjuncture in Bulgarian society. Of course, the experience of the past 17 years shows that in the case of good management and desire for development the results are not late and the concrete example is with the Naval School. We know what state it is and when there is a desire for development and, of course, the purposelessness of the entire composition and, of course, of the management, things happen. During this period, many opportunities for the development of aviation were missed. It was also said that civil aviation was lost and the training of civil aviation was also lost a very important specialty of military air traffic management. My fellow Members, with the return and creation of the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski. Of course, before the generals and all responsible people in this direction, it must be clear that it will take an extremely serious and hard work to bring back the old things so that we can overcome the lag and catch up to the goals that we have missed during these periods. Indeed, the Air Force School trained pilots and aviation specialists, leaders of military air traffic management on many continents, not only in Europe,.... in Asia, Africa, Central America. There is something very interesting and important which, over the years, I, too, as commander of the Air Force and subsequently as chief of defense, I suppose General Popov also had the same problems, and it is not the first time that this process has happened to restore military school, but so far there have always been opposing countries and there has always been a certain group of people or a certain person to torpedo things. Now many people's efforts have been crowned as a result of this experience for 17 years. As has been said, thanks to the country's prime minister, to his determination, there will be an Air Force School, for which as a former alumni of the Air School and as a pilot, I thank him. I will give an additional few pros that Bulgaria can extract by restoring these preparations. We had an idea to set up a NATO pilot training centre, because, you know, the preparation of a pilot goes through different stages. The idea was to use our domestic planes as a training stage on a domestic plane. The plane is extremely modern and corresponds even to the new types of aircraft that are armed in NATO to adapt the pilot faster to all navigation systems on the plane and all the equipment on the aircraft. I am giving you an example because the Republic of Poland is following a firmer, more independent position and defending its objectives and tasks. At the Air School in the town of Demblen, they managed with study and jet planes, which they have enough to conquer and to lead the preparation of NATO flight crew in initial training with R &amp; D planes. This, honourable colleagues and friends, will bring many positives. In addition to the positives, the name and opportunities of the Bulgarian aviation and the Bulgarian army will be restored, the return of the personnel to the Bulgarian army and Bulgarian aviation, but will also contribute to increasing the authority of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian army. Last but not least, it will bring financial success to the Ministry of Defense. This, Minister, should be considered by you as an extra feather, if things are going well enough, to be able to use these things. The reconstruction of the Air Force School is the most faithful and correct way to provide pilots and aviation specialists. At the moment, I am making a detour, not only from the army, but also in civil aviation, the hunger is extremely high and the issue of hiring foreign pilots. Why? Here, we are constantly talking about the demographic collapse and how our Bulgarian youth and citizens are going abroad. Well, why don't we prepare our pilots so they can stay here and do their job and professional work? In this way we will retain more jobs in the country for Bulgarians and stop the turnover to abroad. In the Commission, we supported and in plenary we will support the proposal to restore the Air Force School.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u83	Thank you, Mr. General. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Admiral Manushev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. General, Chief of Defense, Mr. General, Commander of the Air Force! First of all, I declare that I have no conflict of interest, because two generals inside have been very affected by what is happening. Indeed, for 17 years, Georgy Benkovski High School was not on the map, and there was a Faculty of Research at the National Military University. Was it right, was it wrong, rather, in my opinion, that decision was wrong, but better later than later. Seventeen years is a lot to lose not only to the preparation, but to lose the spirit of the flyer, because the flyers are special to me. There are two blue elements that are very close and that is why we have always respected aviation, although we also respect the valorable Land Forces, but the blue is the sea and the blue is the sky. That is why the sailors and the air force feel so close. The motives were well said.. indeed the example of the High Naval School is very good. If in those 17 years there was a high air school, I'm sure it would be something similar to the high naval school. In this institution, everyone who had anything to do with flying or anything that flew and prepared for it would be preparing for this school. I am convinced that both preparation and certificates would be given, for small planes and for stewardesses and for everything that the High Naval School does, and there would probably be a lot of foreign students and students in this school. I mean, that's why I took the floor that it wouldn't be easy at all to achieve that. The example of the High Naval School will require great effort and therefore I call on the command, the military leadership of our army, the commander of the Air Force to select the right person. It is extremely important who will take the lead of this institution in order to make it one, but not just to remain on the book of the Higher School of Air. It will take a great deal of work and years of labor from everyone who works there to do all the work we're talking about here, and the Air Force School to start preparing footage for our air force, for our army, for our business life and for foreigners. It's gonna take some real hard work! I most sincerely wish the pilots this thing and I want to wish them a good wind, not a lot of underwater stones. For many years in our history, the largest air formation was in the fleet, the seaside station in Chaika. There are years when there were the most planes belonging to the fleet. We are extremely interested in this thing having it, having a high air school, improving the preparation of our pilots. You know, at sea, we rely only on aviation to protect us, because ships, no matter how big they are, are defenseless when they're away at sea if there's no air cover. That's why it's the wind of the High Air School! Forward and upward! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Admiral. Are there any willing to take part in the speech? I give the floor to Mr. Panchev, a member of parliament who is not due to parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u86	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen generals, dear colleagues! One short-sighted solution in 2002, perhaps influenced if I followed what Admiral Manushev said, blue is the sea, blue is the sky. The blue breeze most likely affected the NDSV and in 2002 took this decision to close one of the good schools in Bulgaria, one of the schools with a good perspective. Evidence of this is the Naval School, which is pride for our education, pride for the people who have passed through it and work around the world. There are now over 2500 students in this school, one fifth of whom are foreigners and among them 135 students; 70 cadets who are trained and are well-adopted not only in Bulgaria but everywhere in the world. It was the same with Bulgarian pilots who studied in Lower Metropolitan and brought the glory of Bulgarian military pilots, Bulgarian civil pilots and service personnel. There is a need for both the Bulgarian Army and our civil aviation to prepare our own personnel, to pass on our experience. We have a good name in Africa, in Latin America, in the Arab world, in Asia. This school with a good management, for which I would like to tell the Minister, the Air Force leadership, is good to be from a man who will work with enthusiasm to develop the school, not a senior chief who will command and wait for the execution of his commands. It's going to be a tough time for the school's Ministry to work is quite short. It is good to find good specialists, habilitated specialists, to rely not only on the military, but also on civilian lecturers, so that we can have a promising military school. I sincerely wish success to the future leadership, to the people who will work there and to those who will be trained! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. We will now hear the speech of the MP Valentin Radev. Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Generals! We've talked enough about something important we're doing right now. I'll pay attention to a few things. In the beginning, I would say that the education in the air field dates back to 1914. It starts in Sofia, Bozhurishte, at the Aeroplan school and reaches the faculty we are talking about as part of the National Military University. Is this a 2002 mistake, a blue wave or something? [[speaking indistinctly]] ... I didn't say that on the committee. I said I don't know, but it probably turned out to be a mistake. I'll give you two numbers. In 1990 there are 30 universities in Bulgaria, now there are perhaps 54 and we are two million less. I did a check and it turned out that in other countries universities are almost as much as in our country in Greece, Romania, Belgium, that is to say, they are not shrinking. Even if we're going by Denmark's standard, we should have 95 universities. In this sense, we, the military, Mr. Minister, have always been disciplined. When the NDSV came, then BSP, triple coalition, nobody did anything. We were the first to reduce our universities to our higher schools, and we said that from three to one in Shumen, and in Veliko Tarnovo became a university and air went to it. I mean, I think we've had too much discipline, like the pendulum. Now it's like we're doing the opposite and going to the other extreme. The government of GERB is making a great effort at the moment, together with the United Patriarchs. We make the decisions because we hear people. Many others before us made such round tables, all sorts of things. GERB "We come to power, we continue to be in power with the United Patriarchs and we make a decision and restore the school. A bold decision has been made here some things have been said. I'll mention that there are quite a few underwater stones, something has been lost in those years of experience, traditions, habilitated individuals, there is no such thing as Lower Metropolis, not Sofia. Restoration is a great concern of the government and personally of the minister who runs the Ministry of Defence. Good for those who made this decision and took this step along with the Prime Minister! I saw that the heart responded to that idea. The efforts will remain to restore that, if, then, the year 2002, such a mistake has been made. I call on all my fellow Members who are in the Chamber of Defence and the opposition in the face of the DPS, I do not see Mareshki's colleagues, to support fully and unanimously, as in the Defence Committee, the decision on the restoration of the Higher School of Research in Lower Metropolitan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any requests for other speeches? I won't. In the hall are the commander of the Air Force and the chief of defense. Mr. Minister, if you wish... [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov gives a sign that he will speak after the vote.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. There's a really important vote coming up. Dear Members of Parliament, we will vote on a draft decision with the text that you were familiar with by the Chairman of the Defence Committee at the beginning of his statement. I'm not going to recreate the whole text. It's being transferred to the transcript of today's session. We are voting on a draft decision for the opening of a Higher Military School called the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski, No 902-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 April 2019. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. [[Applause.]] The decision to open a Higher Military School called the Higher School of Airs is adopted. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, fellow Members. Dear General Botsev, Chief of Defense, Honorable General Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force! Today really is a good day for the glorious Bulgarian army. A mistake made 17 years ago was restored with today's decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. If you think about it, you'll see that these 17 years are repeated once again in the history of our aviation. After the Neucoup Treaty, when Bulgaria was punished by the winning forces not to have aviation, it closed its Aviation School. Exactly 17 years later.... in 1936, it was restored, and in 1940 it grew into an Air Force School. Of course, we can talk about this for a very long time, although it makes no sense today is a good day. How did it happen that without being defeated, we destroyed our Air Force School ourselves?! There's really no point talking about it today! The fact is that this is upright with today's parliament decision. The fact is that once again we are giving birth to one of our higher military schools, which has its tradition, which has raised hundreds, I would say, thousands of footage that were good pilots here I will mention both astronauts, including not few people in this room. We give the opportunity to those young Bulgarians who want to devote themselves to the aviation profession, whether in the ranks of combat aviation, or in the ranks of civil aviation, to receive their education here in Bulgaria, because those who wanted to become pilots had to look for other opportunities. Some went to study abroad as well. We now give the opportunity to all Bulgarians who wish to study the aviation profession, which is extremely prestigious in the uniform of the Bulgarian Army and in the civil sector, to be able to receive this decent education here. It was very rightly noted: in the field of military education we have an extremely good example and this example is our Naval School. From this tribune I would like to thank you, I have always done this in public by Admiral Mednikarov, who is an extremely good head of a prestigious educational establishment in Europe where foreign students from dozens of countries are trained, not just for the framework of these 54 educational institutions in Bulgaria, as Mr. Radev mentioned. Given the prestige of the aviation profession, I believe that, with an appropriate leadership of the future Air School, we can repeat this bright example, having also the practice in Varna, this thing can be developed. Indeed today is a good day for Bulgarian aviation, literally a few days after we celebrated 40 years of the first Bulgarian cosmonaut. In this order of thinking I want to reassure some of my colleagues, as we Bulgarians in an old habit, even when something good happens, we wonder where the bad is, I want to reassure everyone that the restoration of the Higher School of Air at Georghi Benkovskis in Lower Metropolitan and the change of the status of the Faculty at the Higher School will not be at the expense of the University of War in Tarnovo and its Faculty in Shumen. No way! On the contrary, we have ideas for the Faculty. Not only do we have no intention in any way of moving people or taking their lecturers, but to help them develop them, so that these doubts or concerns are baseless in some cases and political speculations by people who prefer to speak to the media rather than to sit in the room and debate. We have no such intention! On the contrary, I have always been a centurion for reconstructing the military service, and when that happens soon, because that is already the case in Europe, we will also have to rebuild the High Artillery School in Shumen. That too is inevitable! But one step at a time, one step at a time. Therefore, if you'll allow me, I would like to thank the parliament that has confirmed this decision, and I would also like to thank the Prime Minister. This is a topic on which, as one of the negotiators has said, efforts have been made for at least 10 years, roundtables, forums, commented, are insisted, but for one reason or another this has not happened. If it wasn't for the Prime Minister's decisive intervention to take this right and national responsible position, perhaps we would continue to work further and we would miss this school year, so in this case his merit is clear. Thanks also to the Ministry of Education. I cannot fail to mention the help of the Defence Committee in the face of its President General Popov and all the other members, because, when it came to this issue, there were different opinions in the Defence Committee whether and how it could happen better, but there was never an opinion that it would not happen even from parties that were opposed to re-arming the Bulgarian Army. Today we are witnessing a good moment in which the state shows that we not only devote the necessary resources to modernize our army, but we are also thinking about the prospect of training quality personnel for our military aviation. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you very much and wish you all a pleasant job! [[Lowered applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-18.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congratulations to the guests - the Commander of the Air Force, the Chief of Defence, the Minister, the members of the Defence Committee and the MPs who supported this decision. Honourable Members, I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on tomorrow: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Polina Tsankova-Hristova; Plamen Manushev; and Gemma Grozdanova. 2. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will respond to two questions from the MPs Irena Dimova; and Alexander Ivanov. 3. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Daniela Saveklieva. 4. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova and Daniela Saveklieva. 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Alexander Matsurev. On the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, a delay in questioning by seven days has requested the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov at a question by the MPs Atanas Tashkov, Zapreyan Yankov and Kiril Kalfin. In the absence of a Member of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - a question from the MP Hristo Gajev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva. Due to previous commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov and the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. For health reasons, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. With this, we have exhausted the agenda for today's meeting. The next regular meeting on 19 April 2019, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
