ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear Members, for today's first item, we have voted: TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Retire from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 28 March 2019. Point one for today. We have received an application from the National Representative Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, MP from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovo: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected from the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I'm closing the debate. I will read you the draft decision that we will vote on: "Project" DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov as a Member of Parliament from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovski. Please, voting mode. Vote 131 MPs: 121 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL PROCEEDING CODEX. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u2	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. At its meeting held on 27 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. Mrs. Daniela Belchina, Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D., Ph.D. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev, who pointed out that it aims to seek a balance between the interests of creditors and debtors in the ordering proceedings and the introduction of an official check for the existence of unfair clauses in contracts with consumers. He added that at the end of January 2019 the European Commission informed Bulgaria that it should take measures to remedy the caselaw contrary to European Union law in relation to the lack of the possibility of judicial examination of claims based on unfair clauses in contracts with consumers. Mr. Mitev noted that the Bill will ensure better protection of the debtor against abuses of the economically stronger party, creating an obligation for the court to carry out a formal inspection in the ordering proceedings concerning the existence of unfair clauses. An extension of the time limits for submitting an objection to an enforcement order and of a private complaint against an order of immediate execution shall be envisaged. The draft law contains an additional requirement for applicants in the ordering procedure to submit to the court the contract from which their claim arises, together with all its annexes, including the applicable general conditions. It is also proposed that, where the debtor is not found at the permanent address and is notified by glue, the proceedings should not lead automatically to a claim but to enable the debtor to object at a later stage. The Draft Law also amended the Law on Consumer Protection in order to align its provisions introducing the requirements of Directive 93/13/EEC in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of the Directive. On the bill were received opinions from: the Commission for Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Economy, CEZ Bulgaria Mrs. Manolova expressed support for the submitted bill, specifying that the proposals are justified and imperative. It called on the Members of the National Assembly to support the proposals which guarantee debtors' rights by suspending the execution in the event of an objection submitted by them and added that the proceedings in force and the transition to a finding claim when notifying the debtor by glue should be refined. The Ministry of Justice pointed out that the Bill should strictly and accurately respond to the European Commission report, providing for changes which would oblige the court to monitor, in turn, unfair terms in consumer contracts and to extend the time limits within which objections may be made. Mrs Belchina pointed out that the automatic suspension of execution when submitting an objection is not in the interest of the debtors and will increase the debt and costs. By the Consistency Foundation and the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Lawyer Filipova and lawyer Voleva added that the Civil Procedure Code should provide for the possibility of suspension of execution when the claim has not been confirmed by the court in action. Ms. Martseva clarified that the bill provides for changes that will affect not only banks, but all business operators and in support of the bill it is possible for judicial protection to pass into legal proceedings, which is more expensive and slower. Lawyer Gigova pointed out that the Bulgarian court should monitor unfair clauses, but added that the suspension of the implementation in the case of opposition will lead to insolvency proceedings of commercial companies, as this will be the consequence of non-collection of obligations within the time limit. Judge Kalcheva analysed the submitted bill and pointed out that at the moment the court is not able to assess the existence of unfair clauses because the applicant is not obliged to submit a contract and documents proving the claim and added that the legislative initiative is timely. It clarified that it was important to provide for the possibility to suspend enforcement at any time in the event of an objection submitted by a consumer. Judge Angelov and Judge Savov expressed a positive opinion regarding the bill. People's representatives Hristian Mitev and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion, who pointed out that this bill was a continuation of the recent changes in the ordering procedure and sought a balance between the interests of creditors and debtors, expressing their opinion on the need to correct some of the texts. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Next is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, which will introduce us to Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. At its regular meeting on 27 March 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. The bill was presented by Ms. Anna Alexandrova. The reasons for the present draft note that the rules in force of the ordering procedure under the Civil Procedure Code do not give the courts the opportunity to control and establish unfair clauses in contracts with consumers. The debtor is placed in a less favourable position vis-à-vis the economically stronger country because the legislation creates privileged services for banks, monopoly companies, service providers, mobile operators, fast-credit companies and those for recovery of claims in the light of the simplified procedures in which they collect their claims. In this sense, it is also the opinion of the European Commission, which, on 24 January 2019, informs the Republic of Bulgaria that it accepts the current caselaw in which orders for execution and orders for immediate execution are issued without the court having the opportunity to verify whether they certify claims based on unfair clauses in contracts with consumers contrary to European Union law. It is also noted that the protection of the debtor should also be contained in the right to object to the enforcement order, indicating that the legislator provides for a reasonable period of time that does not discourage the use of its rights. The European Commission provides a two-month period for Bulgaria to take measures to remedy the problem. The amendments proposed in the Bill provide for an extension of the time limits for the submission of an objection by the debtor against the enforcement order issued, as well as a private complaint by the debtor against the order for immediate execution, in order to ensure an adequate opportunity for response by the debtor. The amendment is in line with the European Commission's guidelines for overcoming the existing risk, given the particularly short period of time for opposition, that the relevant users fail to benefit from this legal option in defence of their rights. The importers point out that the aim of the bill is to seek a balanced approach between the interests of debtors and creditors for economical, rapid and effective legal proceedings to ensure the maximum protection of each Party. For this purpose, options of proposals have been proposed, relying on a set of information and organisational measures to overcome the deficiencies identified so far in the rules of the ordering procedure. The adoption of the bill does not lead to the need for additional budgetary resources and will not lead to the need for changes in the budget of the Ministry of Economy, the Consumer Protection Commission and other law enforcement authorities. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. This was the Commission's report on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Other reports from other parliamentary committees have not been received under the bill under consideration. You're welcome to speak on behalf of an importer, Mr. Kirilov. As Chairman of the Legal Commission, I feel that we have already heard Mr. Kirilov's opinion, but let's hear it again. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov, as an importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament in the Legal Committee Report was quite detailed by a meaningful party this legislative proposal of ours. I will use the words of an importer only to provide the following details. Indeed, we have a letter from the European Commissioner for Justice, Mrs. Vera Joorova, informing us of the initiation of a procedure in respect of consumer rights, and we had a two-month period for reply and opinion of this letter - notification, which expired on 20 March this year, i.e. a few days ago. The legislative initiative aims to continue the balancing of the rights of the disputed parties in the enforcement and enforcement proceedings. The Legal Commission, and I in particular, disagree with much of the allegations in the letter of the EU Justice Commissioner, because it is inspired by complaints arising from Bulgaria and which seek to align the consumer's status with the debtor's status at all. It is in the interest of civil turnover to have balancing the rights of debtors, but also the rights of creditors, otherwise there will be no commercial turnover, no lending, no investment process in our country and in our economy. This bill presents two opinions. One opinion you see as Option 1, this is on the proposal of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the second one is the opinion of the working group of the Ministry of Justice, which you see as Option 2. Option 2 is definitely more balanced and more equal to the countries in this particular production, including for the most part it is agreed with institutions and with agreed organisations. Personally, in the procedure from now on, I would prefer Option 2. My appeal to you, on my behalf and on behalf of the importers, is because we have united many members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and we are contributors to this bill, to support Option 2 in the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are going to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. I'm opening the debate. Anyone? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will also call on you to support the Bill at first reading. It is in fact a continuation of the efforts that this Chamber of the National Assembly made at the very beginning of the first year to restore the balance in the executive proceedings in the civil process. Since this balance was violated in the adoption of the Code in 2007, and practically not only in order to respond to the request of the European Commission, the letter that was made, but also to prevent the possible initiation of a criminal procedure, but also in practice to continue what we started in the first year. This bill has been proposed to your attention. The colleagues who presented the bill in the reports of the committees and Mr. Kirilov as an importer described its content. The purpose is to effectively protect the weaker party in consumer disputes, to protect the citizen from possible unfair clauses in contracts, by requiring the court to verify those contracts in the orderable proceedings, as well as the creditor requesting enforcement to present those contracts in order to enable judgment to be made by the court. Indeed, when enforcement proceedings are changed and reformed, the executive process must bear in mind that there must be a balance between the interests of the debtor and the creditor and not be reached, as before the 2017 amendments. supposed protection of the creditor, but not to go to excessive protection of the debtor, especially when it comes to trade turnover. As a matter of fact, it should be handled very carefully, especially with regard to the change of art. 420, even if we are at first reading, this must be made clear right now. There is no way, in my opinion, that we can practically go towards a complete abolition, depreciation of the order procedure with a total ban on carrying out enforcement actions in opposition to an enforcement order, especially when it comes to relations between traders. Where one of the parties is a natural person, yes, it is usually the weaker party to the proceedings when it is not a trader. But when it comes to traders, we must in no case allow it to open the door, abuse of rights, and from there to block not only the trade turnover, but also an increase in inter-company debt, which is no longer low. We must not prevent the resolution of this problem, we must not increase this inter-company debt by rules that do not account for this balance in the relationship between a creditor and a debtor. I call on you to support the Bill at first reading and appeal accordingly for a working group to be set up so that the opinions submitted by different organisations and judges between first and second reading on the Bill can be taken into account and that the best balanced solution can be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I don't see any references to Mr. Mitev's statement. Any other statements on the bill under discussion? Are there any MPs willing to speak on the bill? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted and, with this and the first vote, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. Dear Members of Parliament, we will continue our work at 11:00 with the second point of the hearing of the Minister of Culture. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u10	Colleagues, we're starting work. I'll read you a message: On the basis of art. 14, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been notified to the President of the National Assembly: On 29 March 2019 the General Assembly of the Political Party Group GERB voted changes in the leadership of the parliamentary group as follows: She elected Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova as chairman of the political party GERB parliamentary group on the grounds of art. 14, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please reflect the changes in the register of the National Assembly. Krasimir Velchev Vice-President of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Good luck to Dr. Daritkova! [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's continue with: THE HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF THE CULTURE Boil Banov ON STATE SUPPORT IN THE FIRE OF ARTS. Importer is the People's Representative Diana Savateva. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Culture Mr. Boyl Banov on state support in the field of arts. Dear Mrs. Sawateva, please come in for a presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! When we talk about the achievements in the field of art, we all put talent first, because without talent we can't talk about complete theatres, talk about colorful fidelity, talk about good film productions. Along with this, we all realize that even the brightest talent is helpless if it is not created the necessary environment for development and the necessary conditions for it to unfold. When we talk about conditions for development of talents, naturally the leading role of state institutions and, first of all, the Ministry of Culture. For its part, the successful work of the Ministry of Culture is related to the budget at its disposal, as well as its proper distribution and direction of funds to the spheres where best and most beneficial results will be taken into account. I will allow myself to recall several figures related to the Ministry's 2019 budget. They were commented when the State Budget Act was discussed, but are important in relation to today's hearing, Mr. Minister. During this year, a double increase of funds was provided to support creative projects in the field of performing arts; with a 100% increase we are talking about another sphere of library funds and book publishing. With a million and a half, about 12% more money for film production. As I said, these are figures that are known and have been commented. In connection with today's hearing, Minister, we expect to hear a little more and more detailed information about the distribution and absorption of the so-called amounts, which are about 20 million. lv. more, I am talking about the general budgetary framework of the Ministry compared with 2018. As we all see, in recent years the theatres have been full, but along with this we must realize that this is not a constant. The picture that currently exists is the result of actions and processes that have happened in recent years. In order to retain this level of development, especially of the performing arts, efforts are needed mainly in creating and raising an audience that will enter the halls tomorrow. Therefore, as magnificent as we have artists, their achievements will remain unappreciated if we do not prepare the respective audience. In this plan I expect to hear, Minister, what action does the Ministry take in this direction to create, educate, raise a well-prepared audience? Of course, it is important how to work with young artists, because besides an audience, tomorrow the stage must be sufficiently prepared performers. Your work is related to specialized national schools of arts, performing arts and music, of course, which are located in several district cities. I'm guessing we'll get some information about working with them at the hearing as well. I am convinced that not only for me, but also for all colleagues who are representatives of the regions, it is particularly important to achieve the balance in the distribution and absorption of the funds for culture and art between the capital and the regions. It's no coincidence that I don't say province, because in the regions, art is also created at a very high level. I am convinced that the Ministry of Culture is also working in this direction for the regions to also receive the necessary care. And yet another detail of art in its full diversity should not be closed within a national framework. The last point I expect to get an answer to is: what does the Ministry of Culture do to make the results of our artists visible abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u12	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, I've been prepared to recite something here, but I'd rather talk to you, because it's not all in the numbers. The details are ultimately in the policies, in our desire to do something about the Bulgarian culture and, in particular, about the Bulgarian arts, which extends far in time and at the same time to have its real practical applications at every moment of our existence. You are right, the state is taking visible care of culture and arts, especially clearly expressed in the last few years. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Every year, the budget is raised specifically by the Ministry of Culture. Separate budget increases for subsidised Chitalishtes, last year, separate budgets of municipalities. In relation to these increased policies of the Ministry of Culture are the following huge emphasis in programs and projects. Since last year's increase, I will only say that half a million budgets have been increased in our Directorates of Program Projects............................................................................................. This is a clear trend. The National Fund received a half million increase last year as well. For reference, to find out how important what is happening is, I will say that until two years ago, the Fund of Culture was working with a sum of less than 400,000. lv. He is currently working with a sum of 1 million. 400,000. lv. That is, this million really goes to Bulgarian artists, to Bulgarian artists, including the last part of what you did as an exposé and about the opportunity to travel outside, to show their art and not only among Bulgarian communities, but also to serious countries that have proven themselves in the field of arts. The help of the state is enormous in terms of performing arts. Theatres, operas, Philharmonics, symphonys. Every year for several years, millions have been allocated to the performing arts, and it is not some self-image, it is dictated on the basis of their results, which fortunately only go up. I will just say that over two million viewers last year had our theatres, operas, Philharmonics and symphonys, which for a country like Bulgaria is very serious, I assure you. The Ministry of Culture has done perhaps in the years as best as possible in terms of preserving values in culture and arts, in performing arts. We have managed to preserve a huge part of the network created in the years, within a socialist model, with very saturated locality, by regions, the presence of institutes related to music and theatre. At the same time, we were able to impose delegated budgets, which allowed for more sustainable storage of structures, and for development, creatively, financially, made it possible to present the potential of the Bulgarian artist. That didn't go unopposed. We are currently at a stage where the positives of these actions are clearly visible. There's confidence in the system, there's forecastability, there's more and more viewers, which means we're on the right track. It was easy to destroy the previous model. Maybe it was easier. Maybe it was easier not to make delegated budgets and stay on the scheme 30 years ago, but everyone before me and I took our steps. At the moment, I can say that really in the field of performing arts development is seriously balanced and with a view to the future. You are all from different regions and I would like to stress that here the policy of the Ministry of Culture is very clear. There are places that are more distant, bordering, where it is harder to make serious art, there are places where financial problems are being tested, but the Ministry of Culture fully supports these institutes. Nowhere! Since it's been me and my team, we haven't allowed for accounting calculations in one way or another to vibrate the work of the institute. Our support for our creative support is complete and comprehensive. Yes, we methodically try to help, we try to move forward and in these institutes, we do not stop their creative projects in any way, because we believe that this is the only way for an institute to have to have in time or in space sustainable and for a long time ahead. I can guarantee you that. During what I have started through the increased funds for programmes and projects, this is actually our serious support, sustainable over time. These increases will continue for the non-governmental sector in the field of performing arts, for festivals for both major and smaller local but key to the local community. This policy is clearly expressed. I am an outstanding supporter of the hypothesis to more and more opportunity through projects, through ideas, to be able to finance performing arts. I have an understanding in the government and therefore I say that these policies will continue to develop steadily, and people feel them far away not only in Sofia, but everywhere. We make no distinction between Sofia and the rest of the country. Many things can be said more, but in order not to be very wordy, and then I will answer your questions, I will switch to museums and galleries, which also work in a sustainable model of delegated budgets achieved a few years ago. It enables development, enables reinvesting, gives an opportunity to look into the future, preserving the past. We have 50 small municipal museums left that don't work on these budgets. Our goal is ultimately to join them into the delegated budget system, so that they can prove their essence, even if they are in smaller settlements. Because tradition, culture and history can't be divided into small and large, everything is important, everything is key. In terms of cinema. For the first time last year, in a few years, with 1.5 million. lv. increase the budget for cinema. He's already crossed the 15-million-dollar line. lv., which has never been reached. We have an extremely serious ambition to help. Cinema is a huge industry. The development of cinema production throughout the world is at an extraordinary pace, and we have huge talents in this area as well. Among other things, we also have such nature and such landmarks that allow and are an attractive center here of productions from all over the world to come and shoot. So this trend will continue. I have something very important to say here. We have remained the last country in Europe that has not accepted the so-called tax reliefs for foreign productions that come to film on its territory. We are working with a serious working group and we will offer a version of the government, respectively, to you afterwards, these tax reliefs for foreign productions must be implemented in our legislation. The last countries to adopt them last year are Greece and Romania. Macedonia has them, Croatia has them, Hungary has them, Poland has them, Serbia has them, and everyone wants to film them here. Our country simply offers unique conditions for filming. So we have to develop this model. We have the assurance, in fact, of the world's largest company in the field of cinema production that, when these tax benefits are accepted, they are now located in Hungary, for some or other reasons they will come out of there, one of our options, and it is crucial that they come here to Bulgaria. If we manage to do this and happen, it is a qualitatively huge leap in the development of film industry in the country and in the region. This means that here will be their center of Netflix, for Europe. It's an extraordinary thing. Of course, here we have also commented on these tax benefits in the government, when we make a serious model and it is supported by everyone, to combine with a more serious investment in home film production, in the National Film Centre in order to preserve identity, to preserve the possibility that Bulgarian filmmakers can adequately go out against the outside, in order not to do so, for God's sake, any sinking of our identity in the sphere. So we're thinking from all directions. I believe that the development of cinema will undergo a qualitative leap in the next few years. But I say again, the most important foundation for this thing is the talent of our artists.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u14	Thank you, dear Minister, for your comprehensive response. We move on to questions on behalf of the parliamentary groups. From the parliamentary group of GERB, come in, dear Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is: what events is the Ministry of Culture planning in the field of museum cooperation and the promotion of movable cultural values in 2019 outside the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u16	Thank you, dear Mrs. Chekanska. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Chekanska, an extremely strong activity develops the Ministry of Culture through its structures for quality enhancement of the relations of Bulgarian culture and arts with the world museums and galleries, opera scenes and all spheres of art, translations. I'm just going to target a few projects that are about to be implemented. First of all, of course, part three of our relationship with the Luver. There will be a very serious signing with the Centre of Pompidou in Paris for joint exhibitions. We are there with contemporary artists, they are here with things that are said to have seen only on television. It is coming, and within days, the signing of a contract with the Ermitaja. "A long-term contract for five years ahead with a very strong interaction. It's a huge museum! The key is this year to come to Bulgaria the ring and sword of Kubrat as a sign and beginning of these relationships. This I think will be an extraordinary emotional moment for all people who feel Bulgarians. Next month comes the Director of the Art Gallery, also for a long-term sustainable contract, where they will come to us, and we will be there to train curators together. We're in an advanced relationship through letters. We made a meeting with the director of the.Getty in America the largest museum, for long-term cooperation, where we will once again gather our unique Thracian things in a huge exhibition and go there. The French Minister of Culture will come specifically to visit on 17 April 2019 in Bulgaria. We will go together, of course, to the capital of culture Plovdiv, and we will go together to the island of St. St. Kirik and Yulita, where together France and Bulgaria have shook hands to work out an outstanding project "Arts and Culture Island" which includes contemporary arts, underwater archaeology and museum, archeology something exceptional, which, I think, will give added value and contribution to the development of cultural tourism in the country and tourism in general. Let's be safe, I hope. He also asked President Macron 2025 to be the Year of Culture and Arts of Bulgaria in France. It's an extraordinary thing! I have to tell you, I really hope on April 17th that he announces it here. This means one year for Bulgaria to be present in all scenes, museums, galleries, libraries in France, in all of France this has not been done so far. It has an extraordinary effect and we are facing serious support. " 2025 seems far away, but the preparation for such a project lasts five to six years. That's part of the way we think about it. We really think about the future, seriously, visionary. For a long time at the Ministry of Culture, we've forgotten the thinking: let's make up for a day or two, and tomorrow we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u18	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question should be from the BSP parliamentary group, but they are missing unfortunately. [[Radio.]] So, from the side of the United Patriarchs, come in, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is in connection with the National Fund of Culture: as a funding body in the field of culture, how is the money spent? You said that the funds that have entered this fund have been increased in what way are they used to support, preserve and develop Bulgarian culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sabanov, as I said, the Fund will become more and more a key factor in the financing of projects by Bulgarian artists from all spheres of the arts. Three hundred and eighty thousand. lv. a budget a year and a half ago, the Fund's budget is already 1 million. Three hundred and eighty thousand. This will continue. This is one of the state's support mechanisms. Otherwise, there are very finely scheduled rules. There is a large committee where there are representatives from all spheres of art and culture. Everything is distributed on a project basis: it is applied with projects, committees are made by relevant specialists.. If it is for theatre, if it is for cinema, if it is for animation, if it is for any sphere of arts, all the translation niches for literature are supported, and the opportunity to have more money. Last year, when you were half a million more, almost 60% jumped the supported projects. And most importantly, not just as a number, but it was enabled to be supported by greater funding because it was almost symbolic before. There were people who didn't even know if this fund existed. Now with the new half a million we expect 100% to rise support and, again, I say, with much more serious funding for the people looking for support. So things are sustainable and transparent. I can't help but say that always, where there are projects and project funding, you can't support everyone by having ten. If you support five, the other five may express some discontent and are dissatisfied with why they are not appreciated, but we take this risk of moving forward. Let there also be dissatisfied, but let there be more good ideas supported by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u22	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists. Here you are, you have the floor, dear Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you how the Ministry of Culture implements Objective 133 of the Government Programme, which reads: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, there is a formula laid down in the Law. With this step, the 1.5 million we made last year, we are taking serious steps towards getting closer again, I said, this process will continue dramatically, including if it enters the concept of............................ for foreign productions. It will drag on, even more than the formula suggests, and I said it just now to protect the identity of our film production. Otherwise, all the money we add goes to a single feather making movies. For nothing else, not for administration, not for anything. They enter film production. In film production! And that's how it's gonna be from now on. There works a very serious working group and young filmmakers. In the years there are claims according to the order, regulation and the way in which the activity of the Film Centre is carried out and the way in which the projects are ranked and viewed. In the Ministry, we are completely open, and with everyone who has any claims, we have made a working group that works very seriously. I hope that there will also be amendments to the Law, which will give most of all much more transparency to everything that is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u26	Thank you, dear Minister. We'll start with the next round of questions. Second issue on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Here you are, dear Mrs. Milkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We all know that Bulgaria is a country with ancient history, culture, a country that has an extremely high percentage of cultural monuments, a variety of artifacts that we know require special care, attention from the Ministry of Culture. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what action does the Ministry of Culture take to preserve real cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Milkova, purely practically because in this field of conservation of cultural heritage, it is now high time to start doing some practical things today to store, tomorrow, to preserve the past today. We're almost done with these famous repairs that I was hoping would end six or seven months ago. We're finishing up a room under the Ministry of Culture that they used as a bar once. It will no longer be a bar, it will take over, and according to all the new conditions, the entire archive of the Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments. Accordingly, the archive will be combined with the end of the grievances under the Digitalization Project, so that we can start both digitalization and the archive, when it is moved to describe it, stick it, store it as necessary, and digitize it at the same time. The first floor of the Ministry of Culture is empty, where the Institute will be moved. His identity remains all the rules on which he works, but will be in the Ministry of Culture to stop this disgusting regime, months to deal with even made timely opinions, to come from the Institute to the Ministry, to climb up, someone to watch them, to sign them, then to travel weeks back to the Institute. We are doing everything we can to have at any given time a hypothesis with the Institute, to know what is happening, to be able to prioritize, not to have a project that is behind, to be able to reduce the deadlines as much as possible. This does not cancel the regime that has been adopted in Bulgaria the conservative regime where we observe, protect, keep all projects to comply with the Law, to meet everything that will enable in time, sustainable people to enjoy them, to know, to remember. We make an extraordinary effort to reduce the time limits, to give both the ordinary citizen and the business and the municipalities the opportunity to have peace, that when they have to work something, cultural monuments yes, we will want to be perfected, we will want to respect the Law, but we will not drag them around, we will not stress them out and say: "It months from there cannot be passed! And a lot of other things, of course. It's gonna take a long time to talk. We are fully focused on this. We will achieve it! It's getting a little slow with the administration, not as fast as I'd like, but we'll get there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u30	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Minister, I apologize that you will not again receive a question from the parliamentary group of BSP, but you see that they are not present in the Chamber. We are continuing with a question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you are, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Banov! The house of Michelangelo in Florence is a museum, the house of El Greco in Toledo is a museum, the house of Rubens in Antwerp is a museum, the house of Titian in Venice is a museum, the house of Van Gogh in Over is a museum, the house of Picasso in Malaga is a museum, the house of Picasso in Antibe is a museum, the salt house of Picasso in Paris is also a museum, the house of the Born Museum, the house of Matisse in Nice is a museum, the house of Brancusi in Paris is a museum, the studio of Djakometi in Paris is a museum, the house of Marini in Italy is a museum, the house of Mantsi in Bergamo is a museum, the house of Asen Peykov in Rome is a museum, the house of Ivan Vazov is a museum, the house of Sofia, the house of Yavorov, the house of Marti in Italy is a museum, the house of Mantsi in Bergamo is a museum. There are some debates going on right now by some people, and when I think of this house, called emblematicly, the Red House, and for these people, I keep remembering a thesis, a comparison, a Kurt Vonnegut thought, I'm not going to quote the title of the book, I'm not quoting exactly a rephrase, he's talking about grandfolones. Who are the granfolons? Empty, mindless people, united for meaningless, or something like that, goals. At the time of the transition, and especially during the time of Ivan Kostov's government, the country was broken down, destroyed, stolen, carried away countless assets of any kind of state, economic, but there were properties, there were buildings that were carried away by predatory individuals, guerrilla and Sorosoy circles, and many of these properties are still in possession of them. This house, which should be one of the temples of art in Bulgaria, is currently still among those pieces, those pieces of mosaic that must be collected to be intended and perform that function, which, because of its nature, its origin, its past, should perform. My question to you, Minister, is: how long will the house of the great Bulgarian sculptor be in the hands of people who have nothing to do with his art, his legacy? Is there any obstacle to the house becoming what should be the museum of the great author? What are these obstacles, what are these obstacles of nature? Do you believe that during the management of your ministry, you can do something in this connection to the property, the house of Andrey Nikolov, to restore its purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Shopov! Just to return to the monuments of culture: we have increased more than twice the budget of the Institute for Cultural Monuments, in order to have more money, to employ people, students from universities, similar organizations and with a drastic increase in the wage of the people inside to enable them to receive a decent pay for the enormous work they are doing. Mr. Shopov, the Gallery as early as 2018 is starting to make a clear statement that it will restore and make a museum from Andrei Nikolov's house. The problem of not happening to date is connected.. I will fix you a little with history, it was not donated by Andrej Nikolov, it was donated by his heirs, but not by all. That's the drama of this house. Some of the heirs did not ask to donate their part of the state and we are co-owners of the state. Although the house is now at the National Gallery, where it belongs, because there are stored over 60 works of the great sculptor, plus many castings, we are in ownership. In order to make a museum, this ownership has to be decided. They're constantly trying to buy back our part, which is ridiculous. We want to buy back their share. The Director is currently extremely active in dealing with this issue, negotiating. We are ready to cooperate with anything. I personally believe that the state should acquire the rest of the property and build a museum as it should be. That's our wish. This is what we are walking towards, but because private property is inviolable, when a private owner does not want to sell.. it is not a highway to pass to alienate him, in this sense it is a matter of conversation. We're working on it, and we're working on it very seriously. Everything that depends on us, we will do so to make it happen to acquire the rest of the property and develop a sustainable museum. This house will no longer be rented out with the aim of the Gallery going inside and making a museum. Not as a lack of desire, but rather these technical but very serious obstacles are hindering us at the moment. But we're working, we're doing the best we can. Once again, there is no mechanism to alienate, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u34	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Budinov, you have the floor for expressing attitude regarding the answers of Minister Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I am glad that the Ministry of Culture is working and building on what has been achieved over the past years. As you know, education is a major priority of the majority responsible for the majority of the European Union and the European Union, but I want to ask you: what is education without culture?! Culture is perhaps the most important and indivisible part of education, and as I like to say lately, it is the cherry on the cake of education. We of the ruling majority are aware of this. An agreement is signed between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Culture to expand the interests of children and students to the Bulgarian identity, traditions, history and contemporary forms in the field of theatre, musical and dance art and to promote the spiritual values of the nation. The two ministries will cooperate in implementing measures and activities between the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education and state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts in the system of the Ministry of Culture. As a person of Bulgarian culture, I do not hide and express my sincere joy that Bulgarian culture is in the process of development and upgrade. More money has been allocated in most areas of culture. This is also one of my personal causes in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I see that the Minister of Culture and I here are one and the same, and I'm happy for that. The diversity of stage forms and the expansion of audience access to an ever higher artistic and performance product is an important focus, laid down in the program of the Ministry of Culture for the Development of Performing Arts 12 600 spectacles, reached about two million viewers, are realized in state performing institutes. The production of scenes of stage institutes is distributed throughout the country and reaches its outermost regions. The main concern of the Ministry of Culture is attracting new audiences and the development of new audiences. Projects with the participation of disadvantaged citizens or ethnic and minority communities are financed annually. It is also commendable what is happening and is about to happen in Bulgarian cinema and gives us its fruits, making us part of the valuable European cinema, to whose family we belong. In 2018 and 2019, in partnership with the representatives of the cinema community, measures were taken to implement cinema legislation with a clear overlap with the principles of transparency in decision-making and direct involvement of all stakeholders in these processes, part of which I am happy to be a part of. It is commendable that the budget of the Ministry of Culture after a decision of the Council of Ministers provided state guarantees for temporary exposures that promote the cultural heritage of the country and the shared values of Europe. As you know, Bulgaria is an ancient country with a very, very rich culture and the Ministry of Culture takes care of the preservation and promotion of this culture in front of the world, things that every Bulgarian can and should be proud of! I like and support your efforts and results in the field of libraries, especially and more specifically the Programme "Bulgarian Libraries" "Contemporary Centers for Reading and Information" and the renovation of the Bulgarian libraries and initiatives for the presentation of the Bulgarian book and literature abroad. A great joy for me and for every artist is that in 2019 Plovdiv is a European capital of culture, and the programme there this year is more than delightful. Congratulations on the efforts, results and actions you have taken to preserve the real cultural heritage! It is important and essential that the Bulgarian Culture Development Strategy Project is at a stage of precision and is moving towards finalisation. Thanks for the hearing. Congratulations on achievements and results! And only forward in this important and significant cause, to which it is worthwhile to devote ourselves to the cause of Bulgarian culture! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Budinov, exactly five minutes, by regulation. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, you have the floor for expressing attitude towards the answers of Minister Banov, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My speech will be clear and clear. I also consulted with representatives of our parliamentary group, part of which were watching the hearing from the Parliamentary Hall. I'll say this. An extremely good general exhibition by our Minister of Culture. Especially on the issues that our parliamentary groups have asked him, very profound, deep answers and knowledge of matter. I allow myself to speak this way because I have been President of the Committee on Culture and Media. Congratulations to your preparation, Minister! Give God to other hearings and other ministers to perform as you did today! Good luck and good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Dear Minister, thank you for your participation in the hearing today. You've been thorough, convincing. Thank you for what you're doing at your ministry. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. No requests were received between 22 and 28 March 2019. There are written answers for service by: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on two issues from the MP Veselin Mareshki; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Erjan Ebatin. We begin with the questions to Krasimir Valchev "The Minister of Education and Science." He will answer a question from the National Representative Iglika Ivanova on programmes for complementary activities to the career orientation of students and building a system for career orientation of students in school education. Here you are, dear Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u39	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Dear Minister Valchev, I present to your attention a question about the programmes for complementary activities to the career orientation of students and the establishment of a system for career orientation of students in school education. It is undeniable that the shortage of specialists in different areas is a serious problem for which efforts are needed by all legal entities. One way to overcome this negative phenomenon is the early career orientation of students. The main purpose of career orientation is professional self-determination, professional choice, development of personal career skills; on the basis of counseling making informed decisions by the child and his parents or by the young person for his professional life development. In general, it is a process of establishing and creating conditions for the deployment and development of human personality potential from early childhood. The intended establishment of school career guidance programmes certainly has a beneficial effect on the pre-organization, preparation and motivation of the participants for basic, permanent and annual career orientation activities. This also facilitates the opening of the necessary resources to ensure the planned activities and to achieve the set objectives. When there is a justified programme, resources can be sought from the main participants and partners. The family and employers, as well as from the media. The school organization is also easier because the annual calendar of activities is based on the construction of common traditions and the establishment of shared values. The program effectively allows rapid identification of both the problems and the resources of the student, its strengths and weaknesses. As a result, young people focus on the development of their strengths, which motivates them and generates in them a desire to learn knowledge and skills, as well as maintaining good communication. On the territory of Gabrovo district, in the cities of Gabrovo and Sevlievo, a Programme for complementary activities to the career orientation of students has been developed. I believe that all activities in the development of such programmes, taking concrete action in their implementation, as well as the construction of a career system, mainly at the secondary stage of the primary educational degree, are very important, extremely necessary and useful for students. In this regard, it is also my question to you, namely: what objectives and tasks are bet in the Programme for complementary activities towards the career orientation of students? Do you think this model can be used at national level?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ivanova, you have detailed the objectives, meaning, content of career orientation as an activity in the school education system. This is an activity which was not necessarily financed until two years ago, but was laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act as part of the necessary support for each student. In 2012 the Ministry of Education and Science started the implementation of the Career Guidance Project in the School Education System, funded at the beginning of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" and then continued the Operational Program "Science and Education for Intelligent Growth." Career centers were created under the project and support was provided in the form of career orientation. The project ended in 2017. Since 2018, we have started planning budget funds to finance this activity and for the remuneration of career consultants located in district centres, but should serve all municipalities in the area concerned. Of course, the career consultations we continued to finance after the project were not the only career orientation activities. It should be inserted into more activities of schools, especially when we are talking about a secondary and secondary stage. The fact is that we are trying to make a policy for restructuring the adoption of both in the system of vocational and in the system of higher education, which is, however, linked to the creation of attitudes and attitudes towards the activities that we want to focus on more children. We are also using the funds that have been granted at the rate of 25 million. lv. from the state budget. This year we have planned funds to finance career guidance activities. Using the good example of the program, in Gabrovo we met her. I organized a national meeting with the heads of regional governments right in Gabrovo, where we discussed how such programmes should be created in all areas and in all municipalities precisely in order to enjoy the benefits of this programme. I hope that happens. These programmes may be financed by means of interest activities or at the expense of other funds from the budgets of schools or municipalities. One part of the funds for interest activities remains in the municipalities and they are right for inter-school activities, but also an opportunity for children to visit more sites. We combine career orientation with the expansion of the educational environment and thus with the program.. not to visit more businesses, but more public institutions, to visit more objects with educational, cultural or other importance, which expands their educational environment, but also allows them to develop abilities and guide them careerally, especially when talking about businesses. These are briefly the activities we carry out with regard to career orientation. A small part of the schools also have their own career guidance programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u42	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u43	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Minister Valchev. Your response confirmed my beliefs and impressions about the positive impact of the measures taken on the territory of Gabrovo region in relation to the system of complementary activities to career orientation and the need to implement such a model at national level. I consider it extremely important to implement the measures described above to balance demand and supply on the labour market. The key point to achieving this balance is the early career orientation of the legal entities, the deployment and development of people's personal potential, which will lead to adequate performance in applying the acquired knowledge and skills. Thank you once again for your comprehensive response and for your actions in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev, who will answer a question from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov about improving the development of young doctors in the health system. You have the floor, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is well known that one of the most complex and sacred professions is that of doctors, so studying medicine is one of the most severe, long-term education. Unfortunately, there are cases in our health care system that make some of our young and graduate doctors leave the country. Specifically on the problem. Doctor's training is six years. Most of the students are alimony to their parents. The fact is well known. Due to the complexity of studying, they cannot afford to study and work. After their graduation, they have to specialize in four years and in some specialties and five years. The state contracts that the State grants are not large. For example, for residents, here I would like to specify for 2019 a children's psychiatry for the whole country has been allocated four pieces. This way the residents who do not enter into a public procurement must pay for their specialization. How, Minister, should we keep the young doctors in Bulgaria? Dear Minister, my question to you is this: how will you overcome it and what measures will you take to solve this problem? As far as I know, you have already begun taking such action, but you will still want to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear young people! Dear Mr. Atanasov, first of all, I should point out that creating favorable opportunities for professional development is a priority measure of the Ministry of Health, which aims to keep medical professionals in the country. An essential part of the professional development of medical specialists is training to acquire a specialty. During the operation of the repealed Regulation No 34 of 2006 on the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system, the Ministry of Health reported a number of problems in the way of specialization, including the high degree of frustration among residents of the training arrangements. As a major problem, it was the specialization against payment that repels young doctors and the lack of a work contract with the medical institution. Regulation No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system was therefore introduced a conceptual change in the terms and conditions of the specializations. Significantly eased access and improved conditions, with specialization in clinical specialities being carried out on the basis of a contract of employment. The employment contract ensures, to the fullest extent, the rights and obligations of the resident in relation to his training to acquire a specialty, including the receipt of adequate remuneration. It is important to note that in accordance with Regulation No 1 the students in clinical specialities, such as the specialty of the School of Psychiatry, only charge a fee for their theoretical training, which is most common within 2 months for the entire period of the specialization four or five years. The maximum fee for the one-month theoretical training at present is 50% of the minimum wage. Accordingly, for residents admitted to places financed by the State, this fee is paid by the Ministry of Health. Clinical specialists do not pay a fee for their practical training. For completeness, it should be noted that for 2019 in the speciality of Psychiatry, a total of 10 places have been established for which the State will finance theoretical training and not four, as you point out in your question, and only two of them are occupied. Taking into account the problems outlined in the practice of the implementation of Decree No 34 and Decree No 1, the Ministry has developed a draft regulation for amendment and supplement of Decree No 1, which aims to introduce an effective mechanism for the implementation of the state policy to ensure the necessary specialists in the field of health. With the amendments to the Ordinance, the Ministry plans to subsidise training bases for places financed by the state in clinical specialties. In this way, the state policy will be implemented, aimed at phased overcoming the shortage of specialists in certain specialties or in certain regions. In this way, the necessary specialists in specialties for which a shortage of doctors has been reported will be conducted through funding from the state budget and not at the expense of the budget of the medical establishment, prerequisites and opportunities will be created for residents trained in places financed by the state, at a high professional level, in leading hospitals, in different professional areas to start working in regions with shortage of specialists. The conditions for specialization in general medicine have been improved. It will be carried out in accordance with the general order of clinical specialties on the basis of a fixed contract of employment of a resident position and not on the basis of an order of the Rector. This will solve the main problem of lack of income during the specialization. The Ministry of Health will subsidise general medicine training bases for places financed by the state and general medicine specialization will not be at the expense of the budget of the primary medical care facility. Changes are envisaged aimed at achieving greater stability and predictability in the employment relations of residents who have acquired another specialty assigned to a training base or holding an academic position in a higher school by dropping the requirement that those residents change their fixed-term employment contract to a temporary contract, to a position as a resident. Another change is the taking-up of resident posts to take place after holding a competition under the order of the Labour Code. This will achieve greater objectivity of the way in which students in clinical specialties are appointed by introducing the competition start at their reception. A separate section has also been developed for dentists. Relieved relief for residents in admission to a state exam was envisaged. It is also intended to remove the requirement that training fees be linked to the monthly minimum wage for the country. Changes at operational level have also been developed that will improve certain aspects of the training process. The Ministry of Health monitors the trends in the potential emigration of medical specialists, as it issues certificates necessary for working abroad to medical professionals who have acquired their qualifications in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is important to bear in mind that issuing the certificate is not equivalent to going to another country for the purpose of long-term establishment there. Part of the certificates issued are necessary for recognition of professional qualifications in another country for training or short-term work, after which the medical professional returns to Bulgaria. Some medical professionals wish to issue a certificate without having a specific opportunity to start working abroad. Over the past 11 years, there has been a clear trend to reduce the number of health certificates issued by the Ministry of Health to doctors. The reduction is more than three times from 655 in 2008 to 203 in 2018. Particularly intensive is the reduction in the number of certificates issued after the entry into force of Regulation No 1 when their number has decreased twice. It is apparent from the data presented that the mobility of doctors is within 1.. 2% per year. Given the right to free movement of people in the European Union, we believe that this percentage of mobility is completely acceptable and does not pose a serious threat to the country's health system. Regardless of the above, with the amendments to the Ordinance on Specializations, it is envisaged that doctors will work for a certain period of time in our country, unless they recover the funds that the state has provided for their specialization. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health is discussing and analysing the problems and difficulties that have arisen in terms of training to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system and looking for optimal solutions and sustainable human resources planning in a way that will provide the necessary personnel in this area in the medium term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u48	Thank you, dear Minister, it was important to us. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I don't want it to sound like a line. I want it to sound more like a pointless fact to our minister. It is no coincidence in my presentation, Mr. Minister, that I have stressed that you have taken, at least you, many things on this so important issue. I'll give you some facts. Although I am not in the Committee on Health, I have nevertheless consulted some very serious specialists in the healthcare system and will issue some data that are disturbing. The average age of a doctor currently in Bulgaria, Minister, is 55 years. This is a verified figure, which, let me say, does not sound like a strong word, but is already starting to jeopardize even our national security. Regulation No 1 which was adopted in 2015 partially developed this issue. I would like to say to you that some of the rules in the Ordinance here I would recommend that you, Minister, do the appropriate checks and you will see that some of the decrees of Regulation No 1 are simply not followed. Especially for the so-called contracts that residents sign with health institutions, keep in mind, I have consulted with at least 10 health institutions in Bulgaria from different cities and from my home-born Plovdiv that these two minimum salaries, which should be paid to the resident, are largely not paid. Check it out and you'll see. Secondly, a Bulgarian student costs our country annually, as this is an expensive study, our student Bulgarian pays 500 BGN. This is, of course, you know, extremely insufficient. For the state the training of one of our students per year costs about 10 000 leva. For his six years of training the state invested in him 60,000. lv. This is checked by specialists and lecturers at our universities in Plovdiv, Varna, Pleven, Sofia, Stara Zagora. Only foreigners who pay 7,000. Euros, and thank God they're paying the amount so that in some way these universities can get more money. The relaxed numbers of the state, Mr. Minister, are extremely insufficient. You mentioned psychiatry, but the psychiatry that my daughter has directed to tell you directly is extremely unpopular as a specialty among young doctors for many reasons. You know, there are no clinical pathways there, and psychiatrists are usually low-paying. You were right about 10 of them, but for children's psychiatry, there's four of them. There they really do not fill themselves simply because there is not much interest in psychiatry by young people. Psychiatry is not a major barometer, a major measure of the numbers that the state relaxes. For example, I will give you three numbers that are disturbing: for children's rheumatology, Mr. Minister, for the whole country a single issue has been allocated; for skin venereal diseases for the whole country are given three units; for maxillofacial surgery from the state have been allocated only six units; for neurosurgery I don't want to give any other examples. Why am I enumerating these things? After consulting specialists and some of them are even here in the Chamber, the issue is to plan things more seriously, to direct the number of our residents to pay and pay, and the state to make this commitment, because now it comes out slightly cheaper on flour, expensive on the trinity. My point is to review the figures, especially in these specialties, where there is hunger and you see that there are not many applicants, the state has already invested six years in this young man. I believe that specialization should in practice be borne as a cost by the state, and not to make part of our young specialists make payments for six years of studying again, perhaps the most complex study in Bulgaria, and then to pay again. I would like to conclude that in practice we condemn young specialists to a non-especially high-paying fee. You know, two minimum salaries for one qualified doctor. He himself is now a doctor when he graduates, and this payment is extremely low and is not even respected by health institutions. Do a background check and you'll be sure of what I'm telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atanasov, both the figures and your conclusions were completely correct. That is why the Ministry of Health with the latest amendments to Regulation No 1 adopted as its commitment, as the commitment of the state exactly what you are proposing. The state can best assess what specialties Bulgarian healthcare needs and in which regions the necessary medical staff should be provided. The remuneration to be granted, i.e. the cost of this training, will be at the expense of the State. Yes, they will be two minimum salaries, but it can be discussed whether it is much or little. There is a danger that if we increase this size more than two to three, or more minimum wages, to obtain other disproportions within the health sector itself, as you can see, there is now a protest by nurses who want two or three minimum salaries, but when entering a hospital, it is seen that sometimes doctors receive much less than that. Of course, I can check whether these funds are paid to residents, but this is a contract between the trading company and the resident, and ultimately correctness must be there. We can do it... and surely, there will be such cases, but I hope that with the latest changes and the positive things I have pointed out in my speech will contribute to a quality new higher level of specializations in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u52	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the National Representative Dora Hristova concerning problems in the payment of funds spent on clinical trails by municipal hospitals. You have the floor, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in a meeting with the head of a municipal hospital in Stamboliiski, I was aware of a problem that most small hospitals like theirs face. It is that most of the municipal hospitals in Bulgaria have fewer departments in specialties than the major state, district and university hospitals. However, it is often the case that a patient who has been admitted according to the rules with indications of hospitalization, with all diagnostic tests and with started therapy, get complications and his condition worsened. Then it is necessary to bring him to another hospital with a greater number of wards and greater opportunities. In these cases, art. 348 of the National Framework Treaty, namely: the medical institution is obliged to bring the patient to another medical facility. This process includes the discharge of the patient from the hospital hospital, its transportation and hospitalization in the other hospital. In this case, according to art. 348, para. 2 of the National Framework Agreement, the activity is paid to the hospital that has completed the treatment without taking into account the fact that in the present case the most frequently discharged hospital that the municipal hospital has incurred the cost of receiving and diagnosing the patient, which includes laboratory, X-ray and other tests, and has started the necessary therapy. This includes costs of transporting the patient to the receiving hospital. That is, if the relevant municipal hospital is only interested in the health of the patient and its recovery, it is damaged. The costs thus incurred so far remain at the expense of the first medical establishment and are not covered by the Health Insurance Fund. This is a big problem for small municipal hospitals, as they are also important for their survival. In this regard, I ask you to answer: are you familiar with this problem and why, when determining the obligations for the payment of clinical pathways, is not taken into account the fact that the hospital concerned did not have an option for further new treatment that was required on another clinical path? What measures will you take to solve this problem so that municipal hospitals are not harmed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hristova, according to the Health Insurance Act, the basic principle of compulsory health insurance is the negotiation of the relationship between the National Health Insurance Fund and the performers of medical care from the package "Health activities" guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. In relation to the above, in the course of the negotiations on the Annex to the National Framework Treaty for 2019, the question you have asked has been identified and discussed for more than a month, but no agreement has been reached on any other solution other than this 10-year practice. Your case files are summarised and analyzed. When medical and diagnostic activities in the case of the same disease, the same patient, at the same time or at a short period of time, are realized in two hospitals, it is difficult to determine a general principle of pay and accounting for the activity. In force from 1 January 2019, the National Framework Treaty shall be adopted for a period of three years and, if necessary or at the request of each of the Parties, the National Health Insurance Fund or the Medical Union shall be updated in accordance with the order of its adoption. The first National Framework Treaty to be adopted with a three-year period is the one to be negotiated and signed in 2019 and will be valid for the period from 2020 to 2022. The negotiations on it will start in the course of the preparation of the medium-term budgetary forecast and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. In accordance with my powers as Minister of Health to coordinate the National Framework Treaty, I inform you, and I will insist in the course of the preparation and negotiations on the National Framework Treaty 2020, this issue will be put back on the table and I hope that we will find a balanced solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u56	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer and for your desire to solve this problem that puts small hospitals in an imbalance. In my opinion, this is not arranged in the right way, as each such municipal hospital fights for every lev for its survival. In this case, Municipal Hospital Stamboliyski is a hospital which, despite being close to a large city, proves that it is necessary for the citizens of the city. In our view, this equality can be settled with these cases included in art. 347 of the National Framework Contract, where in recent years such exceptions have been made in two cases The changes in the National Framework Treaty can be negotiated, as you said, between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union and can enter into force even under the current Treaty. Moreover, you, as a very good financier and budgeter, know that this change will not have a financial effect, but will simply have a redistribution of funds, and will be satisfied this hospital, which has actually incurred the costs, not this hospital, which has taken over the patient's next treatment. This, in my opinion, can be settled with some fixed percentage of the treatment, for example, from 60% to 80% of the treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov and is about the purchase of 120 high-passed emergency cars. Here you are, you have the floor, dear Dr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, it is clear to all of us how important the presence of high-profile ambulances for the implementation of quality emergency assistance in our country Bulgaria is and it is hardly necessary to stop at the moment that the park is, although available, very depreciated and the needs are very serious in this regard. In view of this, my question to you is: at what stage is the public procurement procedure for the purchase of 120 highly accessible ambulances for the hard-to-reach regions of the Emergency Aid Modernization Project in Bulgaria? When all 400 ambulances are expected to be available at a total of 163 million. lv.? Is there a risk that the project might fail? I hope that there will be no failure of the Project and that these high-pass ambulances will be available in time, on time, given that it concerns the hard-to-reach regions in the country where time is a factor. Although co-workers and all medical staff react in the most appropriate manner, in some cases patients need to be transported to the relevant centres. I'll give you an example from yesterday: a case of heart attack, which I've been called about. Well, it was a good thing that he was involved, and he got into the relevant center, and he responded to the general practitioner's response, a young man of fifty-something years old, and he was prevented from having a heart attack. I will allow myself to take part in the specializations on which we have had a lot of conversations on behalf of our parliamentary group with you. It is good that there is progress, because the decision of 2015 is the half-hour.. I will not dwell on the specific numbers and the relevant regulations, it does not work, it does not function. For the realization of the specializations our country needs this and besides that we need specialists, it is an element of national security. The Ministry, which you are in charge of, must make an appropriate analysis of the needs in the country and on this basis, if necessary and on this principle, to set out the competitions purposely in order to assist these regions with the relevant specialities. We wish you to speed up this course of discussion and finally to act on the new regulation with which to start the specializations of colleagues. Only one aspect of what you have set out is that three years must work those who will specialize with aid from the state, with subsidies from the state, to say it directly, but hardly enough to work only three years. All who go down this path must realize that the country has needs, too, must approach with a patriotic feeling and, above all, fulfill their duty to the country in the name of the patients we need to treat in the country. There are many aspects that we can talk about in this direction, so I expect your questions to see both about ambulances and about specializations. I hope for positive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u60	Thank you, dear Dr. Chakarov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, indeed the state, the functioning of the healthcare system is a matter of national security and we must make every effort to make sure that the system is in such a form and condition as to ensure the health and life of Bulgarian citizens. Undoubtedly, to finish on the previous subject of specializations, this is an extremely important issue. We are finished with the public discussion and are currently generalising the proposals made. Indeed, there are very correct and good proposals and in the near future I hope that we will finalise this process if it is not within a week, in two weeks to finalise this process. The major project to modernise emergency assistance is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health and we will fight to the end that it will be implemented in all its volume and within the time limits in which it is intended to be completed. Specifically on the subject. Decision No RD-1181 of 8 March 2019 declared the classification and selection of the performer of Special Position No 2: an ambulance for emergency medical care type B with four-by-four transmissions, an ambulance designed and equipped for transport, initial treatment and monitoring of the patient, 78 units. Unfortunately, according to an old Bulgarian custom, this decision of the Minister of Health before the Commission for Protection of Competition is naturally regretted. We expect the Commission's decision to protect competition and we are fully prepared and an organisation to immediately conclude a contract with the chosen winner in this module. With regard to the other 42 ambulances, by Decision No RD-1182 of 7 March 2019, the public procurement is terminated in the part of Special Position No 1: Emergency Medical Aid Ambulance type B.S. with increased passability, constructed and equipped for transport, initial treatment and monitoring. 42 pieces, which I said, as all offers submitted are inappropriate. To be honest, we are currently analyzing the reasons, the circumstances, the factors that have led none of the candidates to suggest that type of ambulance to respond to our technical assignment. We are working very hard, and soon we will surely come out again with the announcement of the public procurement, as these ambulances are extremely important, especially in high-mountain and difficult-to-reach areas. As an answer to your second question, I guarantee you that, by the end of the project, by the end of 22 October 2021, all 400 ambulances will be available to our emergency medical centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ananiev, it is obvious that serious efforts are being made by you and by your team at the Ministry. Let us hope that, as soon as possible, the Commission for Protection of Competition will objectively, correctly rule on the case, and then proceed to the realization of the contract for the purchase of these necessary high-pass ambulances. I wish you a successful and fruitful job. With regard to the other components, the following classes of cars, ambulances, which need to be purchased, because in my capacity as both a doctor and a MP from remote small and medium-sized municipalities really ask these questions to us, the MPs, and we understand what their pain and need is, and we hope this will happen. With regard to specializations, I am also very much satisfied with what I hear, but let all this happen. We need to think about the other aspects, too, because when I experience the state exam students who are graduating, and under a government order, the question of where they will work -- even before they have received their diploma -- to have completed their state internship -- there are many colleagues who say where and in which cities within the European Union they will work. Yes, that's their right, but at the same time, the state has invested nearly 60,000. BGN, as Mr. Atanasov said just now, and these colleagues of ours, in whom the state has invested, go and work there. In a way, our poor country, which is the last in gross domestic product, exports staff, and we invest in them. It's the right thing for these people to do their duty in the country. We also need to think about the mechanisms similar to what you propose regarding the specializations of those who graduate from medicine, medical specialties, to fulfill their duty in the country or to pay for their education accordingly and to have one such approach. I am opening up the topic of a serious discussion in this respect that we are both debating and finding the right solution in view of the needs we have. The age limit is not only 55 years old, but the average for doctors in the country is over 55 years old and this is a very disturbing figure. There should be a rejuvenation of medical staff in all profiles for both doctors and other staff working. Indeed, you have an extremely heavy responsibility, for which we wish you success and as a budgeter, a financier, and as a person with experience, and to solve the problems of finding a balanced, adequate and best possible pay for medical staff. We appealed for this and asked you questions during the last blitzcontrol. In addition, it is under way and there is a serious reform ahead, for which all the political forces must unite and have a non-partisan political consensus and finally this will happen. Politicians are definitely indebted to our entire community for what needs to be done in the health care system, so we wish you success! We will continue to monitor what happens in the system that you manage and manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-29.u64	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Chakarov. That concludes parliamentary control for today. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in the parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 on 3 April 2019. We're adjourned.
