ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-B-UCA AND TECHNICAL SUBMISSION OF THE CONSTRUCTION SYSTEM JCATS (JOINT CONFLICT & TACTAL SIMULATION) Importer is the Council of Ministers. Before we start working on this point, I will make an announcement: on 4 December 2019 in relation to this point. 2 of the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017, as amended by Decision of 12 October 2018 and of 27 February 2019 adopted in the event of a debate on inquiry No 754-05-33 of 13 July 2017 by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov received at the National Assembly a Report from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva, examined and approved at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2019. The report is sent to the MPs of their e-mails and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedure for access to the hall of Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u3	Please vote on Mr. Popov's procedure. They voted 165 MPs: 161, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Commission on the Draft Law on the ratification of the International Treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCA "Licenses and technical support of the JCATS structural simulation system (Jont Conflict & Tactical Simulation) including operating system licenses "Linux', version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the acquisition of the new equipment (RHEL), No 902-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 28 November 2019, the Defence Commission discussed Draft Law on the ratification of the International Treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCA The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanasov Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence, and Mrs. Elena Markova, Director of the Legal Activity Directorate. The Chairman of the Defence Committee stated that on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has submitted to the National Assembly a draft law on ratification of the Treaty. The draft ratification law was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov. He pointed out that the Treaty, to a total value of USD 416,396, was signed by the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence on 28 October 2019. This contract, which is called a letter of offer and acceptance of the offer, is drawn up according to the requirements of US military sales legislation under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS), which strictly regulates the possibilities for acquiring US military equipment and equipment. It represents an offer with delivery conditions by the US government. Deputy Minister Zaprianov presented to the members of the Defence Committee the need to conclude the contract and the expected results and financial consequences of its implementation. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Konstantin Popov, Plamen Manushev, Kolyo Milev and Simeon Simeonov. They expressed their strong support for the appropriateness and cost of the Treaty. After the debates were concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 21 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on the ratification of the International Treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCA?Licenses and technical support of the JCATS structural simulation system (Jont Conflict & Tactical Simulation) including operating system licenses.Linux, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the acquisition of the new equipment, No 902-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I want to wish the mansion a happy day to all Kolyovtsi and Nikolaevtsi! Let's be safe!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u7	Congratulations on me, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u8	Our parliamentary group will support the ratification of the Treaty, as this JCATS system was built as early as 2005 at the National Military Training Centre The treaty is in the direction of improving the system itself and its further use for the preparation of our formations. The system is reliable. I personally participated in the preparation of the Carlov Brigade in the summer of 2008 and autumn we had no problems with the certification of the Brigade for participation in all operations of the Alliance spectrum. The system makes it possible to save many resources and, above all, live power, GSM and financial resources. It enables simulations and conducting simulation games, exercises, training at a basic tactical level, I said, to battalion and brigade headquarters. Online can be checked the state of both the senior staff and the formations, the columns are moving online, the condition of both the fuel and the personnel, and of the columns where they have reached, and is managed respectively in the relevant language which is ordered for the teaching. The license we will acquire and the new opportunities to improve the system will enable us, in the future, to save a lot of money for the preparation of our tactical formations, and this is positive. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy celebration of all sailors and fishermen and all associated sea-related working in an unusual place and environment for man! Thus said Grandpa Cyril, God rest his soul, our bishop Varna: "They sail in vain in this environment that is not made for man! " - St. Nicholas, let all keep, protect them, and let them return to their homes! On the subject we are discussing, on the subject, on the bill I would like to say a few words only in addition and in support of what General Kolyo Milev and General Popov said. This simulator, in addition to what General Milev said, was built to model the battlefield to the level of a separate soldier and a separate unit of vehicles, which enables, in addition to the brigade, battalion, the individual soldier to be watched how he reacted, how he acted and what happened to him. This upgrade of this system is extremely useful for the preparation of our units and also for our individual soldiers. There's something else I have to say, which is why I took the floor. This JCATS system is also used to organise search and rescue at sea. We've used it in the Navy, so the upgrade of the system is extremely important and useful. This is a good chance for us to be done with the help of the United States of America, so I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Thanksgiving for me too! Today is a good day for everyone who celebrates Nikulden and all sailors. I'm glad we're discussing those with regard to the fleet today. I would also like to say a few words at the point we are discussing. In fact, this JCATS system is very good, tested in time, and in relation to the limitations in which we live, including financial ones, it is still good to combine simulations with real teachings and thus increase the combat preparation of our formations. It is used, if I am not mistaken, from all NATO countries long ago, the practice has been established. Moreover, I suppose that we will move on to more and more simulational exercises in both the Bulgarian Army and as a global standard, I would say, in connection with the entry of new technologies into all spheres of public life, including the military sphere. The building up of this system is something positive, something that needs to be done, and it has to do with increasing our defense capabilities, the preparation, even motivating our soldiers to see how military action can be carried out in such a controlled environment. It is good to have more such exercises, even more since they are not related to the cost of their realization, so we will support such an upgrade of the so-called JCATS system, and we welcome the policy, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, which thinks about increasing the combat preparation of the Bulgarian servicemen. I hope there will be more similar reasons for consensus in the Defence Committee, because I believe that everyone in this Chamber would like to see a more combatable, more motivated Bulgarian army, Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, I put to the first vote a Bill for ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-B-UCA..Licenses and technical support of the JCATS structural simulation system, including licences for the Linux operating system, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the absorption of the new equipment. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! After the fruitful debate, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u15	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u16	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-B-UCA "Licenses and technical support of the JCATS (Jont Conflict & Tactical Simulation) system including Linux operating system licenses, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the absorption of new equipment A single member. Ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-B-UCA "Licenses and technical support of the JCATS structural simulation system (Jont Conflict & Tactical Simulation) including Linux operating system licenses, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the acquisition of the new equipment, signed on 18 June 2019 in the United States of America and on 28 October 2019 in the city of RHEL. Sofia. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u17	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, article one and final provision. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u18	Coming through. to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON BUILDING AND DELIVERY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF THE NETHERLANDS FOR THE DELIVERING OF THE MINER OF MINE LOADS, Importer is the Council of Ministers. I give the floor to Mr. Manushev to read the Defence Committee Report. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What better day than today to look at this bill for the Navy to buy two mining hunters? It's a gift for the sailors. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the International Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters At a regular meeting held on 28 November 2019, the Defence Committee discussed a draft law on ratification of the International Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanasov Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence, and Mrs. Elena Markova, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Defence. The Chairman of the Defence Committee stated that on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has submitted to the National Assembly a draft law on ratification of the Treaty. The draft ratification law was presented by General Andrey Botsev, Head of Defence. He pointed out that the Purchase and Delivery Treaty, amounting to a total of EUR 1,996,000, was signed on 7 November 2019 by a Dutch country and on 11 November 2019 by a Bulgarian country. General Botsev presented to the members of the Defence Committee the need to conclude the Treaty and the expected results and financial consequences of its implementation. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Plamen Manushev, Kolyo Milev and Simeon Simeonov. They expressed their strong support for the appropriateness and cost of the Treaty. After the debates were concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 21 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Defence Officer proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote the Law on ratification of the International Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters, class "Tripartis" and mine hunter "Helevuttsleis," class "Tripartis" with class "M859," No 902-02-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. I declare the beginning of the debate. Are there any willing to speak by this law? Here you are, Mr. Milev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take this attitude as one of the few bomb squads in this Chamber, I hope, and say that our parliamentary group May God have nothing to find in the Black Sea, but anyway, the formations of the Navy, and the engineering units to them, must prepare together with the fleet. It's not a big price. The ships aren't new. Their restoration and provision of work to our repair bodies and military formations for preparation and maintenance is positive for the Navy. We support the conclusion of this treaty and ratify its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Come in, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say a few words about what we are going to vote on and why it is important and necessary to vote and ratify this interstate contract for the purchase of the two types of mining hunters. The two mining hunters are ships specifically designed to fight mines. We have one such ship, the mine hunter, which was given to us by Belgium, along with three Belgian frigates. The ship is fully operational and fully operational. Our navy forces have a serious and acute need for replacement of their anti-mining forces, as the mini-cleaners we have are Soviet production and are already at the end of their life cycle. Our navy forces as a balanced system must also have such forces, especially in the Black Sea, where the use of mines and the frequency of fairway and waterways is extremely important. These forces must be developed. The opportunity to take these two anti-mining ships from the Netherlands at this price, for this money, will sharply increase the capabilities of the Navy to combat mining danger and restore one of our mine-cleaning divisions. Third Division, so that with three mining hunters and three regular mine-cleaners at a base station.. Varna....................................................................................................................................... The ships are extremely good, marine and are good for the conditions of the Black Sea. I think it's important and necessary, and we need to do this less effort to enhance our fleet's capabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we will support the ratification of the International Treaty for the acquisition of two mining hunters. This is good for the fleet and for the entire Bulgarian army, although we are acquiring defensive products that are older generations, let's say. It's good for the fleet, because it's a way to motivate the Navy's troops in the Bulgarian Army. They will also serve as exercises to increase the combat training of Bulgarian sailors and will eventually increase the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Army. This is good for the Bulgarian Armed Forces and therefore we fully support the purchase of these two mining hunters. I hope that next time we will talk about the acquisition of new defence products, though I know how difficult it is given the prices it has for new products, but this is a step forward. I'm glad that the fleet will finally get something new that it can conduct teachings on and increase combat training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote at first reading the Law on ratification of the Treaty on Popup and Delivery between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters They voted 129 MPs: 127 against 2, no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. Mr. Manushev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose the Draft for ratification of the Popup and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters, class "Tripartis," class "M856," and mine hunter "Helevutslais" class "Tripartis" class, with class "M859," No 902-02-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019, to be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Manushev. Vote 126 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to the review of the Second Reading Bill. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of a Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters A single member. It ratifies the Purchase and Delivery Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters, class "Tripartis" and mine hunter "M856" and mine hunter "Helevutsleis" class "Tripartis" signed on 7 November 2019 by the Dutch side and on 11 November 2019 by the Bulgarian side.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. To speak, Mr. Shopov, you have the floor. I open the debate with your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u31	Congratulations to all those who bear the name of St. Nicholas! Bless you! Congratulations to our brave naval forces! It is good that today we increase their power with these two ships. No one can be against this and not be satisfied with the purchase that will make them even more capable. Dear colleagues, by buying these two second-hand ships, from the Netherlands at this decent price we cannot fail to note with regret, and here you will say: well, nostalgia. Yeah, sure. Minocleani Bulgaria until 30 years ago produced itself in a factory located between Tsarevo and Ahtopol. Was that right, colleagues, naval officers, military colleagues at all? If not, correct me. I think for all of us that was a fact. So on today we wish this Bulgaria to restore its economic power, its capabilities, its military industrial complex, a powerful military industrial complex as it had. And in the future, let us congratulate ourselves and be pleased that we are producing our own weapons. Let us also note this fact. Now, with consensus, with universal approval, this is how it should be, but remember what we were. We can also talk about the same thing about the Air Force when Bulgaria produced its own aircraft, and about other parts of the military industrial complex, regarding the Land Forces, when Bulgaria produced MT-LB armored machines in connection with the communication needs of the army and more, and more. I'm not gonna keep doing this. It's clear to all of us, and we have to understand what it was and what it is now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Manushev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking the cue from what Mr. Shopov said. It is true that more than 40 years ago, we produced in Tsarevo at the time Michurin, a number of mini-cleaners who still serve. Three are active, three canned. That was also the order for six such ships, not very large, regular. They're made of extremely good ships that still have all the weapons for one mini-cleaner. The plant would then flourish even more because there was an order for about 30 such ones for the Soviet Union, but they gave up and the plant produced only the six. He produced really wonderful ships that continue to sail and will sail for many more years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Do you want a hole, Mr. Shopov? No. Here's your speech, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We greeted the names, the sailors, we forgot the bankers. Happy Thanksgiving to them too! Mr. Manushev reminded of the years in which the Bulgarian defence industry worked at high speed was among the leading. Now, with the purchase of the two mining hunters, one in good condition, the other needs a little repair, we will create an opportunity for the terrain to work, to resist it. Ten years ago we received as a gift one such hunter, now at a political cost we will be able to purchase two more who will serve us for many years will increase the capabilities of the Navy. I would also be happy to support the bill in the second vote. I hope that we will unanimously support it because indeed the Bulgarian Army, and we as a border state, as a maritime state, need to have such vessels that will give us better opportunities in the implementation of both our defence and the tasks that NATO has set us and expects us to carry them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote at the second reading of the Law on ratification of the Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State Netherlands for the purchase of mine hunters, class "Tripartis," class "M856," and mine hunter "Helevuttslais" class "Tripartis" class, class "M859" and its only member. Vote 131 MPs: 128 against 1, abstention 2. The law has also been ratified at second reading. We move on to item five of the agenda for today: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GARANTION AGREEMENT BETWEEN BULGARIA, AS A GARANT, AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK, AS A BENEFICIARY, WITH REGARD TO THE AGREEMENT ON THE FUNDING OF 10 OTOMBER 2019 BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN INVESTRICATION BANK AND THE BULGARIAN ENERGY HOLDING EAD FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE PROJECT There are reports of parliamentary committees. The first report belongs to the Energy Commission. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to be admitted to the Chamber Ina Lazarova "Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and Veneta Tsvetkova "Director of the International Cooperation Directorate."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We are voting on the tolerance procedure. Vote 109 MPs: 105, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to present the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as the beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. At its regular meeting held on 28 November 2019, the Energy Commission examined and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Mrs. Ina Lazarova, Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD, Mrs. Milena Blagoeva, Head of Department of the International Financial Institutions Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova, State Expert at the International Financial Institutions Directorate at the same Ministry. The bill was presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, who explained the reasons for his adoption. The draft is related to the ratification of a guarantee agreement intended mainly to provide financing for the realization of a cross-border gas connection between Greece and Bulgaria, which will directly connect the national gas transmission networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria and will provide connection with the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline). This is a project of strategic importance for Bulgarian energy and in general for the Bulgarian economy. The loan agreed with the European Investment Bank is an extremely important element of the successful completion of the entire project. The ratification of this guarantee agreement is also a precondition for the entry into force of the Treaty and for the absorption of credit. Such ratification will also be carried out by the partners of the Project in Greece. The amount of the loan is up to 109 million. 900,000. Euros. The absorption period is three years, seven years is the grace period with regard to the principal and the repayment period is 25 years. With regard to the interest rate, the interest rate shall be determined for each tranche prior to its absorption and may be floating or fixed. These parameters, which have been achieved, satisfy to the maximum extent the successful implementation of this project. The guarantee agreement was signed on 14 October 2019 in Sofia by a Bulgarian country and on 17 October 2019 in Luxembourg by the European Investment Bank. With the guarantee agreement, the Garant (Bulgarian Republic) irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the European Investment Bank the timely payment of all amounts due by the Creditor under the Finance Treaty between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. As a result of the vote taken, the Energy Commission with 17 votes for abstention, without votes, is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, in relation to the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding JSC for the financing of the project "Educational gas connection Greece" - Bulgaria, No 902-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This Regulation on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as the beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. At its meeting held on 27 November 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as the beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister and Mrs. Veneta Tsvetkova Director of the Department of Energy Projects and International Cooperation and by the Ministry of Finance Ms. Milena Blagoeva Head of the Department of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation and Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova State Expert in the Directorate of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation. The bill was presented by Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, who pointed out that it aims to secure the construction of the inter-border gas connection Greece "Bulgaria" a project which is included in the seven most important priorities of the European Union in the field of energy and which will allow for real diversification of sources and routes for natural gas supply. The agreement provides for its ratification to be a condition for the use of the loan funds. The ratification is planned to be carried out by a Greek country as the project is realized by a Bulgarian state in the face of the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD as well as by the Greek company Poseidon. Ms. Petkova noted that the parameters of the Guarantee Agreement are providing a loan amounting to 109 million. 900,000. Euros. It was pointed out that the interest rate was set for each tranche prior to its absorption, with the period of absorption of the loan being 3 years. It is envisaged that the grace period for the principal will be up to 7 years and the repayment period of the loan will be 25 years. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 19 votes for the Council, without votes, and without votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, in relation to the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. With the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr. Stoinev will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Regulation on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding (EAD) for the financing of the project between Greece and Bulgaria, No 902-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019. At its regular meeting, held on 27 November 2019, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as the beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The bill was presented by Ms. Veneta Tsvetkova Director of the Energy Projects and International Cooperation Directorate at the Ministry of Energy. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ina Lazarova Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD, Ms. Milena Blagoeva Head of Department at the International Financial Institutions Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and Ms. Rositsa Dimitrova State Expert at the Directorate of International Financial Institutions. The project "Interest gas connection Greece "Bulgaria" (Project IGB) provides for the construction of a pipeline that will directly connect the national gas networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria and will connect with the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline). The necessary financial resources to finance the project are provided through grant funding from the European Energy Programme for Recovery, European and National Grant Financing under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and long-term loaned financing and equity of the shareholders of ICBG. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 2 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 provides for the granting of a State guarantee under the loan agreements in connection with the financing of the project "Interest gas connection Greece" - Bulgaria up to the currency equivalent of 215 million. lv. subject to the law of the European Union and the Bulgarian legislation in the field of State aid. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as a beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. We are moving on to a debate on the bill. The word is Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me also congratulate the name day of all lords today and those who have a professional holiday. Today, the agenda, which appears to have happened, is dedicated to national security, not only in the area of defence and energy security, which is also an element of national security. And that is good because on this project, too, I want to inform you: the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support this ratification. It will support it for the reason that for the first time in it we see a practical step for diversification not only on the routes, but also on natural gas sources. He will support because ten years after the signing of the Agreement with Azerbaijan by President Parvanov and his signature on every visit of an official to Azerbaijan, we are finally taking one step towards the physical delivery of that notorious billion cubic metres of natural gas that we have negotiated, which, by the way, if I am not mistaken, somewhere by 2020 expires the quota if we do not start physically importing it. We will support you, but I would like to draw your attention to a few issues. I am infinitely sorry that the Minister of Energy is not here at this important time, because he should also hear what I am about to say. You know that the Interconnector project was declared a project of national importance in 2009, later on for a national project and 10 years later, I repeat, 10 years later for a national project we came to its financing. I very much hope it won't take us another 10 years to realize it. It is said that this project will also improve gas supply to Southeast European countries. Colleagues, those who are familiar with the capacity, you know that this interconnector connection can provide only the need for gas in Bulgaria, if not God forbid something happens on the other routes. Three billion cubic meters with the option of becoming 5 billion normal cubic meters per year is for internal use only. Unfortunately, once again, this is the only option in which we have a practical step towards diversification of sources, and I am very worried that we are starting to get stuck in other projects. Yesterday information came out, I guess you've all read it that Russia is unhappy with the speed at which it is moving and can consider options for bypassing Bulgaria, which will be a disaster for our transit network. Studies in the area of Han Asparuh. Something has gone wrong, unfortunately, and have an uncertain future, for even more regret, and there we do not know what will happen. And that is why once again, stressing that we will support this Agreement as a really practical step towards achieving diversification of gas supplies as a source and as a route, and to ensure greater energy security of Bulgaria, we will not leave the other projects without attention and we promise you to keep an account of every delay and for every sheet that carries such a delay for Bulgaria's gas security, hence for energy security, hence for our national security. We also have problems here that we have not been able to clarify quite precisely, about the interest rates that were linked to what we will have to pay. The agreement contains floating interest rates from 0 to 100. And then it did not become clear exactly how much it would be, on the libor will it be, plus how much overestimate of tribes and so on, but these are details which I hope the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy have made clear and made things in the interests of the Bulgarian economy. Once again, my fellow Members, I say: we will support this ratification agreement, we will support it if a proposal for a second reading is made, but I pay attention to you that things in the area of security with gas supply are not pink at all and I call on you as managers to take the necessary measures to return to their normal merlot and as a speedy construction of the Balkan Stream and at least with clear public information about what is happening and when things are expected to happen, and by providing the relevant institutional assistance to all those who study in Bulgaria the possibility of extracting gas from local sources, which is, in fact, the most secure guarantee of energy security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u46	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I close the debates in this situation and we move on to the vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor and the European Investment Bank as beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. For the procedure Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the BCCI and on the basis that there have been no proposals for a second reading, I request the Draft for ratification of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor and the European Investment Bank as beneficiary in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u48	Please declare a vote on the procedure so made. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please present the Bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u49	The only point is: Ratifying the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor and the European Investment Bank as a beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding (EAD) for the financing of the project "Interest gas connection Greece" - Bulgaria, No 902-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u50	And the title, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u51	The European Investment Bank as a guarantor and the European Investment Bank as a guarantor, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the European Investment Bank, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u52	I put to the vote the name of the Law and its sole member. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. Ratification was accepted at second reading. Dear colleagues, we have left the great Bulgarian actress Stoyanka Mutafova. We will remember her with her fascinating and charming presence, with her charm, unique and unique talent and artistry. Her numerous reincarnations turned her into an icon on the Bulgarian stage and favorite actress of generations of Bulgarians. Bow to her memory. Colleagues, I ask with one minute of silence to honor the memory of Stoyanka Mutafova. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers: - from the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to four questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on 2 questions from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - from the Minister of Environment and Waters Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Lalo Kirilov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Interior Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. New requests for the period from 29 November 2019 to 5 December 2019. From MP Dora Jankova to Kiril Ananiev to Minister of Health on improving access to pharmacies and improving pharmaceutical care. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 13 December 2019. Reference to the debates on the question by the National Representative Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov on the policies of the government to ensure freedom of speech in Bulgaria. At the request of the National Representative Anton Kutev was answered at the meeting on 29 November 2019 on Friday. At the same meeting, 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next Parliamentary Control meeting. The proposal for debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 29 November 3019, Friday. Project for a decision to be voted on: Draft for a decision submitted by 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. No 954-00-91, from 29 November 2019, registered at 13.31 h. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev, within 10 minutes to develop your proposal for debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u53	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Why did we insist on dealing with freedom of speech and freedom of the media in Bulgaria? From the answer Mr. Minister gave me last week, I saw that he didn't think he had a problem with it. At least that's what it sounded like. He said: "We have legislation, it is European, it guarantees us everything. At least that's what his statement sounded like. It is true that the Prime Minister also mentioned about two oligarchs - by the way, I would like someone to ask him, especially from GERB, who are the two oligarchs, because I think of one, but I do not know if we think of the other one the same person. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] Especially for media oligarchs, who are the two of them? Why do I think there is a problem with freedom of speech and media? First of all, because it is obviously this freedom that we are talking about, especially lately, in independent people. Here in front of me I have had an interview at The Hill of former Ambassador Pardew in Bulgaria, who said in the interview that the lack of freedom and independence of the media in Bulgaria today are another condition for undermining democracy in a country that is a member of NATO and the European Union, and so on. The interview is quite long and similar conclusions are found in it several times. Just recently, the Prime Minister had a meeting with Christoph Deloir, who is the chairman of "Reporters Without Borders." We all know that Reporters without borders. In the past 10 years gradually brought Bulgaria down from 56 place, where I think we were years ago, to the unenviable 111 place on freedom of the media. Apparently Christophe Delair has an explanation for why this is happening. He spoke in his interviews then about lack of editorial independence, pressure on the media and so on. There are many findings that clearly show the problem of how he sees it. Personally, I would add a few more flaws that Mr. Deloir has seen. Because I am convinced that everyone who knows the media environment in Bulgaria knows that censorship on certain topics, especially in the last few months, has been obvious and previously had it, but now it is obvious, and on certain topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u54	Specifically!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u55	In the same way, I think the most serious problem is not censorship, but self-censorship.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u56	Specifically, specifically!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u57	Because many of the colleagues who are following us and reflecting us have the fear of doing what they need to do, and since I hear that Mr. Rashidov here is suffocating below, he will have the opportunity to make his point later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u58	More specifically! You can't have that in common...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u59	Mr. Rashidov, you'll have a chance!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u60	For me the question, Mr. Rashidov, about self-censorship is that question Borisov referred to about the two oligarchs because self-censorship is a reaction to the fear that two oligarchs... There may be three of you now you will come out and tell us how many there are and who are the oligarchs that the prime minister means. But some oligarchs can fire you if you allow yourself to write not what you should. And we saw it happen on the National Radio. I, by the way, as you are ruling, hope you have more information about what happened on the National Radio and tell us how it happened and who pushed Kostov, and how did it happen? Because these are important things. So, in addition to having censorship and self-censorship, we also have a situation of systematic underfinancing of the media and public and private media are systematically underfunded. And under-financing, respectively, always leads to dependence. By the way, one of the problems in private media is the system connection that I see very often in the content between the financial office and the editorial office. Every self-respecting media in the West firmly observes the rule that there is no connection between them. Often in the big media they are in different buildings so that the advertiser can not talk to the editor-in-chief and release the relevant materials, depending on who is currently advertiser and who is not. This is a global but not Bulgarian practice, unfortunately. And so on! I am trying to formulate a wide range of problems that are facing the media environment in Bulgaria. Why are we really focusing on the background of this whole circle of problems...? By the way, before I move on to the next, a little inadequate is the reaction of the Prime Minister, who suddenly decided that I would fix the media environment by transferring the newspapers to the Bulgarian Post Office. For me, with this action, he actually released another owner of a distribution system that had been using it long enough, and apparently now he no longer needs it. That's how I think there are different effects. It's not bad for the Post Office to take over the press. However, I believe that it is too late, first. And secondly, it is not going to bring back all those newspapers that they have closed, thanks to the monopoly or at least the partial monopoly that has existed for many years in terms of the distribution of newspapers and the corresponding dependence that they fell into, thanks to the monopoly because of the spread. Here, in our draft decision, we nevertheless propose that the Council of Ministers develop a strategy for the development of the media environment. Why the Council of Ministers? The logic that the media in Bulgaria are free and can do whatever they want is not quite true in my opinion. Under no circumstances would I claim to have interfered with the editorial policies of the media. On the contrary, I believe that the legislation in Bulgaria clearly needs development to ensure editorial independence. There are two types of media here that we all understand are key. Some are so-called public media, others are private media. Of course, for public media, the government and the National Assembly have much more responsibility than for private. They, the public media, that's why they exist. Because they have a different function attached to the Law. It is there that I think the key things to the reform of the media environment should be directed, because this is our par excelance. What are we talking about? Of course, we have an dependence on the bosses, the directors of public media at the moment in the way they are financed. Since 1998, no one has dared with all the governments that have changed, no one has dared to activate the so-called "Radio" and "TV" fund. Although the Fund is generally made according to the BBC model, which is the best form that has existed so far to finance media, i.e. direct public funding, which does not depend in any way on governance. Nobody dared a single government to do it. And that's a problem! So, we have a problem with the way it is financed, because when every year media directors go and stand on knee to the finance minister, respectively to the Prime Minister, to negotiate 5 or 10 million more, of course they fall depending. And as we all already know, with the debts at the moment, the obligations of the National Television alone are 70 million. Yesterday we voted them 70 million budget, that is, their obligations are equal to the budget. This, by the way, is illegal because they have no right to have obligations more than 10% under the Law. So they come in with this negative... And from now on, of course, if he gives them 5 or 10 million in any way the finance minister during the year, they will be obedient, where will they go, what will they do? Well, it's a good thing National Radio and National Television employees are quite rebellious in this case. I say thank God because they've worked against all governments over time, and that's their job. Thank God they're hard to control themselves. But anyway, the dependence of the manuals had it, and it was clearly visible at the time when the National Radio crisis was. It was clear that when a director of the National Radio was obviously dependent, he claimed that he was threatened, I suppose Mr Rashidov would tell us who threatened him, he knows more than we do, I suppose, as President of the Commission. So the obvious dependencies are there. A problem, of course, is not just funding. By the way, funding problems have private media. And by the way, this is a key issue and it is a matter of a philosophy of media management. Do private media have a public function? Given that all the public media in Bulgaria have a lot to blow it up and, say, 10% share of the market. So 90% of the market is actually private media. Should we ask private media to regulate their public function? By the way, I heard somewhere. I don't know which one of my colleagues said there was no explanation and there was no definition of public, public function of the media. That's not true, by the way. In the Law on Radio and Television on another occasion there are sufficiently clear definitions of what goes into the public function of the media. So in the legislation we have it may be subject to change, but we have sufficiently clearly regulated what the function of the media is. So the problems are in public media, but there are problems in private media as well. Because we are obliged as a society to finance the public function of private media. Of course you can't get a private person to do culture when he tells you: "But I don't want to buy this, it doesn't pay me back. " - Yeah, but do we need private media to do culture accordingly? Do we need them to work accordingly for culture or education to be part of our common environment or children's programmes? We certainly need it! How we're gonna do that is a matter of this debate. I'd like us to come up with real things in common today. And just in the last few seconds to tell you, gentlemen in charge, I've been thinking about these issues for a long time and I know how hard it is to come up with changes in media legislation. The likelihood of being eaten by the media is very high. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. I know it's a lot harder for you because you're gonna be under a lot of fire right now. I mean, I accept everything we're doing right now, and the debate, and the bill that we put in yesterday as a hand out to you. With this, we give you a chance to do the job that will otherwise make it much harder for you to do it yourself. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Colleagues, I will read you the time available to the parliamentary groups: Party GERB You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! I think that since 2017, this is the third or fourth attempt in which we are trying to put the topic of freedom of speech in Bulgaria to debate. So far, in most cases, we have used the report of the Council for Electronic Media, as the only procedure that has enabled us to debate this topic, to be analysed qualitatively, and I do not believe that this has been done so far for many reasons. I remember that every time the topic of freedom of speech was put, here we received a basic answer, the paraphrase of Boyko Borisov's words that freedom of speech is a problem of the journalists themselves and there is no reason why we should put it on the agenda here. For two years we have been driving with this explanation, only lately something has changed because also to the Prime Minister himself and also to representatives of GERB the idea that something in the media environment in Bulgaria is limping and freedom of speech is not going properly. At least as such recognition we can read Boyko Borisov's idea to invite a US expert directly from Trump's representative to deal with the freedom of speech here. Of course it doesn't work like that! Freedom of speech is not something that can come and outsource this activity, someone outside to fix our situation here. There is no way an external expert can correct all our irregularities, at least because we need to see a strategy for this freedom of speech, see some direction, and only then ask outside consultants in the right direction are we going. As in Bulgaria, there is a problem of freedom of speech and there is no need to wait for the rankings of Reporters without borders to confirm this. On the contrary, it is constantly seen that journalists live within the increasingly shy perimeter of topics and freedom of speech is not at all the way Boyko Borisov described it that everyone could say what they wanted. In fact, it is the missing themes from the media that draw the limit of freedom of speech that the big themes that are missing, the big themes that we are not dealing with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u63	Tell me one of those things!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u64	Now we'll share. Here, I give you an example of what atmosphere we live in. Only these days in this room I now see that the colleague is absent.. there is a member who asked a reporter what underwear she was wearing, what underwear she was wearing this morning. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] I'm sorry, that's not a yellow subject. This is a very important topic of the atmosphere we live in...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u65	Is that the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u66	...for the impunity with which a Member of the National Assembly can afford a similar attitude towards a journalist, since he did not receive any provocative question. Come on, of course, not to think of it as a provocation: "Why didn't you vote for your main election promise? "
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u67	Come on, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u68	I'm sorry, but when you create such an atmosphere, you can't say there's freedom of speech. When you create something like this without being able to take any attitude to condemn it, then there is no freedom of speech. And this problem continues to stand on the agenda. And I'll tell you again: we don't need reporters without a border, we don't need anyone else to tell us that in Bulgaria the media environment is cruel and creepy. And now we see that the Prime Minister has matured for this understanding. We see that Bulgaria began to change or perhaps under external pressure began to say that some changes were needed. Freedom of speech is the most vital freedom of all in a democracy and when in Bulgaria we deprive ourselves of it, then just the quality of our democracy is lame. Because of this, colleagues, my colleagues will talk about our ideas. I am glad that for the first time the subject can be put in this way, I am glad that the subject exists now in this Parliament. After all, when we talk about freedom of speech, there's a chance we can move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u70	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! I don't know why this debate has to be too big, because right now you're knocking on an open door. We don't mind sitting down really and thinking about all of us together, making laws, rules of life, this life that we all want to live. I very often show that freedom of speech does not belong only to the media or to one institution or another. It is a sacred right of every person, also has the right to freedom of speech, so this issue is very important. Secondly, let us not forget that democracy is a string of rules and laws, and there is no way, so the media are no exception. We create such a life in which to respect the democratic ways of our entire society, including the media. About playing with the media and liking each other, see, the people have said something very nice: a politician is killed with a newspaper, and a fly too. We are either gonna stand up and create rules and lifestyles to coexist, or we're just gonna keep playing some courtship, some gonna deny it, some gonna fight, and that's not gonna solve any problem. I just want to let you know that you have colleagues of ours who we work with very well in the Committee on Culture and Media. Well, we already have an expert group, and we have started working on this law, which we will debate widely with society, of course, and with fellow Members of Parliament, so everyone. As under the Media Property Act, we have had a big debate, a law on which we finally found consensus, and mine, we will do the same, we will do it, we will even work on it. As for the freedom we use very often, I would ask.... especially when you know, and we know who are owners, what are we hiding? Mr. Peevski owns one part of the media, and Mr. Prokopiev was the name of this young capitalist, and he also owns the other part. Their battle is not a political battle, we all know what we're talking about and very much please don't play through the media, this flirtation to conduct it. Soon we were called in.. and our colleagues from the Committee on Culture attended, in the German Bundestag, to wave their finger at us the Germans. I did not go deliberately because I would remind them of the policy that the VACs led in Bulgaria, German media. And I don't like anyone compromising my country, where I have as much rights as the media, in the country where my grave is gonna be, someone defileing my country and the land where I was born, we do it all the time. Who authorized someone to give me an assessment of where I am, Mr. Kutev? Yeah, there's a loose end. I remember half my life passed in another system, when there was no freedom of the media, you remember, you know that well, now I know what freedom of the media is, but I am for that freedom, for the real freedom of the media. We live in a time when false news became a disease of Europe and the world and the people can no longer distinguish what is true and what is a lie. This is our big fight to come. It's that our people are confused, and on top of that, we want a confused people to live together, it's impossible, we're separated. I'll tell you a few things that happened in Germany. Mr. Kutev, it is good to know, because you are a serious person, you have a serious attitude to this, but I have a serious attitude to the Media Act, and I have a serious attitude to my own homeland. I don't want to go on living in my old age and have someone bring me shame in a country he can only be proud of. Because I would talk longer about the looseness and we should beware of it, because it's the only way to kill freedom of speech. The suicide of the media is their problem, but ours too. He's ours too! The Bulgarian delegation, which also had representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media in the National Assembly, visited Germany at the invitation of the German Foreign Ministry in order to participate in the discussions on the topic of Freedom and Press. The media diversity is regulated and the main active people in this meeting are Reporters without borders and with a fearsome attitude towards our Bulgarian state, with a terrible interference in our internal affairs. I will make my own decision, order my own state and I think Mr. Simov said very well: we will solve our freedom of speech here. I don't want Reporters beyond the borders who receive information and no one has authorized them, no one. What if we set up a non-governmental organization for word-shattering? Are we gonna dirty the country again? Therefore, the aggression against the Bulgarian state that restricts freedom of speech is not an honest aggression and is not allowed for me, it is not fair to do so. We all know where the information goes from there, and we all know why we eat these frogs and why we're at 111th place when everyone can say whatever they want. And do it, Mr. Kutev! And I'm going to give you a lot of examples, but I don't think this is the place to do this. Therefore, I am the man who, with Victor Paskov, has a bright memory, we did in front of the Bulgarian Parliament during the reign of Mr. Kostov two rallys precisely for freedom of speech. We all have a great deal of need for this freedom, most of all us. Most of all, we're citizens. I'm not going to answer the question: why is the Great returned? Well, Prime Minister Borisov brought it back. Who brought her back? Is it you or someone else? They brought her back, yes, because a journalist shouldn't be so aggressively punished or released. Well, listen to her shows, maybe there was a reason, I don't know. Didn't the public media have to be balanced, to have both sides? Anyway, you're a reasonable man, listen to the media. I'm not getting into this. But I ask: can you point me to a person here in this hall who has forbidden freedom of speech, or a Bulgarian citizen who walks the streets, forbid it? We can't talk in the room about freedom of speech when they're corporate and they have their own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Who's got a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Rashidov, I would like to thank you for your willingness to participate in this topic. This is very valuable to us. Because the topics that you have raised are precisely what we want to discuss, which we want to analyse and find the right solutions for them. So I really sincerely thank you for what you said. But it is also about this, Mr. Rashidov, that it is time to set some deadline for this process. So our request is that we take the road together, find the way, set a deadline, and go in that direction, because the media environment is really becoming unbearable. I absolutely agree with you on the external intervention of colleagues from other countries who will try to give us advice. In the end, however, if we do not accept the opinion of journalists from "Reporters Without Borders", do we then accept that of those from "Standard & Poor's"? All these questions we have to answer, you and I. I absolutely support your attitude towards external interference in the regulation of our situation, but at the same time you see that the Prime Minister is leading an expert from the United States to teach us this. So we're talking about one thing, and at the same time the executive power is going in another direction, which turns out both you and we disagree, right? Thank you for your speech once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u73	Thank you. Is there gonna be another line? Second line, Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u74	Dear Mr. Rashidov, I saw last night on TV that you have an attitude in the case of a precedent that is quite fresh, it is running, it is a scandal at the moment. You know about the simplification that a colleague of ours showed with the most inappropriate question that could have been asked to a reporter. Everyone's looking at your phones looking at your case and laughing a lot. Can you think of a lower taste, a greater simplification than what was demonstrated by our colleague? And instead of condemning a coworker, to be condemned...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u75	Mr. Shopov, Mr. Shopov! Excuse me, but I'll get you back on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u76	...for what he did, my question is to Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. We are talking about the freedom of speech, the case continues and becomes even more drastic, and even more ridiculous the management of the National Assembly takes away the accreditation of this reporter and the team that was with her. Today, a television station is deprived of television. It is entitled to reflect what is happening in the Chamber. What we are discussing right now about freedom of speech, Mr. Rashidov, I think that you, as a person in this area, will take a stand before you. Here comes the question of how to conduct it, because it is a question of how to conduct it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's ridiculous to talk about freedom of speech when a reporter is offended...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u78	...the way the whole country is talking right now when...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u80	...the accreditations of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u81	Please complete your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u82	...one TV and none of the reporters reacted to it, kept quiet. Can you imagine, colleagues, if...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u83	Mr. Shopov, please! Don't abuse me! You've exceeded the time for your line. I'll be forced to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u84	...that was one of the so-called so-called national televisions, what would be the reaction, and that reaction would be right, but let's react to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u85	Thank you. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman. Mr. Shopov, that was a little off the subject we're discussing. I took an attitude because it's a mistake and it's unacceptable to talk to a lady like that, and you see that no one stands for arrogance. As you can see, yesterday, the Speaker of Parliament punished our man, Spas Gurnevski, for unseemly words. Of course, we need to limit free speech to a minimum, especially in this building, but we are talking about what should be the principle of existence so that I can only address Mr. Kutev. Mr. Kutev, there is already an expert committee working. Of course, you're right here who asked the question for the deadline. Yes, a deadline must be set, and I hope that it is considered when the deadline is due, and it is good together to take this decision when the deadline is due. Sitting down really is a very important topic, it is important for all of us and I want to assure you that on topics that concern all of us and the municipalities as today's topic. We are working splendidly with your fellow parties and colleagues, so I think that the end of March is a good time to ask the Council of Ministers to submit some ready-made project that we should sit down and discuss, because you are all aware that it is a very delicate subject, it is a very thin subject and we are obliged to discuss this bill. It is very old, of course, and here you are right that the Bulgarian media in the 20th century should be in tune with time. Isn't that what we're talking about?! There's a lot of stuff. Together with this law, we must allow public media for longer mandates, to have the opportunity to make reforms, because now we cannot even give them more money. You mentioned the few funds because the structures have not been reformed, and once they are reformed, we will probably all agree to receive more funds. Yeah, of course, they're short, and not just the media. We have a lot of work to do, Mr. Kutev, and I suggest that we unite ourselves around some time, assign the Council of Ministers to come up with a solution and make a serious public debate with all the media, all interested in the empty freedom of speech. I'm telling you, we need this freedom more and more, all of us. I keep thinking it's not a privilege of the media, no one's a sacred cow in front of the law. And lastly, I probably won't speak anymore, democracy is still a string of rules, and we have to make them ourselves, in our hands it's everything. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u87	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I support Mr Rashidov's words that certain factors in Europe and around the world love to interfere in different countries as well as in Bulgaria. It is no secret that a small part of such international organisations, which make rankings according to different principles, are for freedom of speech, whether for something else, are funded by certain circles that support ideologies, against which at least a large part of this hall are against......................................................................................of historical memory............................................................................................................................................ Such international organizations support in Bulgaria and parties and media and international organizations, which then give an assessment of the state of freedom of speech in Bulgaria. In my opinion, if we need to talk about freedom of speech in Bulgaria, Bulgaria is probably number one in all the freedom of speech rankings. Anyone can say what they want, anyone can make a media as they want, anyone can print a newspaper, write in a newspaper, make TV, talk, anything. Here, tomorrow I'm gonna sit on a social network, like Angel Press, and I'm gonna start doing media, and I'm gonna write whatever I want. Where is freedom of speech lacking? The problem is in Bulgaria, and not only in Bulgaria, the whole world is already. The problem is the objectivity of the media, whether journalists and media are objective, whether they are running errands or not. There is a huge connection because freedom of speech in Bulgaria has as much as you want. I will also give another example: there is hardly any other country in Europe, certainly there is not, I do not know about the world, where in parliament the media can and are freely moving anywhere, can stop any MP, talk to him about whatever they want, ask him whatever they want. This is the most open institution of parliament, not only in Bulgaria, but I am sure that in Europe as well. Here the journalists and the media are not isolated somewhere to arrange interviews with the MPs for three days or five days, but stop them at the moment and ask them. Isn't that freedom of speech? Where else is it? And that is why the topic should really be how to stop the false news, how to stop certain trends in the world and in Europe to impose an ideology which, for us from the United Patriarchs, does not have any moral values and values. This is what they are trying to do through certain media, through certain NGOs, to change people's thinking and to say that the abnormal is normal. I think BSP colleagues are against this, and at least that is what they say. If we are talking about freedom of speech, colleagues from the BSP, I will give you one proposal: you have won the presidential election anyway, you have a president, a vice president. The presidential institution is more closed than the parliament and there the media have no free movement. Why didn't your president introduce a free regime for media movement, as in parliament? Why are the media only there when they're allowed to enter the main entrance to the lobby and only there are statements of invitation? Let the presidential institution open its doors to the Bulgarian media and let them also be able to see how the institution works, the officials at the institution, the president, the vice president, can stop them in the corridors and ask them whatever they want. As bad as the Bulgarian Parliament is, it actually turns out to be the freest parliament in the world as media access. It's a fact. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] We're talking about freedom of speech. So what greater freedom? What more do we have to do? Do we have to comply with anyone's rankings? And I can register some international organization tomorrow with five or six other people from the world and make a ranking for freedom of speech and say: Bulgaria is number one and everyone starts quoting this. And if he did an analysis, how the analysis was done, is there anything true about what we said, we don't care about, and we read the headlines. The bad news is that in Bulgaria and the people and our entire society and we as MPs, politicians and all the other journalists are reading only the headlines now. We don't check the information, and we don't even read the title sometimes, which has nothing to do with the material inside. Is that the problem? We've become people of the headlines. That's where the problem comes from and that's why I say: freedom of speech in Bulgaria there is. There will always be attempts at whether business, whether politicians, whether any other non-governmental organizations, to try to influence media and journalists, to pressure or threaten, there is this all over the world. This is not right and we are against this. But as MPs, how can we make sure that there are objective media in our country, to protect the right to real information and not to false news? That's our main problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u89	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, I strongly oppose the idea that freedom of speech has, because everyone can say what they want. Freedom of speech is not everyone to say what they want. Freedom of speech is to create conditions for professionals, journalists to reflect objective truth. Freedom of speech is to guarantee those whose profession it is not to be drowned by anonymous sites, politicians or whatever people want to make Facebook, or any other way to influence themselves. Freedom of speech is the government's systematic work! Since we often speak of false news, dear Mr Rashidov, and with the Minister of Justice, you have made statements in this direction several times. I definitely don't think fake news can fight regulation. The only way to combat false news is with the authority of the publications, media and journalists who sign under one report or report. The big problem of freedom of speech is that in the last 10 years, and perhaps more years, as many as you want, there are practically no more publications in Bulgaria, whose title, when you see it, is the subject of professional journalistic work, not one's flash drive, not one's propaganda. This is the big problem, Mr. Minister, and we expect a regulation to be made by the Council of Ministers to free the hands of the real journalists, professional journalists, those who are educated about this thing and who stand by it, to give the field to the professional media, to the real media to have a way to exist, and not as it is now "the big Bulgarian newspapers to be sold in minimum circulations." It's freedom of speech! You also say about Reporters without borders, about interventions and so on. The authorship of the Reporters without Borders is built in their name in the world and we look at the Reporters without borders on the freedom of speech, to the Transparency for corruption, to the Standard and Poor's for something else, because we no longer have internal authority to trust and seek international.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u91	Excuse me, Mr. Zarkov, you're getting hot, but, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u92	...and that's the big and bitter truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u93	Thank you. Let's finish the lines and I'll give you the floor. I don't see any other line. A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u94	Mr. Zarkov, I don't see what we're talking about differently, and we're talking about the same thing, maybe in different words. And you're talking, and I'm talking about being objective and having authority journalism. But any action by the government, whether by the National Assembly for change and regulation in the media market and in the media in Bulgaria, will provoke a huge wave of all media and NGOs for interfering, censoring, limiting freedom of speech and this is a fact. What's right? I didn't hear what was right. What do you suggest? How do these things happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u95	We proposed it to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u96	Mr. Kutev, if you want, you can say whatever you want from the stands. Tell me what you're suggesting, because we didn't hear. Because debate is a good thing, and then you say: we made a debate, the government to solve the problem. Tell me, how do you propose to do this? What do you propose, so that then, when all the media and NGOs jump for the beginning of limiting freedom of speech...........................the politicians interfere in the media, the responsibility for these changes that you want to happen to carry? Say: we believe that this and this should be done and we will be responsible if the government and the National Assembly do so to the media, to international organisations. Because these international organizations, which you are quoting now and I deliberately do not mention their names, then will first blame you for censoring the media in Bulgaria and interfering with the freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u97	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Rashidov's personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zarkov, look, it's like we're all starting to say the same thing, but we want it to sound different! I told you what the problem was. The problem is that we need to find the right solutions to how to do this, not here to say what the media should do. To have objective news, but why don't they? Because we have allowed this to be the spiritual food of the audience. I guess that's what's for sale. Why? Because it's been a broken yard since 1990, and we haven't put in any human rules for all of us to move on together. Not to give examples that my colleague gave. Thanks to some media, a lot of young people have left the country. At the moment, do you not notice that there is a war against politicians, that no authority has the Bulgarian politician? I was just asking you, tell me one of the people in this room who has forbidden this freedom. Do we not see delicately that there is a war against Bulgarian doctors? For a crime we put a common denominator, common concepts. How should a Lyubomir Spasov be humiliated? The professor who performs kidney transplants every day and saves people? What should a Gencho Nachev be humiliated with? Why is the whole thing dirty? My wife is 30 years old at the toughest hospital in Bulgaria in Pirogov. Every day I have conversations about people's fates. And out of three cases of people's pain, we make a theme. That's the scary stuff. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Even my kids for some schoolgirl shows went abroad. We need to take some precautions. There are examples of this. There are examples.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u99	Please finish your thought, Sir Rashidov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u100	That is why we propose to make working groups, sit down and finally make some rules. That's all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u101	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u102	The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u103	Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor in the manner of conduct not to make a remark because of Mr. Rashidov's personal explanation, but to use the case to correct myself because I said that there are no more journalistic authorities in Bulgaria, but the truth is that there are, but systematically, working for their removal and descarmation. This is the problem of freedom of speech in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u105	Statements? Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There's a cry from colleagues here that they've been harassed, that they've been spitted on. It is clear to everyone that there are no politicians in Bulgaria who, throughout the transition, have been so dissatisfied and so undeservedly persecuted and harassed as the politicians of the party............................................................................ There's no question about that. [[People's representative Desislav Chukolov in front of the stands makes a video with his mobile phone.]] But not only the politicians from the party "Attack" "Siderov," the MPs and activists from the party "Attack" are in every way discredited, harassed, persecuted, persecuted, but also the activists, journalists related to the party "Attack" from the TV "Alfa" have always been...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u107	Mr. Chukolov, with inconvenience I must remind you not to disturb the order of this House. It's not practice. [[Reply from MP Desislav Chukolov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u108	...exposed to repression. There is no television on which the SEM has imposed more sanctions, absolutely undeserved, without any reason whatsoever. [[The National Representative Desislav Chukolov continues making a video recording.]] Colleagues, we're talking about freedom of speech here, and I think BSP is gonna... The case is ongoing. The scandal is in the country right now. There hasn't been such a journalistic scandal in a long time. However, many of the media are silent, and the very leadership of the National Assembly certainly makes the most absurd steps and actions in this direction. Instead of being held accountable by the MP, who is standing right there and smiling, who once stood up for a crowbar at the time of the scandal with mothers with children...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u109	Mr. Shopov, I remind you time is up. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u110	The management of the National Assembly for just one month I am graduating from Mr. Chairman is making a second act for the withdrawal of accreditation of a team of journalists from the TV. One month ago, one of these accreditations was revoked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u111	Time has really come a long way. Please complete...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u112	A second act has been done today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u113	...so I wouldn't be forced to comply with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u114	You obviously want a team that's obedient that doesn't ask a question that's comfortable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u116	And, Mr. Chairman, I give you to the President of the National Assembly, through you, Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, to your Chairman Mrs. Daritkova...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u117	You are already illegally using the seat of the parliamentary tribune. Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov, I have shown tolerance. [[The President turns off the microphones.]] I'll pass it on to the Speaker of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u118	Call the Ethics Committee and deal with the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u119	Thank you. That's the end of the story. Take your card, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u120	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u121	Mr. Chukolov, I've been unheard of.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u122	I want to explain this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u123	By the way, do you want a procedure? I don't think that's necessary. Trust me. I don't feel offended and I don't feel like we've done anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u124	No, it's not an insult here. It's up to what everyone who calls themselves the media should actually be offended about. I'm just asking you to time it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u125	In the manner of conduct, but please be strict to me so that I do not apply the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u126	Hard on you. Mr. Chairman, today you are the management of the Bulgarian National Assembly, limiting the access of journalists to the building of the National Assembly. Journalists from the TV station Alpha. Yes, that's why I'm bringing it up. However, Bulgarian journalists who have the right to inform, reflect and actually do their job. You were denied access today. Why? Because they're doing their own journalistic investigation into the unacceptable behavior of... Is this guy here, I can't see him, specimen...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u127	Mr. Chukolov, I don't find my place in your...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u128	You refused access to the National Assembly's leadership. I'm addressing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u129	No, the way we conduct it means one thing, the way I conduct this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u130	You refused access to the media to investigate why this gentleman... Wait, excuse me! Don't censor me and don't interrupt me. You did it with the media...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u131	I'm gonna take your word for it because you're breaking the rules right now. Please finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u132	The MP who's asking about a reporter's underwear!? Don't you realize what a scandal this is? [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u133	Please finish and get off the stand. You're breaking the rules right now! My tolerance should still be based on the rules. [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]] I'm really worried about the ratings right now. Please, Mr. Chukolov. Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we return to the subject again, and the topic that our colleague Anton Kutev raised today is extremely large and comprehensive. I thank Mr. Kutev that at this very time he raises these thousands of questions both for public media and private media. Since we are on the eve of the end of the year, I think a good example was the amendment of the Law by the DPS, which was actually made the first step and the first attempt to get media legitimacy, to know who is actually behind a media. Administrations for what was done. In this case, I will return the topic to the public media, namely to BNT and BNR. The Law on BNT and BNR of 2000 know very well that it has not been changed at all. All here, who in one way or another have participated in the committees on culture and media, we see that there are various proposals being made, but never by the essence, on the most ill subject, namely that the public and economic development of the country is very much ahead of the events and facts, and it seems that this law is already narrow and the public requirements for national media have become great. I would like to raise the question of how for our media, and more precisely BNT and BNR, the budget that is voted every year is within the range of 60 to 70 million. lv. You all know very well that until 2017, there was no year in which the finance ministers did not provide personal funds so that the Bulgarian national television could function normally. And, you see, this year is no different. On the contrary, since 2017, when these unregulated funding, personal to the National Television stopped, you see that BNT's debts to date exceed 40 million. BGN, i.e. funds that have been spent for the next year as well. And here I would like to see the problem, and for me the problem started back in 2006, when the criteria for choosing the CEM were removed, because I think we should look from here where the problem actually starts. The problem begins as soon as the requirements for members of the CEM are removed. And following that thought, I would say that those people who choose the future Director General of BNT and BNR are actually people who are chosen, as you all well know, from the quota of parliament and respectively from the quota of the President, without criteria. I'm asking this question because I'm developing it further. The same people further choose the Director General. What we've recorded in art. 66 of the Law on Television and Radio? The only criterion there is to have five years of media work. We live in a free society, we live in a society where money determines how much media could cover one event, another event. For the election of a Director-General is a single condition that you have worked in media. Today's management of the media, whatever you take, requires far more qualities to be possessed. We entrust this man to manage 70 million. lv. We have not set conditions and criteria for whether he could properly manage those, emphasis, public funds, be able to properly reflect public events. And here comes the question: should the choice of Director-General be determined only by this criterion? And how do the state and the people who have given their funds then monitor the spending of these funds? I mean, here the law has huge gaps that I don't know intentionally or by closing my eyes, they're not fixed in time. Because when a CEO chooses a board of directors, he chooses it himself. In other words, who controls the person who spends these funds, I ask a question? Nobody! Once the SEM has chosen it, the SEM also has no right to interfere with the spending of these funds. A simple example, I do not say good or bad, the previous Director-General has decided, for example, that society needs a great deal of sport. Yes, our society is sick, but we can't throw millions forward, walk, and now the new Director General, without mentioning names and specific figures intentionally, television is in debt. Here, I think there should be control, as from this board of directors, and I will express my concrete proposals at the moment we look at the laws. In order to save time for my colleagues, I will also say one more thing. I think the time has come for all of us to unite for having to have criteria, a new way of choosing, starting with the CEM, the Director-General. And here is the huge theme that opened and I will again say thank you to Mr. Kutev, for the media, the commercialization of the media, the management of these media. And another thing is that we put not only the Code of Ethics that we all know, and we are more or less interested in, that there is one, but that this code of ethics is respected by professionals, as has just been said here, the people who are called to do journalism and not to use in their vocabulary no more than a hundred words. Therefore, I believe that the time has come for society to respond to the needs we have for a really modern media, both Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television and all other media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Atanasov, you made a statement. Let me remind you of 14 seconds. Then Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u136	In 14 seconds a whole war is won, don't be like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u137	Then be careful.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u138	I'll be extremely careful.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u139	Time's running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u140	Get a lock on him. Colleagues, you've all read the great book. It's seven volumes by Gore Vidal. He there very clearly describes how American media operate. Every American media announces what it's protecting, which party it's protecting, which corporation it's protecting. That's why they have rights, and that's why they have very clear obligations. And here I'm going to say it with a gesture: we're like this, like this, like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u141	It's over!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u142	There, you see, I did...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u143	And I gave you another 24 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Debate on the issue of asking for government policy regarding media freedom....................................................................................... What can the government do because, in our view, Parliament has already taken serious steps in this direction? Public media elections are regulated, their funding, their functioning, the authorities that care about them can be improved. Parliament also adopted the Law on the Lighting of media ownership, Parliament adopted the Law on offshore companies there is a ban on offshore companies to own media, Parliament adopted a number of provisions such as this one to illuminate who are officials responsible for the policy of certain media to be mentioned in order to make it clear who is responsible for the editorial policy of the media concerned. In terms of private media. Outside of these regulations, any other regulation has one leg regulation, with the other straining of freedom, and we all know that. Whatever we get in there, it's gonna be like the U.S. Constitution used against us. From this point of view, I don't see what any government could do. We could be a little more solid here in this Parliament, with regard to the abuse they are doing with the freedom of speech in Bulgaria, because what is happening, and this 111th place is a bummer. I use that word because I can't think of a stronger word. What reporters without borders, my revered young friend and colleague Krum Zarkov?! I don't have any respect for them, I don't care about their international rating at all, and I'll tell you why, because everything they do is dictated by Soros' interest in societies, NGOs and media funded by them. Everything else for them is absolutely taboo, they don't care at all. Examples: in the Bulgarian air, in the Bulgarian media environment leaked some emails of Soros organizations and their media, which none of them denied that they were forged or untrue or something like Median WikiLeaks. There what was said by Prokopiev: we own the mainstream in TV. Directly he ordered editorial officers what policy to conduct and what to do, who to call, which TV to say what to. If this isn't a rude violation of freedom of speech, I don't know what it is.! No, of course not! But for Peevski, we'll read about it, and Mr. Kutev here will use this gum every time, although Mr. Peevsky has said which media he owns, even though chewing gum for the monopoly in distribution and even in the possession of media is pure gum. I will give you an example: see how the topic on which both Mr. Peevski and DPS have been very sensitive for several months yesterday's issue of subsidies is interpreted. There is one cap on top of the media and if Mr. Peevski was omnipresent, now all the TV stations and the public, and all the websites, would be pouring out a single information stream, not five minutes of the word, and it was asked yesterday by Vladislava in two media with a threat that we would notify Reporters without borders because they had downloaded the issue of subsidies. We're not the subject. What's your topic?! How can you be a topic when you have to say that the DPS has the right position on it or at least an honest position, or at least a consistent position! Is this freedom of speech?! This is not freedom of speech, and if we are objective, we need to see what is being done in this direction. It's obviously not Mr. Peevsky! It's obviously not Mr. Peevsky! Obviously, there are other factors, obviously there are other organizations that influence this process. So I will not and cannot prevent you from stretching your gum, but each time I will object with facts and arguments, as I do now, as I did before, as we will continue to do with all my colleagues. The first condition to have freedom of speech is to have as few regulations as possible. The second condition is that there should be transparency "who is who." The third condition is that funding is clear. The fourth condition is what are the dependencies of this funding. The fifth condition is how public media are managed. That's what I'm gonna end up with. I am a member of the Temporary Commission for what happened in the Programme "Modern" "Sylvia Velieva." Her portfolio was taken from her! Did you know, Mr. Kutev, that we currently have a letter in the same committee from other journalists, to whom the new leadership, under the influence of the Protestants from the same group and the newly appointed CEM director, has taken away other journalists' portfolios and redirected them? Did you hear about the protests? I didn't hear you protest from here either. Only the Commission will deal with it now and listen to them. You see what hypocrisy is about in the same media, where Sylvia Velieva and Soros's organizations and Prokopiev bring only one point of view... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u145	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u146	...where... Be condescending to me for 30 seconds! Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u147	It's me, look. I really am.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u148	I'll finish the last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u149	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u150	...organized the media because their owners are directly interested, they are in conflict of interest. The prosecutor, who has been elected chief prosecutor, has charged them, the KKCONPI has confiscated and confiscated their property, the publishers have arranged for their media to reflect one-way and one-way and one-off, and organise protests. Isn't that influence and addiction?! Stand up and say it! Total influence and dependence. This is not freedom of the media! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u151	Bravo! [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u152	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I spoke for the first time today about the media and I did not mention Peevski. You mentioned it many times. I did not mention it, not because I do not think that it is relevant to the freedom of the media and, in particular, to their violation, especially in its media, I believe that they do not give freedom of expression to journalists and tendentively reflect everything, but I did not mention it, because I believe that it is not the only problem. I don't know if he's in charge, but he's not the only one. Since I wanted to get the conversation out of that direction, that's why I was talking about all the other things, including what you were talking about at the end. I don't have those letters, but what I stood for was the independence of journalists, no matter what direction. So at least in this part we think alike. The other one I actually got the line for. Look, especially with regard to private media, there is no way the state works through regulations, but regulation towards private media should be stimulating. The public function of private media must be stimulated, including financially, with all the rules that you have listed with transparency and so on. But stimulating the public function of private media is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u154	Thank you. Are there any other lines? Mr. Tsonev, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kutev, for the opportunity to speak for another three minutes, although I'm unlikely to be able to use them. Since I was not present at your speech, and I only asked my colleagues in what direction it was in, I am glad that you did not mention Mr Peevski's name today, but this has nothing to do with it. In the context of your speech, this problem is also present, and you have now said that it is a problem. I continue to say that it is not a problem, and if you get acquainted with the whole activity in detail, including the legislative initiatives of Mr Peevski and the DPS group, you will see that there is no way that this is a problem. Well, to make the prokopiev people, to make Sasho Donchev publishers, I quote them, as they are publishers of media, publicly known, to do the same to all others to lighten up, to do as the Bulgarian Prime Minister did to express here, from this tribune, respect. Because you said, "Okay, you have a suspicion of spreading." The state will distribute them through the Post Office. Where's the addiction?! Yeah, that's what's gonna happen, and I'm pretty sure that's gonna happen. Let's unite around what's the main problem. The main problem in my opinion, firstly, is that Bulgaria does not deserve 111th place, which we owe it thanks to Soros organizations and their non-border reporters. Bulgaria is not there and if they stop slandering and reflect the one-sided problems and Bulgaria is still there, it will be there precisely because of these publications and because of the example I have given. It is monstrous that oligarch publishers who have an indictment, which they have of two bodies, have the Prosecutor's Office and the KKCONPI, seized property, to use their media against the legal procedure for choosing those who press charges. It's a monstrous lack of media freedom! And if only this fact is reflected by Reporters without borders, we will go from 111st to 211st place. Thank God it won't be reflected by Reporters without borders because it didn't get rid of them. And the 111th place is not due to the reasons that reporters without borders and everyone else, it is due to these people and their slanders. And here we do not unite for fear of spitting on us, because they are very progressive, they are the peak of progress, they are There's no such thing! They're just bastards.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to this debate, we have demonstrated a desire to lead it for several months, we are not afraid to lead it. We also have the will to continue to lead it, although it is very difficult from a legislative point of view. There are two major problems. The first is freedom of speech, which I think is the more serious and more complex issue. The second is the way the media is financed. He is also somewhat connected with freedom of speech. Why is the question of freedom of speech serious? First of all, because freedom of speech can hardly be defined within a legal framework or in a law. If we hold a debate on what it means to be free of speech, I am sure that there will be a variety of opinions here that will differ, and in all likelihood will not lead to any consensus. The big question is that worldwide there is a transformation of the media environment. We see here symptoms of these processes. The media in the world, and rather the newspapers, began to disappear with the appearance of the Internet. Yes, perhaps with the spread there was some local problem in Bulgaria, but also in the UK and throughout Western Europe, all over the western world newspapers began to stop and transform into websites. Models of funding were tried on the websites through their funding by their readers.. Murdoch tried to do so, this attempt failed. And we actually have one... [[People representatives Anton Kutev and Yordan Tsonev are speaking.]] Mr. Kutev, can I have your distraction? He can't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u158	Please, Mr. Kutev, Mr. Tsonev, interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u159	We have a global problem that doesn't... [[Deputy President Emil Hristov spoke with MPs from BSP about Bulgaria.]] Okay, I'll wait then.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u160	Wait 10 seconds for the Members of the National Assembly to specify. Mr. Hristov, I think he has something important to say to our group, so it was this brief distraction. You may proceed, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u161	With a single sentence, the problem is not only Bulgarian. I think we'd be wrong if we went to personalize it. Is one person, are two oligarchs, is the person Mr. Peevski, is Mr. Prokopiev more where there is a problem, these are symptoms of the problem. Any situation will lead to some kind of personalization, but if we start solving the personal issue, we will not essentially solve the issue of our big problem. And the big problem is that during this transformation of the media, which took place, I repeat, not only in Bulgaria, private media have become a business, they have always been business, but now they are even more business. Each private media, in the first place, aims to earn money from its owner, from there, of course, to protect its interests. When the owner is more wealthy and the media is greater, he tries to gain political influence through his media by defending his point of view. And so we are witnessing a pluralism, which, however, does not take place in a media, which enables all points of view, but is carried out through various media that suggest their point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u162	That's not pluralism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u163	Yeah, it's not pluralism in that good way. Pluralism, however, exists in public media where the state participates, where society participates with its money. And no one can argue that in Bulgarian public media there is pluralism of the points of view, there is pluralism of the points of view. I therefore believe that we should continue to have this debate, but not from the point of view of our addictions in depth. We must not be a party to this matter. We must try to be an arbitrator on this matter, to see every point of view! Those who are trying to finance their media through political influence also have their arguments I'm telling you what reality is, not what I want. In my opinion, we should not overestimate ourselves on this subject, so I agree to have such a debate...... to conduct it gradually with arguments, with a desire of small steps, if we have to achieve any results in this part. The most important thing at the moment is to keep public media, because they are the place where we can hear all views. And this is our commitment as both Parliament and Government. Yesterday during the budget in the Transitional and Final Regulations, we adopted a point where the Council of Ministers committed itself to drafting legislation on public media funding. This is an extremely important issue, and this will be another step towards this debate, which you are raising, and you are willing to participate. In this regard, I will also make a procedural proposal.. We are ready to support your proposed solution with two small editorials. The first is to change the deadline for not being "1 February 2020" but to be "31 March 2020" as it is written in the budget so that we can move in sync. The second proposal. You say: The Council of Ministers should propose to the National Assembly a strategy for the development of the media environment and we propose this to be a plan because the strategy means to change laws, to introduce the strategy into the Law, which will most likely take technical time and I do not see how much a strategy written in itself will solve this issue. I believe that it can be resolved through a dialogue within the procedure, but without a great deal of excessive traffic and traffic with procedures. So with these proposals, I think that today we can shake hands and say: yes, we will have this debate, we will conduct it honestly. [[the President signals that time has run out]] and for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens because the media, first of all, should serve the citizens not politicians and not only their owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, first of all, to apologize for disturbing the order in this House for a moment was not intentional or disrespectful, but in an effort to provide an opportunity for the next action that we will take. And I apologize to Mr. Bikov for interrupting the speech. Once we have finished and adopted the proposed draft decision, I will tell you the next item of our work for today. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In a nutshell, I'd like to make three points. The first of them is that we really need a plan, a strategy, let's not formalize how to name the document that will be made. We, as the National Assembly, in this term have one unsuccessful and one semi-successful attempt at some regulation of freedom of speech. There were serious arguments here that the proposed project for brightening media publishers contributed to the lightening of the media environment. I would like to tell you that a year and something since the adoption of the Law, we still don't have the register, dear Minister. Let us be so good as to accept some law that it is fulfilled. The regulation, I think, is from 8 May this year, but still on the Ministry's website there is no such register as to be public and used by everyone. Aren't we fighting for the media to be brightened? And the second, to remind you of the case of the Personal Data Protection Act, the paragraph that repealed it by the Constitutional Court. I then warned that we were entering into a degree of freedom of speech and the restriction of journalists in their profession. You didn't agree with me as the only one who defended this thesis. Let us well know that freedom of speech does have some criteria, there are some measurers. Freedom of speech can also be defined, because freedom of expression is one thing, freedom of speech is another. And the third. I am pleased that in this National Assembly we have a desire of all to work on a very flexible and important issue with fellow journalists, because the system of media use to hit other media, to hit a politician, to hit one who disagrees with your opinion, as well as the system of nahranning journalists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u166	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Do we have lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Chenchev. [[Radio, shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] Colleagues, the group hasn't used up the time it's due.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I will ask you to be correct and give these two minutes above which you have given to our colleagues, because I know there is another statement. Thank you also for your dialogue, thank you for having reached a decision to have a deadline with regard to the plan or strategy. You see, here the issue is such that the public media themselves want, and that is known by the members of the Committee on Culture and Media, to have a new model of funding, so that they do not fall depending on government and prime minister, any government, any prime minister, whatever his name is. They themselves want it and said it in this committee. I think this is a fundamental issue that I am glad to have been debated here for so long. Indeed, the issue is about the policies of the government of the Council of Ministers, with regard to guaranteeing freedom of speech. That's the important topic. Otherwise, we have a problem. And this problem, contrary to the notion that the drowning man's salvation is only the drowning person's problem, is a problem for all of us. [[Reply by MP Vejdi Rashidov.]] Mr. Rashidov, you're right about this. Thank you for your consent. If you want, give me a line on the same issue of guaranteeing freedom of speech. Thank you for understanding once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Just a few words may be in support of Mr. Tsonev's statement. Look, there is another small danger that we missed because Mr. Tsonev has serious concerns in one regard when other people are already crossing the borders of freedom and entering the territory not only of business, as Mr. Bikov said, but also of influence over policies. I'd go a little further. My concerns about public media are perhaps the most tolerant in their positions in society, pluralism of opinions, of course, but, I would say, not to the end. Exactly, just those media that Mr. Tsonev mentioned are slowly entering with the purchase of souls and consciences. I would not like to say here by roll call even shows, the grenades we often call that, they also externally influence the public media on the minds of our society. Once again, I am glad that in this room, whatever we have talked about, we are all of the same opinion that the time has come to sit very seriously, along with all the media and to really create some human ways for 30 years has not been done this thing, the 21st century is to walk, as people say, hand in hand all together, because we all need each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u170	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Zarkov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, thanks for participating in the debate. A few things. Firstly, we accept the proposals they made by GERB party to our draft decision with which it will be adopted, I hope, unanimously. He assigns certain tasks to the Council of Ministers, namely within a certain deadline to give a plan for improving the media environment in Bulgaria, which is also our common finding and understanding that in the media environment in Bulgaria there are serious problems which are ultimately problems of Bulgarian freedom and democracy. What can the government do?Sounded several times. A few things the government can do. The first thing the government can do is actually make sure that this subject is not used for absolutely brutal bickering and throwing accusations. Secondly, to see its own interventions, such as large resources, which the government distributes in the form of advertising under various operational programmes, funds and so on, there can be done much more transparency, but especially what it can do is regulate public media as the only reliable source of so-called pluralism or where the state can contribute to this guarantee. By the way, all polls show that Bulgarian citizens have the most confidence in the news that they watch on BNT and listen on BNR. And that is why there is a reason, because they know that there by law all views must be reflected. As for private media, we have already had the opportunity to say how delicate and difficult regulation is there, but I will not stop repeating that we have now agreed that there is a debate, but a debate is impossible if you deny the legitimacy of the other point of view. If we keep throwing tags at each and every one of us that we disagree with, if the one who says something is sorosoid, communist, fascist, dirty, bought, anything, then everything that says goes into a war, it's not a debate, it's a denial of debate. I hope today and on this subject that we will begin to see what is said, not who is saying it. Finally, regarding the charts in which Bulgaria is in poor places in freedom of speech. The truth is that these rankings are seriously made by many criteria. They're not some kind of circle that pays something. It's not like that. That doesn't mean we should just take them as if God was talking. Check them out, criticize them, whatever you want to do, but let it be so that it makes sense of this criticism. We don't need to bury our head in the sand there are problems, solutions are possible and I'm sure we can find them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u172	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Firstly, I will put the amendments to the vote and then I will now put the draft decision to the vote with the amendments adopted. Dear Minister, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you all for this debate. It feels pretty clear. You all, regardless of which political forces you represent, have one attitude and it is to act together and wisely in support of freedom of speech, which in fact means in support of democracy, for which I thank you. I also thank you for having adopted a decision yesterday by which you obliged me to submit to the government by 31 March a draft law amending and supplementing the Radio and Television Act, bringing the fund part to Radio and TV in accordance with the Public Finance Act, and even more important with State aid rules. What, as it became clear, will be adopted unanimously, whether you will choose the word "Strategy" or something else, again by 31 March voted, of course, in the direction of the decision of yesterday, only gives the government an impetus within these three months to do its operational work, so that, especially in the part of "Public Media" it can have a clearer, firmer and long-term environment for the way of funding. With regard to private media as Minister of Culture, I would like to say very clearly: any additional regulations are outside the context of democratic processes and the development of the state. The government, including with the Prime Minister's decision regarding the distribution of printed publications through the Bulgarian Post Office, including with the proposal of the Minister of Finance, which you adopted, by 31 March there is a decision of the Fund of Radio and TV, is actively trying to provide conditions and clarity for the development of public media, which are the key to pluralism, which makes a media real media. The bill, which was tabled yesterday, I regret that it was not submitted a few days before that, perhaps it would give a starting point of view to many of you to make the debate even more qualitative and meaningful. I bothered to read it, but now, if I start analyzing it, it's basically just gonna be me and the importers. Once again, thank you, on behalf of the government, for the debate that you have had and for the clear sign that you are giving to society that democracy is the most important thing that we should all stand for forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal for replacement in the text made by the MP Toma Bikov. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. I will now present to you the draft decision as submitted by the importers: Project! DECISION in relation to the questions referred to in Article 954-05-39/17 of September 2019 by National Representative Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyl Banov on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers by 1 February 2020 to propose to the National Assembly a Strategy for the Development of the Media Environment in Bulgaria, which will also contain a model for financing public media, guaranteeing their financial and editorial independence. I put to the vote the presented draft decision with the proposed amendments by the National Representative Toma Bikov. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, we are going to vote again on an item on the agenda. I will present to you the draft law on ratification of the Agreement, which was voted on today: Project! LAW on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between The Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as a beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the European Investment Bank, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019. A single member. It ratifies the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as a beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding (EAD) for the financing of the project "Interest gas connection Greece" (Greek), No 902-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 November 2019, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 October 2019 in Sofia and by the European Investment Bank on 17 October 2019 in Luxembourg. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a Member only as presented to you. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. New questions concerning the period from 29 November 2019 to 5 December 2019: There has been a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, about improving access to pharmacies and improving pharmaceutical care. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 13 December 2019. We don't have written answers to serve. We are continuing with a question for Ms Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child 30 years from her adoption and the government's actions to improve the policy for children in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Nikolova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 20 November 1989, the UN General Assembly adopted a Convention on the Rights of the Child, which became the most widely ratified international treaty in Bulgaria and the world. This year we celebrate the 30th anniversary of its adoption. Bulgaria has been ratified by the Seventh Grand National Assembly in 1991. Since then it has been part of the country's internal law according to the Constitution and also gives rise to the overall change in the policy for children in Bulgaria. In the beginning of 2000, the Child Protection Act was adopted, and as of 1 January 2001, a specialized state body has been developing, coordinating, monitoring and controlling the state policy for children is the State Agency for Child Protection. At the beginning of 2008, the National Assembly adopted the first National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018. I made this brief historical review to stress that the recognition of the child as a holder of rights is the result of a long historical and legislative process in Bulgaria. Under the active targeted and coordinated activity of state institutions, civil society structures and every citizen depends on an effective policy for children and guaranteeing their rights. Therefore, the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the Convention is not just a cause for celebrations or a political PR, but a thorough analysis of the long-term state policy for children based on national agreement. In this regard, my question to you is: 30 years after the ratification of the Convention in Bulgaria how is the government of the Republic of Bulgaria, to which you are a member, helping improve the policy for children in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u176	You have the floor to answer, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, Republic of Bulgaria signed the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child on 1 June 1990 and ratified it by a decision of the Seventh Grand National Assembly of 11 April 1991. One of the most significant achievements of ratification of the Convention is the creation of the Child Protection Act adopted in 2000, as well as the construction of the child protection system in the Republic of Bulgaria. The law governs the rights, principles and measures for the protection of the child, the authorities of the state and the municipalities, as well as their responsibilities and interactions in the implementation of child protection activities and the participation of legal and natural persons in such activities, taking into account the specifics of Bulgarian law and family traditions. The adoption of the Child Protection Act in 2001 established a special body of the executive, committed to children's policies, namely the State Agency for Child Protection. National Council for Child Protection with representatives of institutions and organizations who have responsibilities under the policy for children: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the National Insurance Institute, the National Statistical Institute, the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, the Central Commission for Combating Anti-social Events of Minors and Minors at the Council of Ministers, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and 12 Civil Organizations. In the past years, the main challenge facing the child protection system has been the institutional form of caring for children, a model that had no alternative until 2000. The high number of children placed in institutions - 12 thousand 609 children in 165 institutions in 2001 - was a major problem facing the state in its efforts to modernise, to synchronise the care system in accordance with the interests and rights of children and European standards. National strategy was created with a vision for the deinstitutionalization of children in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Strategy stated that within 15 years all 137 institutions for children will be shut down by developing a family type of care and will not be allowed to accommodate and raise children for up to 3 years in resident care of any type after the reform is completed. Many are achieved in the policies for the protection of children in Bulgaria: the programs for the protection of mother and child health; the high level of social insurance rights for maternity leave; the interinstitutional mechanism for bringing children back to school where more than 40 thousand children are covered. There are many challenges to the system and much more to be done. The services for positive parenting must be developed: prenatal and postnatal services and family care programmes; the establishment of an information system and interinstitutional links necessary for the formulation and implementation of adequate policies; the improvement of coordination in the protection system; the professionalization of human resources in the system and others. To celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Convention with the participation of a number of institutions, a special week is organized with events dedicated to the anniversary. A postmark entitled "Together to help children achieve their dreams" was valid. The award was presented: "I guarantee a happy childhood of institutions, municipalities and organizations. A celebration of good on the Day of the Christian Family and Youth on 21 November 2019 in the National Palace of Culture was realized. Participants in the cultural and entertainment program were 700 talented children from all over Bulgaria. The awards were given: an ambassador to the good news of personalities who helped children and families in distress. A capsule of good was placed in the National Assembly building to be opened in 2030. A solemn meeting of the National Council for Child Protection was held, which issued a special declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Line, Mrs. Halacheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Nikolova, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From Mrs. Nikolova's reply, I can conclude that this is part of the State Agency for Child Protection's report on the adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Despite what you said, however, Ms Nikolova, and also after the adoption of the state budget yesterday, I can only make one conclusion. It is that there is no targeted, clear, state policy in the protection of Bulgarian children and also a comprehensive approach in support of the Bulgarian family. Children in Bulgaria live in poverty and poverty. Less and less children are born, more and more uneducated and sick. That proves, unfortunately, with a few unpleasant facts. Namely, the data for 2019 show that nearly 45% of children in Bulgaria live at risk of poverty and social exclusion; 40% of them are functionally illiterate and every fourth child in Bulgaria suffers from obesity, which also affects its health. Therefore, my recommendation to you is to follow and adhere strictly to the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child on the performance of our country's obligations under the Convention, namely the recommendations made in 2016 regarding the Third, Fourth and Fifth Periodic Report given by Bulgaria, because only in this way can we guarantee better rights for children in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. A hole? You have the floor, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, I would like to further inform you that at the special meeting of the National Council for Child Protection on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, its members expressed their will that in 2020, it is necessary to discuss achievements in the field of children's policies with all stakeholders, as well as to unite to implement the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in relation to children's and family policies. The fact is that good legislation also requires effective implementation in order for the rights provided for in the Convention to change the lives of every child. To this end, the policies and practices we are building, the resources and leadership we have must constantly develop and enrich, but also explain to society, parents and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u182	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. We are moving on to a question for Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. The question is from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov about the election of director of the National Art Gallery. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Banov, Mrs. Minister! On 25 November, only three days after our colleague Alexander Simov and I asked a question: who is the new elected director of the largest cultural institution in Bulgaria, namely the National Art Gallery, it became clear that this was a race with a famous ending. There is no person in the artistic circles who, if you had asked him nearly a year ago, when he started the procedure: who will be the new director and he will not tell you that this will be Mrs. Iara Bubnova. Since the day the proceedings were announced, the scandals related to this choice are daily. All I recall is that a large number of potential candidates gave up this race because of the rules that were laid. They were assessed as rules created for a particular candidate, and there was clear and obvious protection from the Ministry of Culture to this candidate, namely to Mrs. Yara Bubnova. As I said earlier, I will now remind you who Mrs. Bubnova herself is. Her name is associated with the scandalous exhibition of Oda J'onn in the National Art Gallery, known as the Big Eater. It itself was declared in a discrepancy and conflict of interest by the Ministry of Culture in a report by your Ministry for performing the post of Director of the National Art Gallery and at the same time was head of the private Institute for Contemporary Art. The same Mrs. Bubnova was appointed commissioner of the Bulgarian participation in the 58th Venice Biennial, which was once again accompanied by a number of scandals, problems and ended with a great success, but at the same time over half a million leva were spent. In the very course of the director's contest, there were also a number of violations: non-compliance with time limits, opaqueness and hiding, let's say, the chosen candidate, because he was announced well after the deadline for this. The procedure and the way to conduct the competition not only did they not create competitiveness, but also created a sense of doom. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, after everything you have heard at the moment, I would be interested to know: with what motives have you formalized Mrs. Yara Bubnova's election as Director of the National Art Gallery? And I repeat: a long-standing choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u184	Thank you. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Sidorova, Dear Mr. Simov! In relation to your question, I inform you of the following, without spreading in private statements. On 8 November 2019 in the Ministry of Culture, in execution of an order from 1 October 2019, was held a competition for taking up the position of Director of the National Gallery of Sofia. In accordance with art. 5, para. 5 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture The competition is carried out on a record on the website of the Ministry of Culture and everyone can see it, track it, proanalyze it, including at this time, including five years from now, everyone can see whether the Commission has made the right decision or not. The Commission has examined the documents submitted by the applicants. The professional qualities, the skills of each of the participants for presenting and protecting the relevant concept for the development of the National Gallery are assessed in the conduct of the interviews. For each of the candidates, the members of the Commission have filled out separate evaluation cards 11, para. 4 t. 3 of Ordinance No H-4 of 14 June 2007 on competitions for directors of state cultural institutes. In accordance with art. 11, para. 4 t. 3 of the same regulation, a successful winner of the competition is considered to be the candidate who has collected not less than two thirds of the maximum number of points in the evaluation cards, namely two thirds of 1056 points, equal to 704 points. On the basis of the assessments put forward by the members of the competition committee, the results of the candidate are as follows: Ms. Nadezhda Jackova 615 points. By the way, Mrs. Nadezhda Djakova is the curator of the exhibition, about which you mentioned The two candidates dropped out of the ranking as they did not receive the required minimum number of points as required by the Ordinance. In view of the total number of points received, the commission ranked first Mrs. Bubnova. The Commission's decision is reflected in a protocol signed by all members and approved by the Minister of Culture. In accordance with art. 15 of the provisions cited above, the result of the contest shall be communicated to the persons involved within 3 days of its conduct. By letters from the Ministry of Culture dated 11 November 2019 each of the participants in the contest were informed. The letters are sent with reverse receipts with the Bulgarian Post Office. From the return to the Ministry of Culture, it is apparent that the persons received their letters from 15 to 19 November 2019 respectively. By procedure after returning the receipts that the letters were received, then we have the authority to announce the ranking and winning candidate. In accordance with art. 16, p. 3 of Ordinance No H-4 on the conduct of competitions for directors to state cultural institutes, a message concerning the ranking of participants in the competition is published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! However, I did not hear the most important answer we ask from you: what are the reasons for the appointment of Yara Bubnova? How did she gain the great privilege and honor of being director of the National Art Gallery? Because I'm sorry, but what you're telling us is purely bureaucratic details. The competition, when another month of May was announced, we can now do a review back of all information publications and we will see that even then it was known that Yara Bubnova will become the head of the National Art Gallery. This was a well-known choice which, on top of that, was corrupted, as from the very beginning it was in conflict of interest and should not have been considered at all. In general, this unpleasant trend in the last year from the Ministry of Culture to come only terrible news.. we are not talking about the development of culture, but we are talking about corruption schemes............. I am............ The choice of Yara Bubnova is vitiated with something else through it, it is known that in this way a small group of artists who have declared themselves the cream of Bulgarian culture continue to parasite on Bulgarian art. I'm sorry, but the answer really does not satisfy us because the most important accent is not in it: what did Yara Bubnova, the uncanny candidate, even though she is in violation of the Law? What of her qualities made her the only candidate known in advance that she would become the head of the National Art Gallery? I apologize for the emotional tone, but the subject in these circles has been clear for a long time. Without people having prophetic abilities, March knew who would be appointed director of the National Art Gallery because there was virtually no competition. Yaara Bubnova was the favorite of the Ministry of Culture and was eventually imposed. And the favorite continues to be. And it will continue to impose its favorite group of artists to be made out to us as the best thing Bulgarian culture can offer. The National Art Gallery doesn't deserve that kind of attitude. You know how long it's been created, you know? You know who her maker is? We should not treat Bulgarian culture in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Simov, Dear Members of Parliament! You continue to make statements that have not been proven and, in this sense, there is nothing to comment on. It's in terms of pre-awareness of choice. I can't tell you. I didn't know who would be elected myself. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Simov.]] Newspapers can know what they want. There are three people who are candidates, of the three people one is acting as Director and the other is part of the National Gallery and is the head of the Contemporary art and the third is respected by us artist. Between the three of us, one will win. In any case, I say again, the competitions exactly in view of such a case are held online and on record, so that you and I should probably not speculate so much with the Bulgarian public. Let's sit together, watch the tape and then see if your claims are correct or not. Together let's go out in front of people and say: it's true. It's inside the tape that sits everything: the concept, the way they develop it. Furthermore, the points are so diametrically opposing here there is not even any proximity to the points to say: there was some doubt in the Commission, concern. Keep in mind that the Commission is now not to list people inside, but are quite a large part of the elite of Bulgarian fine art. What you're trying to say to the public that the Ministry of Culture has been linked to scandals for a year doesn't honor you. Inspiring certain scandals, as well as this attempt to inspire scandals, does not mean there are scandals. The ministry is working quite seriously and this is reported everywhere in the country and in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Water. The first question to her is from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov and the National Representative Violeta Zheleva on projects related to the reduction of water losses and restoration of the irrigation infrastructure. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The problem of water supply in arable agricultural areas has become more and more up-to-date in recent years. In the past, our country had a very well developed tidal system, now it is extremely depreciated, and much of the hydromeliorative facilities have been destroyed. This leads to large losses and low efficiency in the use of water resources and consequently to a higher irrigation price. The provision of a national European budget for targeted investment in the restoration of the hydromeliorative network is an important priority for native agriculture. In October, it was planned to launch the irrigation measure......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard is also my question to you, Minister: what part of the irrigation systems in Haskovo region will be set up for design for the purpose of applying under the Sub- When is the performance expected to start? How many acres of water areas will be served and in which municipalities of the district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u192	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Dinkov and Members of Parliament! First of all, Happy Holiday! Be safe! I'm answering your question. On the territory of Haskovo district is set up for design to apply under the Sub- Freeway channel M-1 is a hydro-meliorative facility from the irrigation system of Trakiets with a total length of 47,515 km, from which 32,258 km are lined. This highway canal provides water for irrigation of 137 thousand. acres of agricultural land with built hydromeliorative infrastructure, of which 70 568 acres are suitable for use. The channel was built and put into operation in 1962 and so far only partial repairs have been carried out on it. There are about two thousand acres annually irrigated, and in 2019 the actual areas of flight are as many as two thousand, one of the reasons for the low useability of the system is its poor condition and the large losses of water in it. The subject of the investment proposal will be the rehabilitation of water-based facilities and unlicensed sections of the canal with a total length of 5518 m, falling within Haskovo municipality as follows: section 1, falling into the land of the village of Thracian and Konush village; section 2 falls into the land of Konush village; section 3 falls into the land of the villages of Konush and Vojvodino; section 4, falling into the land of the village of Vojvodino; section 5 and section 6, falling into the land of the town of Haskovo. Following the implementation of the planned rehabilitation works, the watering areas are expected to increase annually by about 1200 acres and reach around 8 thousand at the end of the programming period. a decare of two at the moment. In fulfilling the conditions laid down in the European Structural Investment Funds Fund Management Act, the deadline for submitting project proposals will be three months, and then within four months an evaluation committee will examine and evaluate the submitted proposals. The implementation of the approved project proposals will begin after the signing of the Treaty for the submission of the aid. At the meeting of the Monitoring Committee, the Managing Authority shall present the members of the Committee who have approved the selection criteria for project proposals, currently developing the rules and documents necessary for applying for support under the Sub-measure, providing for the adoption of project proposals to be launched as early as early as 2020 in the middle of January. Before starting the adoption within a working group, the Managing Authority will hold a broad discussion with stakeholders regarding the rules of implementation of the Sub-measure. That was your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u194	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you have announced what current repairs are being made, what are to be done and what studies will be carried out on the territory of Haskovo District, and more precisely Haskovo Municipality. Haskovo District has a lot of other built meliorative facilities and pumping stations along the Maritsa River, as you know this fact that the Maritsa River goes through the whole area is good, because there are built facilities where they feed irrigation channels that are in very poor condition. This topic is widely discussed, as the recovery of these facilities will lead to much greater productivity in the sector, it will lead to much greater competitiveness. The Strategy for Irrigation Systems also launched the creation of territorial directorates, territorial, regional hydromelioration enterprises, which should cover the entire process, so that in future years the convergence with private farmers and the forms of common activity will increase the efficiency of water agriculture and agriculture in this extremely rich region and area of the Republic of Bulgaria, the establishment of associations to be promoted in this way so that the efficiency will be much greater. In your reply I did not hear what significant things will be done, will be provided for by this project or other measures for Haskovo municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? No, okay. Let's get to the next question. He is from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov regarding burning of stairwells in the land of Oryahovo municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! On my visit to my electoral district, and in particular to Oryahovo municipality, I was repeatedly asked a question by my constituents about the burning of pitchers, especially during the months of the end of August and September this year. Spreading out on what kind of act it is, how it is harmful to the environment, to fauna, how dangerous it can be to forests and plantations around them, I have no intention. The law on the conservation of agricultural land also relates to this issue, where it is classified as a violation and the sanctions imposed are also imposed. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what specific measures have been taken by your office regarding the received signals from Oryahovo Municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u198	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popdimitrov, under European and national law, which applies to the schemes and measures of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, sanctions for burned agricultural areas are imposed in three directions. First, the burning of grates is a violation of National Standard 6. The main requirement to maintain the land in good agricultural and environmental condition, which is part of the requirements for cross compliance. Compliance with cross compliance requirements is a mandatory condition for farmers to receive the full amount of subsidies under direct payments schemes, agri-environment measures from the Rural Programme and payments under measures restructuring the conversion of vineyards and green harvesting from the National Programme for the Support of the Wine Sector in Bulgaria. In accordance with art. 99 of Regulation EU 1306/2013 in the event of negligence in the event of a breach of cross-compliance rules, the reduction rate shall not exceed 5%, in the case of repeated non-compliance, 15%, in the case of intentional non-compliance, the reduction rate shall not be less than 20% and may result in a complete exclusion from one or more support schemes for one or more years. Second, where National Standard 6 is a basic requirement. The processing areas claimed under Measure 10 and Measure 11 and an infringement is found, payment of the measure may be refused in accordance with the applicable regulations. Third, according to Art. 10, para. 2 of Regulation 2 of 26 March 2018 on eligibility criteria for support for agricultural areas or parts thereof for which they are found to be burned in the calendar year are considered unsuitable for support and are excluded. For the period on the basis of signals submitted by farmers, inter alia and above all, and at the request of the largest branch organisations, in the period February "November 2019" by the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The signals were mainly received by the Department of Fire Safety and Protection to the Ministry of Interior and Citizens, most affected by the districts of Ruse, Razgrad, Pleven, Montana and Haskovo. The inspection teams found mostly burns of grain-grain stalks, areas with corn, sunflowers, rape, pastures and dry grasses. The location of the fires is located with GPS devices and measurements of the affected areas have been carried out. All farmers found not to comply with the prohibitions are sanctioned with a percentage of the subsidy to be paid to them after all other checks have been completed. Unlawful practices in the burning of grates and other plant residues have been established in total in 244 applicants, 421 agricultural plots have been affected and the area burned is 20 510 decares in this campaign. I would like to say that at the annual meeting of farmers, the industry organisations reported the utility of the measures that were taken and thanked for the rapid reaction, as this organisation was made at their request. However, I would like to tell you that the municipality of Oryahovo does not have a single signal. There are for Vratsa district signals from Borovan Municipality, Byala Slatina and Miziya. Ten applicants with 12 agricultural plots affected and excluded from support were identified from the checks carried out under these alerts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Popdimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for the information you have given about the legal framework of our current and European legislation, as well as the measures you are taking. I hope that they will be more effective, but I have at least three complaints from Oryahovo Municipality to you with incoming numbers with dates from 30 August to the end of September. If for any reason they haven't reached you, even though they have incoming numbers, I will take care to send them to you so you can meet them, although two or three months later, which is said. There is a detailed description of a vicious practice of burning the jars by the land users themselves in late evenings and their repression and ploughing of the land in the early morning, when it is already difficult to establish the act committed, but these signals are there and they have been since 30 August, the first. So I'm surprised at what you said you didn't receive any signals. I promise you that I will provide you with the signals that are with me to see that there is some omission in the activities of your office regarding the coverage of the signals of citizens and organisations, as there are signals from organizations there too. I hope you will clarify this fact so that it can be excluded in the future as a phenomenon in your communication with citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u203	I can't help but get a line. I absolutely cannot agree with this assessment, for the simple reason that, again, the emergency inspection organisation was set up at the request of representatives of the major branch organizations and checked every single signal to cause a fire. And never, in any campaign has there been so many areas excluded from aid due to burning.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. We are going to the next and last question to you from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev regarding the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in the places for the disposal of animals killed by African swine fever in 2019. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! In 2019, the scope of African swine fever in Bulgaria spread quite widely. The situation in Northern Bulgaria is also very disturbing, especially in Ruse region, because there about 80% of pigs were affected and had to put their animals to death. I'm not talking about killing myself. Here we will address the theme of the burial - a rather unconventional and unused practice in Bulgaria, I hope it will not be used on this scale anymore. I would also stress that it is quite disturbing the situation with the very choice of places of burial. This was accompanied by many places with protests, with resentment, change of places, how this choice happened, but this is already a fact the animals are purchased and are buried. After all, the animals killed and their situation with the burial, which we have warned about repeatedly, have no clarity. There is no clarity, as I said, in the selection of the disposal sites, in the disinfection of these sites, in the measures to limit the spread of the infection of the sites, in the prevention of contamination and protection of groundwater. In addition to the corpses of those animals killed, they were killed with chemical elements that also enter the groundwater. How does this prevent further environmental disaster? There is silence and this silence causes a lot of concern, fear, even anger in people and increases mistrust of the institutions, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, all stakeholders, especially the institutions. It is for this reason that our question to you is: what measures and actions has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry taken or will the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry take on the disposal sites of the animals killed by African swine fever in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoilov, everything you ask about is repeatedly spoken in the course of the episode that was during the summer and here in this room. I have nothing else to do but repeat everything I have repeatedly said from this tribune and which is widely known to everyone, especially from the affected areas. How are the disposal sites selected? Regulation No 22 of 2006 Several state authorities agreeing to the designation of such a site in coordination with the Swimming Directorate, with the Regional Environmental Protection Inspectorate. In the contingent plans of each settlement, on each registered site followed some had, others didn't, it's an inability to have a certain place to bury if it comes to such a hypothesis in the event of epizootomy, whatever it may be. This is part of the general rule of readiness for response to such epizootics. Neither does the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry define this place, nor any service, and this has been very clear and clarified throughout the campaign. There is nothing new to say in this regard, nothing that needs to be done yet, as there is a very clear regulation for the procedure for determining the terrains. In this regard, everything that happened in the summer, I can thank the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Minister for issuing an order, under which, within 2 hours of a proposal, the procedure for examining the sites had to be initiated. And it was over. You can ask any of the eight, in practice, industrial objects that were affected by this, so on this topic I quoted it again for the nth time in this room. The new is how we then control the respective sites, as well as the terrains on which the respective burial was carried out, which was determined, again I say, in the appropriate order of this regulation and the corresponding several bodies that effectively control these topics. From now on, according to information from the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain, a significant number of animals have been buried in the carcass trenches, 1700 settlements from 179 municipalities in Bulgaria and 130,000 domestic pigs have been affected. The question is, how do we control these playgrounds about what happened in the summer? There's order for that too. In view of the future risk of groundwater contamination in the rot process with toxic biogenic amines and a number of other harmful substances, the Ministry of Environment and Water has established a strategy for research and monitoring of the built-up carcass pits. Monitoring will show if there are any changes in the chemical performance of groundwater. Up to three or four nut drillings will be carried out for carcass pits with buried over 100 animals and one or two drills for smaller pits. All this, according to the ownership of the site, of the property, is a commitment either of the industrial sites where this is in their territory or of the local authorities, which is in their territory. The only thing I can say is that the gaps that were identified six months ago in the summer campaign should not be allowed. Each populated area and must now have such a contingent plan, in which clearly, in accordance with the respective order referred to, repeatedly explained here, there must be a designated reaction site for relevant registered epizootics.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u208	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this is not a random question, despite multiple responses, but because all leading researchers of African swine fever, which is not a single disease and can hardly be stopped, say that this disease is much more dangerous than it was originally considered. That is why its distribution not only in Europe, but mostly in China, is subject to serious research. Leading specialists and experts say that this disease and in general the issue of corpses is extremely important because they treat it as biologically hazardous waste, for which the measures can be both annihilation and the safest burning method. From this point of view, our question is: for 2019, what happened, and what lessons have we learned? Because, as the Minister of Environment and Water said, 60% of the sites referred to during the July crisis have been rejected because they did not meet the requirements laid down in this particular regulation, i.e. that they are not close to establishments, to settlements, all these issues that need to be preciseed and at which their time is now. Our additional questions to you are: In this period, when the crisis is at a slower pace anyway, is it necessary to specify the places and places where animal disposal is possible? The second question, which is also important to me: is there a map of the sites where animals are now buried, not only around industrial farms, but also in forest areas, and is there a designation of the infected areas that should also be present in order to know that this is an area that is infected? And perhaps as a comment, the monitoring of the municipality concerned is entrusted with the RIEW. But do you think that they have enough potential and the ability to carry out this monitoring in the parameters that relate to groundwater, air and all other elements that lead to environmental pollution? The issue is rather of concern, because in a crisis, the reaction must be instantaneous and ready. The crisis won't knock on your door and say: I'll be there in a month. Now, at the moment, there must be readiness on all these issues that in July and August created problems, tensions, and you know them as well as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, thank you for your reply, because once again it shows the truthfulness of everything I have spoken from here. Yes, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Minister quoted these data, which once again shows that it is not the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests that defines the sites for burial but the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Yeah, and who suggested the power playgrounds, the owner, where the episode was? It was the owners of industrial farms and this was done through the appropriate procedures and meetings of regional epizootic committees, and where it was in the personal holdings the respective mayor of the settlement again during the procedure of regional epizootic committees. The authorities at the Ministry of Environment and Water are undoubtedly the specialists, professionals, such is the regulatory regulation, the regulation that I quoted said which site can be used for these purposes. With regard to follow-up monitoring of sites where animals are buried, of course the owner should take care of them. The owner of the site must fulfil all obligations arising from events that have occurred and obligations that have been undertaken. That is why I said that industrial farms, if they own the site, is their responsibility, and the local authorities, of course, where personal farms in the settlements are concerned, are their responsibility. This is neither complicated nor resourceful, so I am convinced that the local authority concerned can do so, and the authorities of the Ministry of Environment and Water control the process and the relevant results where the specialists are. At the moment, since the peak of this disease is summer, you have to be defined in every single settlement. Where there are no such plots in the contingent, by the appropriate decree to be determined. This is part of the roadmap for the preparedness and prevention of the disease. It is the responsibility of the authorities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to control that these contingent plans contain all the things that need to be found in the summer, which we found as gaps and the terrains were determined with such urgency. The Minister is right, indeed some terrains that have been proposed have been refused, and so must it be, because we must ensure that the environment is protected. It is the duty that BABBH must now comply with, namely to have certain such sites available. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next, a question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Ivanov and Tasco Ermenkov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of a water regime in certain settlements and the need for investments in the infrastructure in the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for this. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our question is related to the critical situation that was created in the water sector at the moment with the water supply of people. You know that about 300,000 Bulgarian citizens currently live in conditions of almost primitive generality in terms of water supply. The problem is so serious that yesterday even the President of the Republic of Bulgaria caused a meeting and discussion on this topic. It is somehow unacceptable, of course, in modern Bulgaria to say that the drought is the one that is the main reason for not having water. For us the reasons why there is no water in Bulgaria are related not only to climate features, but also to systemic errors that have been made over the years and which have found, unfortunately, their expression today, this year, to the emergence of a water crisis in Shumen. Pernik is a particularly eloquent example of what is happening. Therefore, Madam Minister, we would like to point out to you that in recent years we have been actively commenting on the need for serious capital investments in a water infrastructure. According to the analyses drawn up by the World Bank, in the adopted Strategy for the Development of the Water Sector for 2014 - 2023, the amount needed for infrastructure investments is more than 12 billion. lv. for the whole country. In this regard, Madam Minister, we would like to ask you what is the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for solving the problems of certain settlements suffering from a shortage of drinking water and eliminating the prerequisites for this? Do commercial companies, the so-called water operators, have the necessary financial resources to invest in the neural water supply infrastructure which creates prerequisites for the existence of a water regime? Do you believe that the planned financial resources under Operational Programme "Environment" planned for investment in the water sector are sufficient? If they are not enough, how will you compensate for the lack of funds needed to implement the so-called reform in the water sector? We are particularly interested in whether you believe that the office you are responsible for has done its job politically so that we can overcome the crisis that is currently in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. You have the answer, Mrs Avramova, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is an institution responsible for the conduct of state policy in the "Water and sewerage" sector. The amendments to the 2009 Water Act and the subsequent reform laid the foundations for implementing a systematic and consistent approach in the planning and management of the water infrastructure. In 2014, the Council of Ministers adopted a Strategy for the Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2023 and its Action Plan, prepared with the expert support of the World Bank, with which the principles of the reform in the water sector are strengthened and the sustainability of the changes is ensured. The strategy sets out the main objectives and priorities of the Water and Water Sector, as well as proposed measures to implement and finance these objectives over a period of 10 years. As a result of the changes made, the water infrastructure in the country is public property - municipal and state, divided into functional principles. Associations were established in all administrative areas as representatives of the owners of the infrastructure, and 15-year contracts for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and the provision of the water services were concluded. The contracts between the water operators and the water associations set binding investments that the water company should implement without exceeding the social tolerance of the prices of the water services. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works systematically introduces the requirements laid down in the Water Act and implements the Strategy Action Plan. The measures described in the Plan are those designed to establish a sustainable framework and are the responsibility of the MRDP. A number of regulations, guidelines and methodologies have been prepared and adopted in implementing the measures: Regulation on the regulation of water supply and sewerage services; Regulation on the quality regulation of water supply and sewerage services; Ordinance on requirements and criteria for water operators and on the qualification of their staff; Regulations on the organisation and operation of water supply and sewerage associations; Guidelines on changes in the regulations to allow the application of individual and other appropriate waste water treatment systems in Bulgaria; Guidelines on the optimisation of the costs of compliance with Directive 91/271, established by the World Bank, which are a methodology for determining the limits of agglomerations with a view to avoiding excessive costs in the construction of sewage infrastructure; Guidelines for reporting and acceptance of investments carried out by the VK operator as part of the mandatory contract with the Water and sewer association. Regional general plans for water supply and sewerage, master plans with short-term and long-term investment programmes were drawn up and adopted to plan the development of the infrastructure to comply with the European directives on water protection and on efficiency and sustainability of systems. During the current programme period under Operational Programme "Environment 2014" " 2020", the Ministry has developed regional pre-reports for 14 districts: Burgas, Sliven, Shumen, Varna, Dobrich, Silistra, Ruse, Plovdiv, Kardzhali, Yambol, Stara Zagora, Pernik, Vidin and Vratsa. They gave comprehensive and up-to-date data on the state of the network, water quality, available water resources, population and needs. Regional pre-investment studies are available for Smolyan as a pilot from the previous programming period and for Sofia Municipality. This was the definition of projects with which the water operators applied for funding under Operational Programme "Environment" at a total value of 1.8 billion. BGN, which will be implemented during the current programming period and the project for Smolyan is already in operation. The implementation of the investment will achieve compliance with the European directives in the field of drinking water and the disposal and purification of waste water in agglomerations with more than ten thousand equivalents of inhabitants. The grants provided will not be able to cover all the needs for the whole country. As you pointed out, they are within 11 billion. lv. and are to achieve compliance with the extraction, purification, drinking water quality parameters and a complete replacement of the water network to achieve system efficiency. The ministry is about to announce procedures for selection of contractors to prepare six more regional pre-investment studies in newly consolidated areas: Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Pleven, Sofia District, Targovishte and Haskovo. The investment needs defined in them will be financed over the next programming period. There is a significant water infrastructure built in the country, but it is designed for a population of nine million people and other characteristics of the industry. It's a different situation today. The population is around seven million, the consumption of water for industrial purposes has decreased, the funds needed to maintain the network, which is depreciated, are growing. Water companies operate under the conditions of declining income and rising costs. The establishment of a sustainable framework for the development of the water infrastructure and the provision of reliable services undoubtedly requires significant investment. The cost of water cannot generate significant funds, on the one hand, due to reduced consumption, but on the other, given that the increase in the prices of water services will exceed the threshold of social tolerance, it is therefore challenging to find a systematic approach to financing the water sector. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll continue in the back, Mr. Chairman. It's an extensive subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u216	I gave you a whole minute and a half more, hoping you'd be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u217	Thank you. The subject is extensive, so the colleagues have put in a question, so I didn't really have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u218	Two supplementary questions, please come in and do them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister Avramova, I will take your last words. You gave us strategies from 2013, from 2019, short-term, long-term plans. We have heard a possible analysis of the need for investment in the water sector. Madam Minister, a very vivid example of the lack of policy in the water sector and failure, on paper or only paper strategies, wishes and visions may be Pernik. Pernik is a city of water. Currently, at present, Pernik has a neighbourhood of seven thousand people, in which there has been no drinking water for five days. In Batanovtsi, a town near Pernik, for ten days there is no drinking water, part of it. Those are strategies! These are the strategies, the short-term, long-term plans for the water sector, the system approaches, the integrated management of water resources that have led us to this. The same may be coming in Pleven, in Lovech, in Shumen. Madam Minister, in the last ten years we have seen a vivid example of how strategy, performances in the water sector, as well as planning, management and management of these resources are going in the wrong direction. Madam Minister, I will return to the beginning of our question and to the question asked: what is the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to solve the problems of certain settlements suffering from a shortage of drinking water and to eradicate the prerequisites for this? That's one of our questions. Once again, we are focusing on Pernik and the example of how these water resources are not well managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u220	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mrs. Avramova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u221	Dear Mr. Bonev, I completely disagree that everything is on paper because the actions on this strategy are a fact and I will list some of them. It is not on paper that 14 water companies, which will be beneficiaries of the current programming period, already have contracts and that the water infrastructure will be invested BGN 1.8 billion. For information only: in the previous programming period In the last ten years it has been working and in the previous programming period it has been working. For example, I can point to a company I've been watching for years because I'm from Vratsa. In the water supply, Vratsa, when performing the water cycle there is a 50% reduction in water quantity and now instead of 20%, there are 10. It is not on paper at all and it is not at all something that is not implemented in practice, on the contrary, as a responsible ministry for the water infrastructure, it is done what needs to be done as planned. The water companies in the territories are consolidated. There are water companies that have applied will also start implementing measures of 1.8 billion. lv. At the same time, the limited resource ministry also finances smaller sites from the water infrastructure where necessary, with what is laid down in the budget framework of the Ministry being 73 million. lv. I cannot say that investment in the water infrastructure is sufficient because it is a fact that this is not the case, but the approach and measures taken are correct. About Pernik. I did get some information this morning. There has been no water for five days, which is a very disturbing moment. I have requested complete information about the measures that have been taken and what needs to be done. My information is that until now the neighborhood has been powered by a pumping plant at the drinking water treatment plant with a pump of 100 liters per second. At the flow rate, which is limited to 350 litres per second, the water supply company estimated that 100 litres per second would create a major problem for the whole of Pernik, which is why a new binding of the square was made. The Church of Kladnitsa. At the moment, the teams are on the route to determine why there is no water to the neighborhood after the binding is done. That's very disturbing, and I'm sorry I didn't have it as information earlier. Right now, the teams are in the field so they can flush down the block. I will ask you, since you are also following the situation in Pernik, if you have indications of any other problems, to submit them in due course. The water operator is the one who has to take measures, but as a minister I want to be informed of what is being done and when the water will be flushed. The commitment of the water supply is today to flush the water to the square. Church. The more worrying thing is that the flow of water has decreased and I'm worried about the flow in the last two days and the flow of 350 liters per second. I hope in the coming days and the weather forecast is for warming the weather, to increase the flow to Studena Dam, but at the moment it is worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u222	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Mr. Ermenkov, you have two minutes to express your attitude kilometers of response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u223	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! From the answer we have heard from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, we understand that everything is done, but there is no water. That's how it happened. Everything that needs to be done is done, but there is no water. Madam Minister, I know that with so many competences that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has, the Minister cannot be competent in all matters and most of the answers must have been prepared for you by the administration, which most likely sought justification for the things that were supposed to be done, and they are not done. As an example: the relationship with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which has sought information about the deficiencies and activities of the water operators, and the answer was that this was not the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and was not taken into account in this matter; or, for example, that the Commission sent you its opinion under Ordinance No 4 of 14 September 2004, as last amended from 3 September 2019, on the terms and conditions for the accession of consumers and on the use of water sewerage systems, which is issued by you, by the way, and where you are concerned, that no order of control of its implementation is envisaged. In fact, there is no response to this opinion, the regulation has come out without the MRDPB complying with the Commission's opinion on energy and water regulation. There is no way, when there is no control, to expect that the activities will be carried out, that they will be quality implemented and that everything will go well. That's one of the things that didn't happen. Secondly, I do not know what is the attitude of the Ministry towards the problems in Lovech and Pleven in the long-term guaranteeing for example the construction of a new dam. There, too, we do not know what is being done and perhaps we should have heard this in your response. The questions are too much and too extensive and there is no way within a single question to implement their answers, and in order for you to be able to really prepare yourselves on the issues, and not on what is done, because there are no results of what is done and are extremely limited, we are currently making a request for debate on these issues in the hopes of hearing the other parliamentary groups on this issue, because the water has no colour, no party affiliation, everyone needs it, and we are all using it. That is why we want the questions to be resolved in the interests of the whole society. Thank you. [[Passing to the President a letter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. In relation to this question: By letter No 954-00-93 of 6 December 2019, submitted today at 13.02 pm, a request was received for debate on the question No 954-05-51 of 20 September 2019 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Tasko Ermenkov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in infrastructure in the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and financial instruments provided for this. The proposal for a debate and the draft decision are signed by 60 Members of the National Assembly. 105, para 1. More than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly shall make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. This is also the end of Mrs Avramova's participation in parliamentary control. Thank you. We continue with the questions to Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. The first question is from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva about the territorial unit.. Haskovo, of the state enterprise "Management and management of dams." Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, out of a total of 6852 dams on the territory of our country, the most are those in Haskovo 2307, and over 100 of them are for repair. The distribution of state units in the general government "Stopping the dams" is an average of 11 people in the eight units in the territory of Haskovo. The appointed officers of the territorial unit. "Haskovo" are extremely insufficient to carry out quality checks and surveying of water facilities. I'm not gonna dwell on what it leads to if there aren't enough people to investigate these water facilities. Over the years, we all know how many human tragedies have followed from this. You state in your written reply on the subject that according to the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out technical and safe operation of dams and facilities to them that a hydro specialist cannot be responsible for more than 70 dams. Given that in the territory of Haskovo District the dams are the most, it is necessary to assess and analyse the states designated for the territorial distribution of Haskovo according to the Ordinance. By the end of the year, there will be a restructuring of administrative units to the respective government. Also, their remuneration is extremely low and does not correspond with the information provided by you in this same written answer for an average salary. In this regard, it is also our question with my colleague Nikola Dinkov to you: what measures will be taken by your entrusted office in order to ensure fair distribution and payment of employees in the territorial unit of Haskovo to the management and management of dams?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u226	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, dear Mr. Dinkov, first of all, thank you for the question. I assure you that we are very much aware that the most dams are located in Haskovo District, at least of those that will be provided by the municipalities, I will finally conclude. The Law for amendment and supplement of the Water Act has formed a state enterprise management and management of the dams. If you'll allow me, I'll call it the State Enterprise from now on. With the status of the State Enterprise within the meaning of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law and with the subject of activity Complex management of the dams is public and private state property. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 62 of 29 March 2019 the Rules on the structure and operation of the State-owned enterprise "Management and management of the dams" have been adopted, according to which the Governing Council approves structural and staff numbers, as well as the rules for determining the amount of salary of employees in the enterprise. The company has its headquarters in Sofia and eight territorial units in the country are included: Blagoevgrad, Vratsa, Haskovo, Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv, Yambol and Veliko Tarnovo, with a total number of 131 people. Regarding the territorial unit of Haskovo, applications for transfer from municipalities to the state dams in the district are 1668 "as you mentioned correctly." By December 5th of this year, there are still no transfer of dams, as you know that about two months ago, thanks to you, the Members of the National Assembly, we amended the Law so that we could ease the procedure. These procedures are in place right now. Currently, the established number of staff in the territorial unit of the enterprise is 11 people. I note that there are still no transferred dams. This is extremely important! Eleven people like this amount will be reduced depending on the accepted dams by the establishment for the area. The salaries of the employees of the enterprise Territorial Division are as follows: average salary of the engineering staff, who will carry out checks and survey of the water facilities.; the average salary of those employed in the territorial unit will be BGN 1460. What I want to point out and pay attention to is the municipality with the most dams. Let's, when they're actually transferred, because paying a salary right now, given that there's nothing to control, is a little nonsense. I assure you that when they are transferred depending on the number of dams we pay attention seriously that there are most dams here, we will redirect additional numbers, and we will provide, if necessary, additional remuneration, but nevertheless, the biggest problem at the moment is the provision of hydroengineers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Karanikolov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Dinkov. I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate you on today's holiday. I couldn't do it before.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u229	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, from what is envisaged as units to the Haskovo unit it has not become clear.. You said that you have problems with the appointment of hydroengineers... how many people have been appointed at the time. We are worried about the work of this territorial unit in relation to the fact that you know that floods have occurred in many places in Bulgaria from the dams. In Haskovo region there was a great tragedy in the Harmanli municipality. There's a lot of dams. There's no telling what the weather will be like from now on. The activity hasn't started yet. Yes, there are many municipal dams, which, according to the adopted Ordinance, have not been transferred, but there are many state dams as well. In addition, employees who are with the Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, who are also involved in the monitoring of dams, employees who are there are very few. We are concerned by what is in the area, asking this question: how is the enterprise currently proceeding and how will it proceed in the future to cover all these facilities and to predict the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I apologize to everyone who celebrates, including professional holidays! It is the easiest way to hire 11 people, but they must be specialists -- a little bit to separate the state enterprise from the State Agency. The state agency will continue with the structures it has and thanks to the state budget that you voted on, there is also an increase in salary there. I believe that with regard to control, we have no claims. Let's see the number of dams that will actually be submitted. There is a management body that will analyze all of this and, I'm sure, there will be more staff in Haskovo region. Again, the problem is not with appointments, but in providing those specialists who are hydroengineers. Unfortunately, hydroengineers are increasingly difficult to find in Bulgaria, but we are still looking for, we are ready to divide the control from the State Agency, which will continue. The normal base at the moment, as you have pointed out, a hydroengineer must be responsible for 70 dams. I believe that depending on the complexity, because you understand that there are large dams with large volumes, there are just water mirrors that can also endanger the settlement accordingly, I assure you that there will be serious control. The management of water resources, of dams, is extremely important and the Ministry of Economy, regardless of me or the next minister, I am sure it will carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u232	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev on the transfer of free resources from Axis 1 and Axis 3 to the budget of Axis 2 of Operational Programme Here you are, Mr. Danchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few days ago, I was approached by representatives of a number of companies who submitted their projects under a procedure for improving production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" which have been evaluated but unfortunately failed to receive funding. In fact, from the information published on the website of the Operational Programme last week, it is clear that out of the total 1532 projects submitted and evaluated, funding has managed to receive only 340 of them. In other words, for nearly 80% or 1192 the number of submitted, evaluated, quality projects for investments in Bulgarian manufacturing enterprises initially envisaged the budget of the procedure was insufficient. In the meantime, we learn that the free resource within each Axis of Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" is calculated as follows: Axis 1 197 thousand. EUR 233 available free resources with estimated future savings of 3 million. 357,000. 422 EUR; Axis 2? 16 million 720 thousand. EUR 620 available free resources with estimated future savings of 3 million. 205,000. EUR 80; Axis 3 540,000. EUR 985 available free resources with estimated future savings of 2 million. 806 thousand. 745 euros. In this regard, I ask you to answer: why has the Monitoring Committee meeting of the Operational Programme, held on 19 November this year, the available Axis 2 resource has not been located immediately to approved investment projects in the reserve lists under the procedure for improving production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises? Does it also foresee when the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme will redirect currently available resources under Axis 1 and Axis 3 to Axis 2's budget and, respectively, to the most attractive for the small and medium-sized business procedure for improving production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises? Does the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme intend to use the established good practice of the last programming period for the over-negotiation of the funds under the entire Operational Programme, including taking into account what is happening in the same direction under the Operational Programme Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, thank you for the question. First to confirm the projects are good, but you know they are always in the rankings, they are not removed, it always happens that money is fixed. Accordingly, in each procedure there are adjustments, there are rejected undertakings and the accumulated funds are allocated. Now I'm going to give you the answer in particular. First of all, I would like to stress that the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness " 2014 " 2020 is the main responsibility and commitment to the maximum absorption of the funds from the Operational Programme in order to achieve expected effects as a result of the implementation of the Programme. The funds provided for in the Framework of Priority Axis 1 and 3 of the Programme are aimed at achieving the specific objectives of the relevant investment priorities related to increasing the innovation activity of the enterprises and reducing the energy intensity of the economy and increasing the share of small and medium-sized enterprises implemented measures for the efficient use of resources. On the other hand, the priority axis 2 of the Programme is focused mainly on increasing the production and export potential of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The results indicator, as well as those for the product under the three priority axes of the Operational Programme, are also different from the specifics for each of them. That makes it inappropriate and ineffective to automatically transfer funds from Priority Axis 1 and 3 to Priority Axis 2 without the necessary analytical data being available. The Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" is currently in a crucial phase of its implementation with more than 750 contracts in implementation and pending contracts under key procedures for the Programme. In this regard, the objective of the managing authority is to conduct a thorough analysis which will most fully reflect the current dynamics of the implementation of the programme at the end of the programming period. This analysis will outline the free resources under the Programme, according to the latest developments of the Operational Programme, the main alternatives to the absorption of this resource, including the need to negotiate with a certain percentage in order to achieve a maximum utilisation rate by the deadline of implementation. In this regard, I inform you that at present all circumstances relating to the results obtained from the evaluation of the project proposals under the procedure are taken into account. The possibilities for increasing the budget of the procedure have been studied and a comprehensive analysis for the implementation of the Operational Programme has been commissioned. The implementation of the measures so taken will allow funding to be provided to the maximum extent of additional project proposals included in the reserve lists and approved projects under the Programme, which I have indicated, and the proposals for this will be made available as soon as possible to the attention of the Monitoring Committee. I have my employees' assurance that this analysis that I am talking about will be ready next week and expected, as these are really good projects, again you will not be able to all see that there are more, but the funds will be proposed, it will become public and will be satisfied by the Committee, which also the authority that needs to determine it. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, I must say, Mr Minister, that I am concerned, because the Monitoring Committee, in the opinion of the people who have participated in it, of a part of them, and of other observers of the processes related to the management of operational programmes, including the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" claim that the alocation of funds, the free resources under Axis 2, which is clear, as I said, as well as the funds that have been provided for savings, are also clear, and they can, in their opinion, again say, be or could at least still be on this Monitoring Committee allocated to the means that can be used to finance those already assessed, as you have said, projects. The fact is that the dynamics in the business are extremely high and this faster approval or allocation would depend on how many of these projects will remain viable. The fact is that the delay in investment projects generates constantly missed benefits for companies, but also generally for the Bulgarian economy. And in this sense, it is really important that this alocation occurs as quickly as possible. I do not know what analysis experts and colleagues from the managing authority of the operational programme will provide, because it is clear that in order for Axis 1 and Axis 3 to Axis 2, this must definitely happen with the approval of the European Commission, respectively, action on this alocation of Axis 1 and Axis 3 to Axis 2 should already be taken. Otherwise, if they are not, this would mean an even greater delay in financing these, I say, already approved quality projects, which are investments in Bulgarian production and create not only from added growth in our economy, but also new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! True, the values are clear, but the transfer from Axis 1 and Axis 3 should be done with analysis, because you yourself realize that both Axis 1 and Axis 3 also have candidates with approved projects waiting for this funding to implement... And I assure you that this will happen, let us still praise the business in Bulgaria because thanks to both the programs and how they develop, Bulgaria has managed to improve its place of digitalization of the economy by 11 positions for this year alone, i.e. besides the absorption of funds here this year, we can also talk about an effect. I assure you that it will happen very quickly, as I have told you, the values are ready, but the transfer from Axis 1 and Axis 3 to Axis 2 must be done with analysis so that we can support the opinion before the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u240	Thank you, dear Mr Karanikolov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. And we are moving on to the last two questions for today, which are to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. The first one is from the MP Elena Pesheva on the termination of the procedure for the renewal of a concession contract on the territory of the village of Belashtitsa of an investor - Holsim Career materials Plovdiv. Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! As MP from the 16th Mir city of Plovdiv, I express my concern for the residents of the localities in the village of Belashtitsa. Mass protests against pollution due to the extraction of natural resources near the village of Belashtitsa continue and no measures have been taken, and even on the contrary, the concession contract of the investor will be renewed. The content of the letter received in the town hall of the village of Belashtitsa by No E0800-270 of 28 September 2019 from the Minister of Energy concerning the investment proposal is extremely disturbing for me and for the residents of the area. It clearly states that due to the existence of geological reserves in the field and indicated by the investor an average annual yield even after this possible renewed contract of 15 years, a quantity that could be the subject of a subsequent contract in the section of the "Northern. It seems that it is a formal procedure concerning long-term periods of extraction activity, which does not take into account the changes and damage to the landscape, the infrastructure development of the settlements, the impact of long-term breakthrough-explosion activities in the years on groundwater and the danger of landslides in the region, and the fact that in recent years the residential territory of our settlements has expanded progressively in close proximity to the existing locality, which has a direct impact on the health and quality of life of the adjacent population. In addition, on page 5th of the letter of the Minister of Energy it is stated: when assessing the legality of the adoption of the proposal, it is established that the legal requirements and clauses of the concession contract are met. At the same time, it is explained on page 6 that an extraordinary on-the-spot check was carried out in 2018 by experts in the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this regard, administrative criminal proceedings have been initiated under the Law on Underground Treasures. For me, this is clearly a contradiction in the motivation for continuing the concession contract, as well as another fact in support of the public interest to prevent the renewal of the concessionaire's contract. By Decision No 286, adopted by Protocol No 18 of 29 November 2018, the Municipal Council of Rhodopes, Plovdiv District, also expressed its strong disagreement and objections to the extraction of underground riches in the land of the village of Belashtitsa. In this regard, my question to you is: will the activities of "Holsim Career Materials Plovdiv" in the region be terminated in the future, given the worrying facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u243	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Pesheva! On this topic, related to the concession of "Holsim" in Belashtitsa, we have had another opportunity with you, and with the Initiative Committee of Belashtitsa, to comment. This is undoubtedly an issue that is very enhanced to the attention of the public living in this area. We, of course, take into account all these facts, all these circumstances, make an assessment according to what the law on underground wealth and all other relevant regulations provides, and, as I have also had the opportunity to state in discussions with you and with the community, what depends on the Ministry of Energy, will be done and it is done, and proof of that is those facts which you have cited as being mentioned in my letter to the initiative committee by the public in Belashtitsa. And there it becomes clear that the Ministry of Energy is fulfilling its obligations by law and when there are violations of the relevant provisions governing the Law on Underground Treasures and Contracts, then the Ministry has fulfilled its commitments and has drawn up an act establishing an administrative infringement, issued a criminal decree. This decree has not yet entered into force since, as the Law on Administrative Offensives and Punishments provides, this decree is subject to appeal. So we are currently in a judicial phase with the concessionaire on this subject. So there is nothing unusual about this and there is no contradiction as you believe there is. We're just doing our job. When there are violations, we have to sanction them. Now specifically to the question that you have asked. As is known, the Decision of December 2000 of the Council of Ministers decided to grant a concession for the Belasitsa locality for a period of 20 years and the concession contract was concluded in 2001 and therefore expired in 2021. By application of March 2019, the commercial company "St. Holsim Career Materials Plovdiv" has submitted to the Ministry of Energy a reasoned application for the extension of the concession period for the extraction of underground riches from the locality of Belashtitsa for a period of 15 years from 1 February 2021. According to the provision of art. 36, para. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the period for granting a concession for extraction can be extended for up to 15 years under the terms of the concession contract concluded. At the date of submission of the application, the period of the concession granted for extraction has not been extended and the concession holder has therefore not exercised its statutory right under the Underground Treasures Act. According to the provisions of the Law on Underground Treasures, there is no legal basis for the request for the extension of the concession period not to be examined, this is very important since the Ministry does not have such a function and such a legal possibility does not consider any application submitted where it is in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Law. The arguments put forward in the opposition of the local public against the continuation of the concession period concern environmental problems. At present, this investment proposal has been published a notification under the order of Chapter 6 of the Law on Environmental Protection and Art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. The concessionaire may implement its investment proposal for extraction from the field only after an EIA decision has entered into force which approves the implementation of the investment proposal or a decision which is assessed not to carry out an EIA established under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act and Article 6. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. At present, the concessionaire has initiated this procedure with the competent environmental authority and in the performance of art. 4, para. 2 of para. 2 of the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental impact assessment "Holsim Career Materials'. He published on his website the investment proposal for the extension of the period of granting and the concession of the locality of Belashtitsa for 15 years. In this regard, interested parties and all interested citizens, who have an interest in this extremely important issue, may express their position, make their views known right now, in this environmental impact assessment procedure, as this contract can only be extended in the case of a positive EIA decision. So now is the time for citizens to state their position in the course of this procedure. With regard to what you mentioned as a contradiction in your view, I would just like to add that such a contradiction between the act establishing an administrative infringement and the reasons for the contract is not available. As far as the letter I sent to the Initiative Committee containing information on stocks is concerned, I would just like to open a clamp here and say.. Since the letter from the Initiative Committee covers all the issues related to the granting of this concession, we, with the experts in the Ministry, have decided to provide the full information regarding this locality so that people can be aware of all the facts and circumstances. Once again, what depends on the Ministry of Energy is being done and our commitments are being fulfilled absolutely professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u244	Thank you, dear Minister, I did not limit you, because there is only one more question left anyway. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for your answer. As it makes clear, the Ministry of Energy is doing everything possible. Here I ask myself the following question. As you yourself said, this is not the first time we have seen each other. Is it normal for tens of thousands of citizens to drag on for more than a year and a half? Is it not a kind of abdicating the state, a transfer between the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environment and Water and ultimately the citizens to be the ones who constantly send signals, informants, the Initiative Committee, to gather lawyers, to do so in person and to make protests? That's what I'd like to ask. Is that normal? Everyone knows what the effect of these careers is? It does not only concern the village of Belashtitsa, but also the villages of Markovo, Branipole, Brestnik, Galabovo. This is over 20,000 people, not to mention that all this dust and dirt is going to the city of Plovdiv. This has been proven by the study of the Rose of Winds and we all know that the city of Plovdiv is one of the dirtiest in Europe. Consolidated opinion has released even newly elected mayors of the village of Belashtitsa, Brestnik and Markovo. As I have already mentioned, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Rodopi also categorically expresses a position that there should not be a career there. The former mayor of Plovdiv had also expressed such a position. My question is: an EIA procedure is coming up now, but it's been going on for a long time now, is it normal for people to play so much input for a year and a half, and they're on strike and at some point we're going on again: I would also like to say that there are many other acts imposed, most of which were about 2,000. lv. Is it normal for such a company, for which I will not comment on how much it earns, I will only give the last example that the penalty, due to dusting imposed by RIEW Plovdiv, in October, is 5 thousand. lv.? In fact, this is the maximum penalty provided for by the Law. So many violations, and the maximum penalty is 5,000. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey!? I believe that the state should enter its own government. If you need to gather, you and the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is clear that there should not have a career, regardless of all procedures that only drag themselves through time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u246	Thank you, dear Mrs. Pesheva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u247	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Pesheva, of course, people's lives and health are always above everything. There are no economic interests that are more important than people's lives and health. We have proved this by our work over the years with our colleagues from the Ministry, by what we do as control, by what we carry out as ongoing control during the operation of the respective concession. The act of administrative infringement and the criminal decree issued under the Law on Underground Treasures as the amount of the penalty is much greater than what you mentioned as a sanction under environmental legislation. However, these are, of course, subjects whose decision relates to the legislator and to his will, as the relevant law also regulates the amount of the sanction which is intended to violate the provisions of that law. So it's all in your hands, so to speak. What the law and what it says, we impose as a sanction. There is no way that the amount of the sanction can be changed by the relevant minister. With regard to whether the State has not abdicated, we can clearly say that the State has not abdicated. You can see that in practice the entire environmental impact assessment procedure is being followed. There are deadlines and now is the time for citizens to make their arguments and their motives so that they can be taken into account and assessed, so to speak, during the EIA. So I really appeal now for people to say their arguments and indeed, within this procedure to be able to take their opinions into account. Again, people's lives and health are above all else. So there is no state institution that would not comply with such arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u248	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. We are now moving on to the last question for today from the parliamentary control of the National Representative Stanislav Stoyanov on the implementation of the schedule for extending the resources for operation of the 5th and 6th block of the NPP. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I ask my question, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the unanimous ratification today of the gas interconnection guarantee agreement between Bulgaria and Greece and further for the prospects for the construction of the Gas Hub. That's good news for the gas sector. I guess there is also good news about Bulgaria's nuclear energy and my questions are related precisely to it with the life span of the 5th and 6th block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and their re-licensing. My question is: Is the implementation of the Programme for continuing operation of the 5th and 6th block of the nuclear power plant completed and what measures are the implementation? How is the implementation of the 5th and 6th nuclear power increase project going? And another question that arose later in a conversation with colleagues: does the Ministry of Energy follow a case with a complaint lodged by a Romanian NGO to the Committee on the Implementation of the Espoo Convention against extending the resources of the two locs because of the lack of EIA? What are the measures taken? Is that information correct? Has a risk assessment been carried out in the event of a possible case in which there is a decision in favour of the complaint? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u251	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, the question you are asking is undoubtedly extremely important for the country's electricity security, respectively, for our national security, as our nuclear power plant occupies an extremely important strategic place in the country's energy system. What I can say to begin with is that, in fact, the extension of the life of the 5th and 6th block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" is one of the main priorities of our government in the sector................................................................................... I am happy to say today that this priority has been implemented and implemented, as a series of measures have been taken relating to the extension of the life of the 5th and 6th block of the NPP. All these measures are implemented and they are implemented within the time limit. This made it possible to extend the useful life of the two units of the nuclear power plant. Accordingly, their useful life is extended by another 30 years. As the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy provides, the licence can be renewed by 10 years respectively. A licence was issued in November 2017 extending the life of the 5th block of the NPP to 2027 and this year extended the licence for the 6th block to 2029. From now on there are two options for extending the useful life of the two units by two more times 20 years. All this has become possible because our plant is being exploited extremely well. There are extremely good professionals working there. Our headquarters has endured the highest safety stress tests, so it is indeed a very serious success that we have been able to achieve within this management mandate. Now a slightly greater detail regarding the complaint that you mentioned to the Committee on the Implementation of the Espoo Convention against the extension of the resources of the two units for lack of EIA, I can give the following information. The Ministry of Energy, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Water, are monitoring the development of this issue before the Committee on Implementation of the Convention. Bulgaria's view is that the complaint is unfounded because, in the framework of the extension procedure of the nuclear units of the nuclear power plant, it was carried out in strict compliance with all national and European rules and legislation, as well as relevant international acts, including the EIA Convention in a cross-border context. We have detailed information on our part of the Committee, our arguments are set out, all evidence is presented. In this regard, bear in mind that there are no violations in this context and we expect the Committee not to form the so-called case for a possible infringement. So we're following this process, it's extremely important. Thank you for bringing this up, as it is indeed very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-06.u252	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Would you like a line, Mr. Stoyanov? No. Mrs. Petkova, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, as well as you, honourable Members! The next regular meeting will be on Wednesday 11 December 2019 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
