ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, our dear friend and colleague, the great actor and man Stefan Danailov left us. We'll remember it with his charm, talent and artistry. He built compelling images both on stage and in a sign of our film history screenwork for which he received the warm recognition and affection of the entire people. Communicating with his talent was a real holiday. Stefan Danailov put energy and dedication into his work as MP in six parliaments and as Minister of Culture in the mandate of the Fortyth National Assembly. Bow to his memory! Colleagues, I ask with one minute's silence that we pay our respects to the great Stefan Danailov. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for November 27, 2019: "1." First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Trademarks and Geographical Statements. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. Adopted at first vote on 27 June 2019. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2019 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 28 November 2019. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Review of the Investment Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 12 November 2019 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 29 November 2019. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction. Importers "Milen Mihov, Iskren Veselinov, Valeri Simeonov, Valentin Radev, Konstantin Popov and Christian Mitev on 12 November 2019. Point 2 for Friday, 29 November 2019. 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the agenda. They voted 188 MPs: 149, against 2, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 November 2019 to 26 November 2019: Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Importers - Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs. A bill to counter corruption among those holding senior public positions. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importer "Angel Isaev." The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, such as Garant, and the European Investment Bank, as beneficiary, in connection with the Financing Treaty of 10 October 2019 between the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to supplement the Public Enterprises Act. Importers ssssssssssssss Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Bill for ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-B-UCA "Licenses and technical support of the JCATS (Jont Conflict & Tactical Simulation) system including operating system licenses.Linux, version Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and training for the acquisition of the new equipment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill for ratification of a Purchase and Delivery Contract between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the State of the Netherlands for the purchase of a mine hunter Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Message: On 19 November 2019 the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 8 of 15 November 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 4 of 2019 and a particular opinion thereto. By its decision, the Constitutional Court declared the provision of Article unconstitutional. 25z, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Dear colleagues, we are going to point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. With the Report of the Committee on Education and Science, Mrs. Damyanova will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I present to you ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. At its extraordinary meeting on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Education and Science discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister, Professor Lyuben Totev, Chairman of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in Bulgaria, Professor Petya Kabakchieva, Chairman of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, Mrs. Yana Vangelova, Chairman of the National Representation of Student Councils, Rectors of Higher Schools, representatives of trade unions, employers' and civil organizations. The bill was presented by Krasimir Valchev. He pointed out that it ensures compliance with the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly for the period 2014 - 2020 objectives and measures that provide for optimization of the institutional network for higher education and improvement of the system for management of higher schools by introducing a management model based on transparency, accountability and clear responsibilities. It is proposed that the Board of Governors of the State Higher Schools should include a representative of the municipality where the higher school is located. The board of trustees will also participate in the academic councils with an advisory vote. It is also proposed that the Minister, as a body for the implementation of state policy in higher education, should establish a policy for the development of each state university with strategic objectives and tasks, target values and indicators for their implementation. On the basis of this established policy, the Minister of Education and Science will conclude a management contract with the elected by the general assembly of the state university Rector. It is envisaged to draw up a National Map of Higher Education to be adopted by an act of the National Assembly. It defines the territorial and profile structure of the institutional network for higher education. The establishment of a moratorium on the opening and transformation of universities, the opening and transformation of major units and subsidiaries in state universities, with the exception of their transformation for consolidation and optimization purposes, is envisaged. A number of measures are proposed to optimize activities and deadlines for accreditation of higher schools and their professional directions. It is intended that the institutional accreditation is an initial one for a newly opened or converted higher school, and that it will be followed by an accreditation already obtained. Programme accreditation for a given professional direction will be carried out simultaneously for all higher education schools in the field. In assessing compliance with the requirements for an academic composition of a basic contract, a member of the academic staff will be able to participate in the accreditation of only one university. In order to stimulate higher schools to offer and candidate students to seek training in professional fields and specialties leading to the acquisition of a qualification that meets the current requirements and the demand for the real economy, the exemption from fees in state universities of students preparing in professional fields and protected specialties with the highest expected shortage of the labour market on a list established by the Council of Ministers is regulated. The Law allows employers to enter into a contract with students for internship during the training and in the workplace after its successful completion. In order to improve the relationship between higher and secondary education institutions and improve the quality of the profiled, professional and specialised training, it is possible to conclude up to two agreements between state university and state or municipal schools from the pre-school and school education system. 30 opinions from higher education, from the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, from the Rectors Council, from trade union organizations in the field of higher education and science, from employers' and from civil associations have been received by the Commission. Their representatives attended the meeting and took part in the subsequent discussion. National representative organizations of employers in the Republic of Bulgaria supported the Draft and especially the introduction of the National Map of Higher Education, the financial measures for detention of students in Bulgaria, the moratorium on the opening of new universities, the granting of greater powers to the Minister of Education and Science, as well as the measures for deepening the relations between higher education and business. It was noted that the National Card would be more effective if it was coordinated with employers. Syndical organizations in the field of higher education and science also supported the Bill, stressing the importance of the proposed National map of higher education, but suggested that it be adopted by the Council of Ministers. There was also the increase in the powers of the Minister of Education and Science, the strengthening of the role of the Board of Governors, the requirement that a member of the academic staff be able to participate in the accreditation of only one university. Special support received the regulation of minimum remuneration for young teachers in higher schools. The Chairman of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency supported the proposed optimization of accreditation procedures and the clarification of certain activities and deadlines. The President of the Council of Rectors also expressed support for the proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, noting the need to refine certain texts relating to the National Map of Higher Education, the accreditation of higher schools and the agreements between state university and state or municipal schools from the system of pre-school and school education, as well as the composition of the higher-school management bodies and others. It was proposed that the assistance that the Republic of Bulgaria is obliged to grant to developing countries, under our membership in the European Union, should be aimed at financing the training in Bulgaria to students from these countries. The discussion on the Law included MPs Nikolay Tsonkov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Ivo Hristov, Stanislav Stanilov and Irena Anastasova. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) said they would refrain from voting on the bill. National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov noted that the adoption of such a bill should follow the development of a new Strategy for Higher Education development and that some proposals contradict the principle of academic autonomy. People's representative Ivo Hristov noted that the problem of accreditation is fundamental and has not been solved in this bill. National Representative Milena Damyanova noted that the system of higher education needs urgent measures to improve quality and encourage young people to stay to study in Bulgaria and take over the mission of university lecturers. People's representative Milen Mihov noted that the additions proposed in the Bill strengthen the role of the state and should be supported, but are not sufficient to control the spending of financial resources in the higher education system. National Representative Stanislav Stanilov supported the proposed proposals to promote training in the natural and mathematical specialties and called for even more serious changes in the accreditation system. The Minister of Education and Science replied to the comments made that the Bill was the result of a long discussion with the participation of the Rectors Council, trade union and employers' organizations and stressed the importance of the proposed amendments and additions in the protection of the public interest in the field of higher education. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with a result of 13 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The proposed amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act correspond to the dynamically developing social and economic relations and ensure compliance with the goals and measures adopted by the National Assembly for the period 2014 - 2020. The strategy provides for optimization of the institutional network for higher education and improvement of the system of management of higher schools by introducing a management model based on transparency, accountability and clear responsibilities. In order to stimulate higher schools to focus their efforts on preparing staff of the required quality and meeting the needs of the labour market, the bill provides for the preparation of the National map of higher education, which is adopted by an act of the National Assembly. It defines the territorial and profile structure of the institutional network for higher education. In order to limit the unjustified expansion of the higher education network, the bill provides for the regulation of the order for the opening of subsidiaries and colleges and the structure of private higher education schools, as well as a specific measure such as the establishment of a moratorium on the opening and transformation of higher education schools; the opening and transformation of major units and subsidiaries in state universities, with the exception of their transformation for consolidation and optimization. The aim of the amendments and additions proposed by the Bill is to achieve a higher education system capable of responding to the dynamics of public processes in maintaining the necessary quality of higher education, i.e. a system capable of sustainable development. The Bill encourages the development of each of the higher education institutions in cooperation and with the active support of the state. In order to achieve institutional responsibility, a link with the interests of society, transparency and public control over the activities of higher schools with the Bill, it is proposed that the Board of Governors of the State Higher Schools be included in its composition and a representative of the municipality in which the headquarters of the higher school is located. A number of issues related to the financial situation of educational institutions were raised during the discussion, the need to optimize their territorial distribution with a view to ensuring regional uniformity and others. It was noted that the inclusion of representatives of the municipality in the councils of the trustees is appropriate, but it is necessary, when discussing the Second Voting Bill, that the existing restrictions on mayors and municipal councillors should be dropped. In accordance with the principles of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, representatives of municipalities in the councils of trustees should be determined by the municipal council and not by the mayor of the municipality. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 6 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Higher Education, No 902 01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy follows. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 11 September 2019, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 902-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Galina Drenovska, Director of the Ministry of Education at the Ministry, and Plamen Slavov. Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, presented the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education. Mr. Valchev pointed out that the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education are in line with the dynamically developing social and economic relations and are ensured compliance with the goals and measures set out in the National Assembly Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020. The strategy provides for optimization of the institutional network for higher education and improvement of the system of management of higher schools by introducing a management model based on transparency, accountability and clear responsibilities. In order to achieve institutional responsibility, a link with the interests of society, transparency and public control over the activities of higher schools with the Bill, it is proposed that the Board of Governors of the State Higher Schools be included in its composition and a representative of the municipality in which the headquarters of the higher school is located. The board of trustees will also participate in the academic councils with an advisory vote. It is also proposed that the Minister, as a body for the implementation of state policy in higher education, should establish a policy for the development of each state university with strategic objectives and tasks, target values and indicators for their implementation. In the context of academic autonomy, this policy for the development of the higher school will be drawn up in interaction between stakeholders and will express the overall vision of the institution concerned and the state for its development and, hence, for the development of the overall system of higher education. On the basis of this established policy, the Minister of Education and Science will conclude a management contract with the elected by the general assembly of the state university Rector. In order to stimulate higher schools to focus their efforts on preparing staff of the required quality and meeting the needs of the labour market, the bill provides for the preparation of the National map of higher education, which is adopted by an act of the National Assembly. It defines the territorial and profile structure of the institutional network for higher education. The Law allows employers to enter into a contract with students for internship during the training and in the workplace after its successful completion. The contract shall determine the forms, place and duration of the service, remuneration and the manner in which it is determined and the minimum period during which the finaliter is to work with the employer. The costs of preparing these students will be provided in full or in part by the state budget and will also be provided for their recovery in the event of failure to comply with the contract. A two-month period for the recognition of their diplomas for higher education acquired abroad, including diplomas for the acquired degree corresponding to the educational and scientific degree, is introduced to facilitate the realization in Bulgaria of the young people who received their education in foreign higher schools. The Law aims to improve the link between higher education and the needs of the real economy through the tax exemption in state universities to students preparing in professional fields and protected specialties with the highest expected shortage in the labour market on a list established by the Council of Ministers. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hasan Ademov, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Errol Mehmed. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Offers the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, No 902 01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Does the importer wish to present the Bill? No, not yet. We're going to discuss the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The development of higher education and higher education in the country in recent years has undergone a serious transformation. We saw both the rise and the declines in the implementation of educational policy in Bulgaria and at the same time the explosive development of the different forms of training, many new specialties, which were dictated by the major social and economic changes, and last but not least, Bulgaria's membership in the European Union. For this reason, Bulgarian higher education institutions faced serious competition with universities from the countries of Western Europe. These major changes gradually brought forward the need to change the current Law on Higher Education imposed by the new economic realities that our country must comply with anyway. The massisation of higher education, on the one hand, has enabled many young people to look for new opportunities and new fields of knowledge, but at the same time has led to imbalances in the individual specialities dictated by the conjuncture of the historical moment in the development of our holding. Education is a national priority of the government and our country. It is therefore important for the state to defend specialties in which the interest of Bulgarian youth is not clearly stated. We are obliged to monitor the preservation of the burden of science, which in the future will also prove important for the development of our economy and our nation as a whole, although they are currently on the tail of the public interest of the young generation. The current changes to the Law on Higher Education are by no means dictated by work per piece. Your attention is offered a large package of legal, administrative and financial measures that will create a conceptual model for academic training, in line with the most modern European requirements. At the same time, we are rather looking for synchronization with changes in social and social conditions, with the current and future policy of the Bulgarian governments in this direction. This concerns the long-term provision of funding for the educational process in academic institutions; the protection of specialties that the labour market has or will need in the future; the stimulation of future students to engage in the study of sciences that we consider important for our existence as an active and competitive participant in the European market. The amendments do not affect the current transfers of public funds to higher schools in Bulgaria, i.e. the financial framework for the functioning of education does not change and this is normal in view of the visible national policy in recent years, related to the gradual separation of increasing funding for education. Current amendments to the Law on Higher Education must regulate the possibility of easier recognition of the diplomas of Bulgarians who have acquired their education at universities abroad. This applies especially to doctoral degrees. It is these young people who are building the future scientific infrastructure that our country and our economy so badly need. I would like to express my firm belief that the current amendments to legislation in this direction are good and are in full sync with the European Union's current law. I personally support the proposed amendments and call on all my fellow Members to make a contribution to this national cause, namely to the better functioning of our education system in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Stanilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I've told you before from this tribune that even the best law, if it falls into the wrong hands, could be ruined. In this sense, I would like to say a few problems, the solutions of which, through this law that we will adopt, must at all costs be pushed into life. The first is that we are madly behind the world's trainings in mathematics, physics and chemistry for this reason are all governments since the change so far, because programmes have been cut in secondary and higher education, and we found where we were more than 50 years ago. In the 1950s and 1960s the Bulgarian students were least prepared by all students in the socialist countries in these disciplines: mathematics and related physics, chemistry, biology and so on, i.e. natural fundamental sciences. Now the task is to take extraordinary measures with the instruments of the Law and with all other possible means for about ten years this thing must be liquidated. There's experience in this because in the late '70s and early '80s, we had caught up with the world. These students of ours who are now walking and winning awards are the remnants of that education, because in the new education it is not. This must be achieved. The second main weakness is the breaking of ties between fundamental science and teaching. If you are not a good researcher of fundamental and applied disciplines, you cannot be a good lecturer. Now most of the universities are turned into one of these mechanisms, they go, they read lectures, they go home, they read lectures again, and no one does research. That's why I can give endless reasons the Minister knows, the Ministry has such data. That has to change, too. Basically, and one of the main instruments is the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency (NAAA), which is just stuck in the same place - I have said this to the chairman of the NAOA. I even said they broke the law, she said to sue them. That's bullshit, guys, I'm not suing, and that's not decided by the court. This is decided through consciousness! There is a professional high school that is connected and works under the auspices of the Technical University. There 90% of students go to the Technical University. Of these 90% remain to work in Bulgaria. The mechanism can also be multiplied for other higher education institutions. All over the world, the big VUMs have such secondary schools, where the best are selected. Therefore, the third point is that we have put our children's elite education under wraps and therefore there is no way to improve the results of our higher education. At any cost, there must be some discipline, at all costs the Rectors and the lecturers must be responsible for this. This has to be connected even with the pay. In the Law you will see that there are also measures, there is a special status for this payment how to improve it. At second reading there will probably be supplements.. even think that special Master's training should be changed and in some sense there should appear some competition because from these Master's then withdraw the best for PhD students and so on. This is already a matter of discussion at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any requests for speeches? Anyone? Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Over the past 20 years, the socio-economic conditions in Bulgaria have changed significantly. A gradual and deep reform of the education system began in preschool, school, including higher education. These requirements, which were imposed by the new conditions, put to higher education issues that obviously needed a complex solution. In this sense, it is necessary to talk, to discuss the problems of higher education and together all stakeholders, including the National Assembly, to find the most adequate, most correct approach to solving emerging problems. We are living in a new industrial revolution, a new technological revolution, in these conditions of a digital economy, we need to adapt, redeploy the system of higher education. I cannot miss Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, because the very fact that we are part of a larger space................................... and political, economic, imposes another type of conditions of higher education, at least mentioning the Bologna process and the work to create a European research area and European area of higher education. In this context, obviously, we need to strengthen the relations of higher schools in Bulgaria with their colleagues, scientists and lecturers, as well as at institutional level with higher schools in other European countries. Here I would like to draw attention to a problem that has been created artificially over the past two years...the problem of reputation, the authority of Bulgarian higher education. I focus on this problem because it was largely created by us on the one hand, engaged in the system of higher education, on the other hand, external institutions, which obviously did not make any effort to propose the right solutions for reform of higher education. On the contrary, these problems were intriguing. In this sense, we have a few more problems that arise and which we obviously had to start solving. First of all, naturally related to the reputation of higher schools in Bulgaria are the quality of education; the quality of research; the way in which the educational system and its quality are assessed through the accreditation tool; the mechanism for financing of higher schools. In this sense, one of the objectives of the Strategy, which has been developed, was an effective mechanism for managing and financing higher education in order, naturally, to improve the quality of the education service. Higher schools, universities have always played a very important role both in building the state and in developing the economy, including at regional level for the maintenance and development of regional communities. That is, in modern conditions, universities, higher schools have an increasingly strengthened role in social, economic terms, they have a leadership function, if you will, in the relevant regional communities and at national level. In the centre of universities, of education, of the higher education system are students and open education in the context of the new Lifelong Learning Strategy. Naturally, universities, higher schools have remained as such, adapted to the new conditions and managed to preserve themselves on the basis of a very important principle, such as academic autonomy, academic self-government and academic freedoms. I would like to say a few words in this direction because I see some risks and problems that could potentially occur with the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act. In this sense, I would remind you that on 25 May 2018 there is a meeting of the ministers of education and science in European countries, which adopts a specific declaration saying that academic freedom, integrity, institutional autonomy, participation of students and employees in higher education management, as well as public responsibility form the backbone of the European area of higher education. These are fundamental values that should be encouraged and stimulated. I'll remind you of something else. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 4 of the Constitution is written that higher schools enjoy academic autonomy. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 of the Law on Higher Education is said to create conditions for free development of higher education and in art. 19 of the same law says that high schools enjoy academic autonomy. In this sense, honourable Members, Mr Minister, we see a problem relating to limiting precisely this academic autonomy of higher schools with certain specific proposals being made to amend the Law. We would like to draw attention to the fact that a long time ago there is a discussion on how to improve the quality of education in higher schools. This, of course, goes with a discussion on how society can control the funds given to higher schools. We agree that we must have an effective control mechanism. The proposed tools for controlling the management of higher schools are not convinced that they are the best at the moment. We would like to discuss once again the tools on which to control spending funds. I am focusing in this direction on the financial management of higher schools, and from there we are already looking for ways to increase the education service, the quality of education in higher schools. You know that the principal authorities in higher schools are the Rector, the General Assembly and the Academic Council. With the proposed changes, we are at odds with the Law on Higher Education, with the Constitution, as the basic law of the state, including the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber. Another thing I would like to say in terms of regulation by the state, the system of higher education. Let me remind you that in the Constitution, the forms of ownership are equal and private and are guaranteed by the state under the same conditions. In this sense, we agree that the state must intervene and have regulation in terms of priority directions, how to focus funding towards higher schools in view of their profiling, territorial structure, direct connection with the regional and national economy, but this mechanism must be very precise. Sometimes good intentions actually turn out to be very problematic. It may be that we are creating far more serious risks for the system than the good intentions that we are reforming and improving the functioning of the higher education system. I would also like to express to you some general considerations regarding our proposed changes. First of all, the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education, adopted in 2014, expires next 2020. In this sense, was it not more reasonable, more correct and from the point of view of governance, legislative activity, first, to discuss and adopt a new strategy for the development of higher education, which, by the way, is being worked and then in accordance with this new strategy to make changes to the Higher Education Act? Next, it is worth expressing the argument that these changes that are being made in the current Law on Higher Education are quite a number and substantial as changes. In this sense, was it not more correct to propose a new Law on Higher Education? Next, there's another problem I see. From the point of view of the changes being proposed, have we correctly assessed the expected results of these changes? Because we might be looking for a positive effect, but actually deepening the existing problems. There are, among other things, many positive points in the Law, which I can not help but mention, related to accreditation, related to the way of management in higher schools that we welcome. However, the principle of academic autonomy must be fundamental and we must find the golden section between academic autonomy and academic freedoms and the state, control, regulation by the state of the higher education system, because at the moment I see another risk associated with regulating the system of higher education, mainly to state universities, and private universities, private universities, remain somehow in countries, but they are part of the system of higher education. Both types of higher education must be treated equally. With all these arguments, we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will abstain at first reading on our proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act. We have our proposals, which we will make between first and second readings, in order to eliminate inaccuracies, to specify some of the texts, however, to find this balance between quality, financing higher education and regulation by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Please come in for a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Petrova, if I could just ask my colleagues for a little more silence in this room, as it's really not being heard very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Part of the proposed decisions in the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act relating to optimization of the university network and promotion of profiled specialization are, in principle, on the agenda of a long time as possible mechanisms for limiting structural imbalance in higher education. The fact is that institutional fragmentation is very large and the ratio of the number of state universities to the population is one of the highest in the European Union. In 2018, the European Commission financed an independent expert review of the research system in Bulgaria, which resulted in a recommendation for radical reduction of this fragmentation through merger and consolidation. It is another matter that solving the problem of the gap between demand and the supply of skills in the labour market cannot be done only by administrative measures. An education planning system for medium-term and long-term forecasting of labour market demand is needed to take into account the entire complex of factors affecting this demand, including trends in economic restructuring, technological development, productivity growth, as a result of automation and optimization of processes, the emergence of new professions, and the change in the nature of existing professions. In this situation, it will be clear whether the promotion of priority directions and the protection of majors in a government-approved list actually solves potential, medium-term and long-term deficits. There is a need for a skill management mechanism to serve as a basis for planning in higher education, for targeted changes in educational programs and content, for applying new methods of teaching and innovation in the training process....................................................................................... We need a system to develop partnerships between businesses and universities, transfer knowledge, access students to new technologies and get experience in a real working environment. The same applies to the second ambitious objective of the changes to the Higher Education Act. Although they have the potential to influence to a certain extent the problems related to massisation of higher education, the management of universities' specialities and research only with the proposed measures, there is no dramatic increase in what is currently available as a quality of higher education. Its improvement is a function of many other macro- and micro-decisions, including guidance of quality management systems internal and external, from processes to results, creating flexible learning pathways, creating the skills management system mentioned above, improving academic programmes and learning content, improving the quality of teaching, building an effective ecosystem between universities and businesses. The regulation of this governance model, based on transparency and clear responsibility of the institutions, with a requirement for the purpose and reporting of performance indicators, is a good solution. The question is whether the formal framework will become a working mechanism for monitoring and evaluating efficiency and efficiency in higher education. For example, all universities in Bulgaria have formal quality management strategies, but a report by the European Commission on quality assurance systems in higher education from January this year found that these strategies exist mainly as a formality, as a document and in few Bulgarian universities are actually applied. An important change in the Law is that the scope of academic self-government is expanded by granting universities the right to conclude contracts with profiled and professional high schools and to carry out joint study activities. Under agreements, a joint study activity will be possible in educational subjects and/or modules to acquire profiled and professional training at a second high school stage of the average degree of education, as well as in study subjects to acquire specialized training in the middle degree of education. The training is intended to be based on concerted curriculums and to be carried out by persons holding academic positions in higher schools. The need for the development of such an ecosystem between universities and secondary schools has been discussed for a long time because it creates real prerequisites for the development of meaningful innovations in education, for the creation of new models of schools with the participation of universities, in the organization of the school, teaching and development of curricula, which will lead to an increase in the quality of secondary education. And this is extremely important because the quality of higher education largely depends on the quality of secondary education. There is good practice for the introduction of an academic spirit in teaching and for the acquisition of professional training at the Technological School of Electronics at the Technical University of Sofia and in the Professional High School of Computer Technology and Systems of Pravets, there are regulated and laid down basic rules, curricula, plans. These are examples of successful integration of schools with higher education institutions. I am convinced that by means of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, the higher education network will be optimized and a step will be taken towards improving the management system of higher schools in terms of transparency and accountability in interaction between academic autonomy, state and public interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Anyone who wants to make a statement? We'll take turns in groups. Here you are, Mr. Mehmed, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Colleagues, I feel a disinterest in this House, so far we are a talk for better or worse. And so it turns out that whenever it comes to education, this disinterest is very visible. Assuming education is the most important investment, that it is a national priority, that it is the most important policy, we should also be responsible enough. Today we will see amendments to the Law on Higher Education. As a matter of fact, a year ago, September 2018, we were looking at the same law with additions. I would remind you that at that time we wanted and realized the idea that business should be involved in the lives of higher education institutions. In the DPS, however, we are always looking for feedback and we will follow the impact of this realized idea. In principle, our legislation is such that it is as if we are remodeling.. We are constantly changing, constantly supplementing and thus functioning and normalization, but there are also quite a lot of misconceptions in this way. I am pleased that the amendments have been tabled by the Council of Ministers today, not by individual MPs. My fellow Members have mentioned enough important things that are laid down as proposals in this bill, but it seems that a topic has sparked a more serious discussion that was the proposal for a contract between the Minister and the Rector of the higher education institution. Of course, they mentioned as well as colleagues the fear and doubt that in this way it is reaching for the autonomy of the vouses. Colleagues, what does autonomy mean? Today I will not answer that question, I will leave it to you perhaps, but I would rather say what is not autonomy. It is not autonomy that the lack of responsibility to the state is not autonomy the lack of financial accountability, but is another state policy the existence of autonomy in the vouses? Because if we assume that this is a great responsibility, we should all implement the state policy in the field of education in the case of higher education. What's the current situation? Currently there are 33 higher education institutions in the state; 14 are private; 3 higher schools are at the Ministry of Defence and one are of the Ministry of Interior, if I am not mistaken. I am also referring to another proposal for the imposition of a moratorium. Colleagues, we all complain that our smart youngsters are leaving the country, we all complain that two million Bulgarian citizens have left Bulgaria. To some extent, we understand that our universities are in direct competition with foreign voices, and we are losing out on this job. When there are more than 50 higher education institutions for 5 million Bulgarian citizens and when there are more seats each year than graduates, should the state take the necessary measures? Yeah, it's coming. When there is a severe gap between demand and supply in the labour market, should the state intervene? Yes, and the Minister is responsible for that. Because if we want a developed society, if we want a developed economy, if we want a prosperous state, things start from education. Education is a guarantee of prosperity for both the individual and the nation as a whole. In this case, in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we support those proposals in which we see a state thought. In some of these proposals there is such a thought, and we believe that they are thought out, but that does not mean that at second reading, because I am sure that there will be additional proposals, and repairing the repair will not interfere when we see and feel that principles and philosophy are being violated. This law, if it has been changed more than 50 times and if these amendments are based on the Higher Education Strategy that ends next year, it is good to ask ourselves what we will implement in the Strategy after 2020. " Will we be up to date, will we meet European and world standards in the field of higher education, and we should not forget about the achievements in science, because we very often miss them " and from there we all have to work so that education can be regulated as it should be, so that we can feel the state support, but also the personal development of each student? With this, I will conclude with the agreement, as I understand it, after the New Year we will continue to work hard on this bill to see who the proposals will be, what exactly the additional amendments to the Law will be, we will assess whether there is a need for a whole new law and how long these patches will last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. Anyone for a line? I can't see. Mr. Hristov has the floor to speak. Here you go. Please increase the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We are looking at a bill that has long been expected by the academic community, by interested consumers in the field of higher education and in some sense by the whole society, which is related anyway to the problems of higher education. I have no illusions about the fact that a law is able to solve the serious problems of Bulgarian higher education regardless of its quality. Bulgarian higher education is in a long-standing, systemic and deepening crisis. This crisis is due both to reasons concerning its design itself, its genesis, the way it functions, and something that many people, unfortunately, both in the field of education and beyond, do not understand. There is one fundamental rule in the system theory, and it reads: The logic of the system determines the logic of the behavior of the system element rather than the opposite. What do you expect in a country that is on the periphery of Europe, in every sense of this word, and you expect its higher education, do you see it being at a decent European level? Whoever has such expectations is either a fool or a demagogue to choose one of the two. [[GERB's line.]] 30 years ago I was a student in the IV course, the first changes to the higher education system in the country started and in this respect the first steps that were taken were like panacea in two directions. First, it was believed that the so-called academic autonomy would be the panacea, which would solve all the problems of Bulgarian higher education. This autonomy was in several areas of administrative, management, educational, and 30 years of practice in its application in Bulgaria led to effects which the Ministry knows very well and encounters each day. This is, in fact, autonomy or in the form of autonomy, conceals the reluctance to be responsible for a large number of higher schools. In Bulgaria at the moment, if memory serves, there are more than 50 higher schools. The quality of education in these higher schools is such that according to international standards the first Bulgarian university, if memory serves me, is somewhere in six centimeters. In the first thousand universities in the world, we may have another one or two higher schools. In other words, we have a serious problem with the quality of higher education in the country. The second major problem that we have is the quality of binding this higher education to the needs of business. The Bulgarian society is currently expecting from the Bulgarian higher schools some high quality of the students who are coming out of there, but only yesterday, I assume that you have all followed this exciting element of our stunning life, was translated under the igoto. What do you expect to be the level of education in higher schools, given that what comes from the bottom of primary and secondary education is within primitiveism? In the first and second year at universities, most of the lecturers complain that they are actually trying to compensate for the severe deficits of competence that secondary and secondary education does not give anyway. The third major structural deficit these are, of course, attempts in the form of autonomy to hide the naked fact that two thirds of Bulgarian universities live at the expense of and thanks to the state subsidy. Here we have something originally wrong with the design of the system that I started talking about at the beginning. It is stated in the following: the funding of any system depends on the quality of its results. In the system of Bulgarian higher education is the opposite: funding is a function of the number of students entering the university. In other words, the higher school is not economically interested in the quality of what it produces at the exit, but is economically, blood-interested by the amount that enters the entrance, therefore its economic, organizational and any other status does not depend on what it produces. Show me another system in the world that has such structural deficits. On top of that, when the main, so to speak, user and funder of this system, the state, roughly speaking, asked for its credit, that is to say, what it receives against what it gives a lot of the so-called academic community stands up and says that this is a violation of academic autonomy. This bill for the first time makes a timid attempt, I have, of course, very heavy reserves, but it makes a timid attempt to put things in some order, for which reason I think it will encounter extremely cruel, deeply echelonized resistance both in the education system and outside it. Unfortunately, the thirty years of transition in Bulgaria showed that there are three systems in our society, which, beyond the specifics, were left to their free reproduction and self-government. These are: the education system; the health system; and, to one extent or another, the local self-government system; and they ended up with severe abuse of freedom. Next, we have a problem with the quality of what comes out of higher schools and the quality of the educational process inside higher schools. According to a European model, we have created an institution with which for biographical reasons I am well acquainted with. It is called the accreditation agency, which, you see, had to solve the problem of the quality of higher education. The results are crying. It is stated in the following: those who are being checked are checking those who are checking. In this sense, the left hand controls the right hand. The result is an imitation of violent activity in a factual inactivity. The accreditation agency is unable to protect the structural problem of the quality of Bulgarian higher education. Any attempts to introduce some order there lead to another production of paper volumes in the form of institutional and programme accreditation. Everyone who is familiar with the system knows very well that the vast majority of the reports of this agency and its specialized committees reproduce the paper which is submitted in the form of self-assessment reports by the higher schools themselves. Appreciated determine how they will be evaluated. Then they do each other's favors. This thing can't go on like this anymore. Attempts at the moment to unite the process of institutional and programme accreditation, of course, have their pluses, but there will also be many mines with a delay that are yet to blow up in the path of the assessment of accreditation. And there's a third thing, one last thing that's very important. The quality assessment of higher education cannot be given by any institution or system of institutions. The quality assessment of higher education shall be given by the users of that higher education. Some of the speakers before me said that Bulgarian higher education could not understand that it is already in a regional, European and global context of teaching and education services. The Bulgarian higher schools must understand that the salvation of the drowning is the problem of the drowning themselves. They need to understand that they are fighting for a market that is regional, which is continental, and global. And as strange as it may be, an example country like Cyprus has shown far greater results in higher education. Cyprus higher education institutions are far more popular in Europe and also in the world, compared with, say, I do not know what is six or seven million Bulgaria. Why? Because they're oriented towards the demands of the global environment they're in. We expect the state here to replace the lack of demand for services. If memory serves, every year the country ends between 48 and 50 thousand students. Some of them are going to study abroad and the other part is heading towards the Bulgarian higher schools. Bulgarian higher schools compete for the favor of the increasingly decreasing number of students candidates in the Bulgarian higher schools. Given that the Bulgarian university and its funding depend on the number that will enter the entrance of this university, how do you expect that there will be requirements for the quality of higher education? In conclusion, the Law, which is provided to our attention, is trying to solve severe structural problems that are not the product of the law itself, but which it further induces in the years. The severe systemic problems of the Bulgarian higher education will not be solved with this bill. I'm a skeptic that a brand-new law would solve this problem if you didn't look at the problem systematically. The system of Bulgarian higher education is closely related to the quality and character of the society in which we live. When our society collapses along the path of barbarisation and non-civilization, do not expect any great results. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Anyone who wants a line? I can't see. For a statement? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I will begin my speech by welcoming the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Science, perhaps for the first time in many years, to take some step in the direction of the efforts of the Bulgarian higher education to overcome some of the already developed systemic deficiencies that the speaker before me spoke about. There is no doubt that these legislative efforts are dictated by good intentions, but, on the other hand, in my speech, I would like to focus on the following: it seems to me that the efforts must be directed primarily, solely and exclusively, in the direction of quality. We have already talked about what environment of competition our higher education is in and that quality in our higher schools cannot be achieved by administrative, political, financial or other measures of coercion. This is the first thesis that I would like to make, and with which, eventually, I want to protect both the legislator and the Ministry, because the experience in an open educational market to introduce administrative-force measures or with all financial instruments will not result in the desired result. The question is what is the ultimate objective of legislative amendments: to save money for the state; to optimize expenditure for a student; to better plan expenditure for students in the coming years; or to improve the quality of higher education? My thesis and my understanding are that this is the last goal that I have listed to improve the quality of higher education. What should be done to achieve this goal, and what is possible, in my opinion? First of all, there are three laws that are relevant to achieving this objective. The Law of Higher Education is not only the Law of Higher Education, but these are the Law of Scientific Degrees and Awards, or roughly speaking for the academic staff, and the Law of Academic Autonomy. Here several times was mentioned the notion of academic autonomy. I wasn't under the impression that it was understood in fullness. Academic autonomy is not a question of interpretation and of what the Constitution says, but there is a Law on Academic Autonomy adopted in 1990 and with several legislative amendments was improved by 1995. There is explicitly written what the higher school does: it defines the structure, adopts its internal rules, organizes and creates the faculties and scientific directions in which it prepares students. That is to say, in this regard, I cannot find the place in § 4 of this article. 9, that:. in cooperation with the Ministry establishes a policy for the development of each state university with strategic objectives, tasks and target values. I think there is a good intention here to strengthen the interaction between the state as an executive, as an authority that has legislative powers in the management of education, on the one hand, and the higher school, on the other, but I am not sure that this point is running out or can determine the limits of this interaction. What do you mean here? What does it mean to establish a development policy? Well, politics is what the Academic Council does, deciding to open one or another faculty, to close one or another direction where there is a shortage of students, to develop its faculty, to qualify it to one degree or another. This is politics and it is recorded in the Act on Academic Autonomy. My recommendation is: in any case, this law and these legislative amendments must be moved, but let's look at the interaction between the two laws, because I think that this item. 9 will cause serious misunderstandings, on the one hand, between the academic guides of higher schools and the Ministry, on the other hand. And in order to avoid such tensions, which will inevitably arise, let us consider what this development policy is and what this development represents as strategic objectives. Take, for example, a university such as architecture, construction and urban planning, or Technical University, or Sofia University. What strategic objectives can be included in these higher schools? The definition of this state policy must have clear parameters, it must be clear which state policy is and which is the territory of academic autonomy. It seems to me that in this bill as it is currently proposed, this is not clarified and will undoubtedly cause unnecessary tensions in the implementation of the Law or in the worst case will become what my colleague Ivo Hristov said: there will be a passive resistance and none of this will be realized. The question of quality in Bulgarian universities. Any rankings are quoted, any interpretations can be heard. I would like to draw attention to a fact that we should always bear in mind that I do not believe to be a disadvantage, I think it is a positive element of the world ranking of higher schools. However, if you objectively look at this world ranking, I think that somewhere to place No 200 the universities of Anglo-Saxon countries probably occupy 80% of this ranking. We should not rule out an objective circumstance the language in which teaching is carried out in higher schools. This is an objective limitation on the development of national higher education. I can't think of how many Anglo-Saxon universities have majored in Bulgarian, Czech, Russian, German or other languages. In this respect, Bulgarian universities have taken some good steps in terms of increasing their competitiveness. Everything should not be placed under a negative sign. The massisation of higher education is a process that does not only affect Bulgaria, but affects all higher education in Europe and in the world. I think that the legislative changes proposed must be subject to the philosophy of improving quality by increasing the incentives and quality of the teaching staff, improving the material base and active participation in the international scientific exchange. These are the general directions for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Mihov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will support this bill and we believe it is extremely important because for the first time in a long time it puts an emphasis that society expects of us and which is necessary for the development of Bulgarian higher education. This emphasis, this idea is in the simple wording that the state must return to higher education. This is something that our opponents from the opposition have always insisted on, and I hope that they will accept these arguments. We believe that it is necessary, for the benefit of society, in favour of the development of higher education and improvement of its quality, that the state should return to the control and management of the Bulgarian universities. This is expressed in the Bill with several elements. The main one is the envisaged new mechanism for the appointment of the highest leaders in higher education. Next, it is also very important that the Law provides for the regulation of remuneration thresholds for lecturers in state universities to provide them with a decent remuneration, guaranteeing them tranquility and work for the development of education and science. However, I must say that we also have a different view in this direction, and we believe that between first and second reading we need to make a serious, professional debate, I look to the left, completely sincere, that our colleagues will support us expertly and professionally in this debate, in order to see the mechanisms, to formulate the legal norms that guarantee a reliable, secure state control of the functioning of our universities and beyond doubt that this will in no case be an argument of criticism that we are reaching for academic autonomy. Academic autonomy is a value, it is an achievement, it is something that needs to be validated but at the same time to be protected; to be protected from practices, from attempts to transform it and to interpret it as a sole feudal management of higher schools. Unfortunately, life in recent years has shown us that we have such examples and the interests of society, the interests of higher education, of science must guide us in this direction. It is a very important issue of financial control over the resource that society gives to state universities through the state budget. For the first time next year, the sum of this resource will exceed half a billion leva. Over 500 million will be entrusted to state universities and we are responsible to all Bulgarian taxpayers for controlling the spending of these funds. As a university professor with heartache, I have to say that we have cases, we have practices that raise doubts about abuse and misuse of significant funds from the budgets of state universities. Unfortunately, we have to acknowledge that fact. We don't have to hide, we have to look at it, and we have to look for mechanisms for a solution. I hereby conclude and appeal to all my fellow Members for a professional and responsible debate between first and second readings in the Committee on Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Any other speeches? [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor for a reply.]] The band doesn't have time, unfortunately. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There are not one and two professors in higher schools in this House, and I, colleagues, would like to ask you a question: is it convenient for us, do we feel professionally satisfied with the fact that twenty years after the beginning of the 21st century we are talking about inequalities in the system of higher education? I see associate Professor Valchev on the balcony, we are talking about incomes and quality as lack and not as a process of accumulation? Is it a good thing that Bulgarian universities are said to be printers of diplomas or that they are a place where young people simply reside while looking for work? Yes, it's true that in the last decades, the status quo seemed to be stronger, no matter who ruled. And at the moment there are also attempts to fail or in any way to hinder reform. My favorite theme and the thesis is that the educational system is conservative, and it does not tolerate sudden changes. That is true, honourable Members, only that children and young people no longer tolerate conservative development and demand action from us, and urgently so. We are still continuing, unfortunately, to pretend that accreditation rating 9.01 and 17% achievement of the education that students have received is actually something natural. Another favorite topic of mine and discussion is who is more guilty of secondary or higher education? The colleague Ivo Hristov also touched on this topic. The secondary education did not prepare the children well enough, and the tax collectors and professors instead of high science are forced to teach basic knowledge. Yeah, in a way, that's a problem, that's true! The more important question here is what universities do to attract and keep the most knowledgeable and the best young people because they choose universities abroad, do universities make enough effort in this direction? [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Until recently we justified this fact with the lack of enough conditions and environment for development in Bulgaria, we justified that families, parents prefer education abroad because this diploma gives better opportunities for development. However, the children who have already graduated abroad actually go back to Bulgaria and work here, and this is a visible and lasting trend. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, because I hear calls in this House, I do not sum up that the picture of higher education is extremely bleak. No! We all know professionals who are extremely good experts who are inspiring, people who are visionaries, leaders regardless of the position they are in. I say this because I do not like these very tones of the picture of our academic education and because I think that together we can change them and improve them; because I know that yes, the reform of education, whether it is average or higher, is happening extremely slowly, difficult because the measures are unpopular. However, we cannot continue to do exactly what we do with the justification that the measures are unpopular. In the end, I think it is shameful today to talk about inequality in the higher education system, when at the same time the world is talking about a future with new staff, with new knowledge, with a new labour market, a future that is not after decades, colleagues, a future that is in two, three, maximum up to five years. What are we going to change? I will briefly address two topics, although some of them have already been affected by colleagues. First of all, accreditation. Yes, the accreditation process is one of the most important ones to ensure the proper and proper functioning of the higher education system. The clearly formulated and well-selected functions of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency ensure precisely this objective and impartial assessment of the quality offered in higher schools, namely the reform of this agency and the evaluation and accreditation system is part of the Government's Management Programme by 2021. We have seen over the years, unfortunately, a number of discrepancies that have led to a number of distortions. I will return to the data I mentioned at the beginning, the discrepancies between the assessment of accreditation and the realization of students. We have, for example, a higher school, I won't actually mention, we all know that a lot of accreditation assessments are at the top of the scale, and I don't know if we consider that normal, but at the same time we have a higher school with an accreditation rating of 9.01 and 17% realization of students in the main professional direction. At the same high school the lecturers of a major contract of employment are 50.65%. The data are from the rating system of the higher school for 2018. According to the data of the National Statistical Institute in the academic year 2018 - 2019, lecturers at universities and specialized universities are 21 thousand, of which are 13 200 people on the main job, or 62.5% of the lecturers. In fact, these two examples show very clearly that the change that is being made with regard to the possibility of a teacher of a basic employment contract participating in the accreditation of only one university, not only is it correct, not only is it timely, but is even a little late, and I think it is high time we took this step. In no case will I say that this is the drug, this is the panacea for solving all the problems and that with this and other changes that we are making, almost tomorrow or in four or five years all higher schools will not only enter the world rating rankings, but will take some decent positions there. No! These are steps that are in the right direction and are part of the major reform that began, by the way, the last term in 2016, when we tied the funding not only to the numbers but also to the quality and to the realization of the students. The second theme on which I would like to address, or the second amendment in the Bill, is the reform in the management of state universities. There's been a lot of talk here about whether we violate academic autonomy or not. By the way, there is no Act on Academic Autonomy, honourable Members, it was repealed by the Law on Higher Education in 1995 and the texts are actually there. More than once in this tribune, I have expressed my personal opinion that the more freedom institutions have in the education system, whether we are talking about pre-school, school or higher education, the better, because these are democratic communities. On the other hand, Professor Ivo Hristov is right that freedom means responsibility and it goes with responsibility. Yes, at the beginning of the transition, higher schools were granted autonomy and freedom, for which they were not prepared, so to some extent it degenerated.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u25	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u26	It's not ridiculous! Some of your colleagues have said that, Mr. Zablyanov, that somewhere our responsibility is lost. Freedom is a good thing, but responsibility is what's missing. With these amendments, I see no violation or violation of academic autonomy. I see something quite different, and this is the opening of state universities in terms of the process of discussion, decision making, and why not in terms of spending the state subsidy. I sincerely hope that in this House, and not only will we begin here as soon as possible to have an absolutely conscious debate on changing the management model of higher schools, such as the separation of academic from financial power. Do we have the political will to have this debate? I very much hope we have one. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] In conclusion, honourable Members, I will ask each of you to consider, whether it is now, before the first vote, or between first and second readings, whatever requests have been made to really take together these measures to get out of the market of diplomas and enter the real labour market and its development in its entirety. The fact is, life won't stop with our nothingness. Young people have the extraordinary and remarkable ability to look for the best solutions for themselves. Here they are today, on the balcony and can confirm it. It's the same skill that good teachers and academic minds have. The truth is that these efforts will not lead to and do not lead, as we see at the moment, to neither quality nor speedy nor lasting change in the way of life in the country and of us as a society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Are there lines? Any other speeches? [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Personal explanation? It wasn't negative, but you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister! It was not in negative terms, but it was a mention and it was in the context of Mrs. Damyanova's speech, so there can be no personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u29	Because you're yelling at me from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u30	With regard to the thesis, which is controversial, can universities benefit from their own academic autonomy? The fact that there is a discussion about what academic autonomy is means that there is no clarity. That's the accent I put on. The question or the starting point from which...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u31	Is that a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u32	... justify the need to restrict the freedom of universities in terms of funding...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u33	Mr. Zablyanov, if you'll excuse me, you know the rules perfectly well. I have left you enough opportunity to find your place in the speech and make a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u34	Thank you for your recommendation, I'll try. What I want then in relation to my position to emphasise, which was affected in Mrs Damyanova's speech, is not related to some conservative resistance against the need for such a law. I started by saying that such a law is necessary and I welcome the actions of the Ministry. The question is to find the measure. And the way some of the accents were presented, it seems to me that she wasn't found. That's what I had to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u35	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, perhaps I should thank all the MPs who expressed their opinion here in plenary, and also the parliamentary committees, I had the opportunity to hear them in person. Almost all of them were positively critical and contained more or less support. This is proof that on the subject of education we can and should have a positive conversation, because this is the conversation about our common future. What happened in the higher education system over the last 30 years? 1990. 30% of high school graduates are accepted into the higher education system. Four years ago, we reached 84% on one side. On the other side of the pendulum, the ultimate massization. This was accompanied by a profile and extensive expansion of the system. We did not increase the number of state universities, but from a system based on specialized universities, except for three or four widely profiled, all became wider profiled. This is from local ambitions, from self-righteous strategic development strategies and because of the process of academic autonomy. There is no way Stara Zagora, Ruse or Burgas will not have a university either. This profile expansion of the system was also a response to the increased simultaneous irrational demand for higher education. Searching for the diploma itself, not because of knowledge, demand for going to the big city, to continue to support your parents. Higher schools responded to this demand by offering, mostly in professional fields of administration and administration,................................................................................................... The other thing that has happened is a final model of academic self-government, an extremely closed model of academic self-government, which only exists in three or four former socialist countries. The former President of the National Assembly, Academician Sendov, who was more or less involved at the time in the decision-making process, told me that this final decision at the time was an answer to the fear that the state would return to its totalitarian beginning, which 1990 was not so amazing, and was intended to protect progressive communities in higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences from this. But he himself says, and much more strongly, that today it is hurting. This makes higher schools self-sufficient, makes them closed, makes them unoccupied with the development of the country and regions. However, we must go together. We rely on higher schools for the development of the regions, we rely on our public development. That's why we're offering management contracts. There are much more limited forms of academic autonomy, as has been mentioned, separation of academic from financial management. In this case, there is no interference in academic, financial, administrative autonomy. We will neither choose rectors nor recall them. There's no way higher schools exist for themselves. It's a completely different decision whether you're looking at the tree or the forest. They came to me from the University of Lesotechnics to convince me how unique and important their specialty is in the professional field of administration and administration. I asked them, "Do you make the same decisions when you look at the tree and when you look at the forest?" They said, "No. " Obviously, the current model of uncoordinated, independent development does not generate enough qualities. I absolutely agree with Mr. Jablyanov that the target should not be optimization. We've already been through this period where we talked about optimization. We need to talk about development. We will propose development strategies in the Strategy for the Development of Higher Schools, in the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education after the period 2020. We are ready to present it in advance for a discussion. I also said that in the Committee on Education and Science. In these strategies should be: connectivity, should be promoting research, investing in young lecturers, because a higher school will have a quality education where young teachers are invested today and not working with lecturers borrowed from another higher school. That's why we propose that a teacher count for the accreditation of a university. That is why we offer minimum salary to young teachers, because academic autonomy has led to two and a half average differences between adult and younger teachers' salaries. One explanation is that young teachers do not participate in the bodies of academic self-government. They don't choose the rectors, they don't choose the deans. That is why we propose that they participate in the bodies of academic self-government. We have enough quality mechanisms. We've got accreditation, we've got internal evaluation systems, and for eight years we've tied funding to quality. This year, more than 60% of funding depends on quality. However, the question is: why didn't this produce an effect? Here and Mr. Hristov raised this question: why does not it produce an effect, why accreditation and internal systems are formal... what the European Commission and Mrs. Petrova quoted, why did the changed funding formula not change the incentives? We also have one of the best rating systems for having a better quality education and holding them responsible for the quality internationally recognised as one of the best rating systems because we have a deficit of responsibility. I'm talking about state schools. The owner's responsibility for long-term development is lacking. If any of you or I have created a private university, even if we retire, we'll care where it is in 20, 30 or 40 years. In state universities this is not necessarily for the rectors. They have a 4-year responsibility. Currently, the Act on Higher Education says that the only one who represents the owner of the state, nothing that is called state universities, the only one who represents the owner of the state, is the academic community inside. Yeah, well, the academic community has to hold the Rector accountable, and he has to hold them accountable. You know from mathematics the sum of two opposite vectors how much is zero. This is a problem for the long-term development of the system. We can't stand by, there's no way we can stand by the situation being forbidden from interfering with strategic governance. However, this meddling in strategic governance through the treaties will be in a mode of publicity and transparency. It can't be political. It will be in a mode of publicity and transparency. And here I'm telling you what we're going to want from them: we're going to want them to promote scientific activity because these higher schools, which have included in their internal wage rules an additional remuneration for promoting scientific activity, presented us the last issue of the rating system the other day. They are the highest growth in scientific activity. Here's something that isn't formal. The internal wage rules form incentives in every higher school. Otherwise, for the purposes of accreditation they have wonderfully written beautiful documents.. Strategies, internal quality systems, but they are locked in the cabinets and have not produced a policy. The evaluation and accreditation agency shall evaluate those documents. The approach is formal, based on documents and not real policies, accreditation does not give us a distinction, at the same time it is very demanding administratively and is appreciated by yourself all of what you said. By assessing themselves, they either do favors or get revenge. That is why we propose that the Higher Education Act should have something like educational auditors, that is, professional valuers in committees, besides academics, which, more or less, will unravel this knot. We also propose that to a greater extent accreditation should be subject to and to a greater extent evaluate internal policies. The adoption of the Law, as Mrs Damyanova said, will not happen alone. Much more is needed, but our state universities need to be poked, so to speak. Otherwise they sink into self-sufficientness and rurality because, as you said, the market is no longer national, the market is European and global. At the end of 2017, government leaders at the Gothenburg Summit decided to create European university networks as part of the European Educational Area. What the European University Network means means is that this university, which is involved in it, will issue a joint diploma. If a Bulgarian university makes such a network with a German and Austrian university, the Bulgarian student will be able to study here for three years, three months in Austria and three in Germany, for example, and thus receive a European diploma. This is a chance to keep Bulgarian students and young people here because young people, if I paraphrase the name of the Bulgarian film, know that the world is big and opportunities lurking everywhere. If we remain unrelated, we remain self-sufficient, this will not go beyond the crisis. The main strategy after 2020 must be connectivity. European university networks are a common standard. Only they can remove them from this state of self-sufficientness, we probably will not be able with the management contracts and it is imperative that they get involved. Even German and French higher schools are uncompetitive on the global educational market of the American and Chinese, which benefit from the effect of scale. That is why the decision was made to create European university networks. Again, this law itself is not enough. Many more things are needed. We will propose with the Higher Education Development Strategy for the next period these policies. I only comment on Mr. Tsonkov's words. He said: "Isn't it better to have a strategy first?" ▪ In fact, we have a strategy for developing higher education and a large part of the proposed changes are part of this strategy. It is an example of the joint work of all the political forces "Strategy, which has been worked by three governments, in which representatives of all the political forces have participated. I'm sorry Professor Klisarova is no longer a MP. She also had an active role. The strategy has been adopted with the support of all the political forces of the past National Assembly, which once again proves and brings me back to my first words that education is the subject on which we can have a positive conversation about our future and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u37	Thank you, dear Minister. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Vote 157 MPs: 111 against 1, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Honourable Members, I ask for an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the newly adopted Bill from 7 to 16 days to be completed on 13 December 2019. As the 14-day deadline ends on Wednesday, to have more opportunities by Friday, colleagues, to make our proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u39	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 157 MPs: for 156, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On November 27, 1919, Just 100 years ago, in the Paris suburb of Neui Bulgaria is forced to sign a contract, which is rightly called by the contemporaries. A dictation that marked the second national catastrophe for our country. The Bulgarian national issue, the Bulgarian national ideal is not only not solved, but is going into a phase where its implementation becomes extremely difficult. The Western outskirts, Tsaribrodsko, Bosilegrad, villages from Transko and Kulsko, Strumishka Pole, de facto and Belomore Thrace are being ripped off, and we are also losing those released during the war and Bulgarian-pomored areas of Pomoravito, Macedonia and Dobrudja. In addition to territorial losses, we are obliged to pay reparations of 2 billion. 250 million. golden francs, which represents about 22% of our national wealth in pre-war estimates. Bulgaria has to compensate neighbouring countries for Greece, Romania and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, with a large amount of livestock, to deliver coal from the Pernik Basin to the last five years, we had to limit the armed forces, police, border guards and a number of other restrictive measures. The most humiliating for us and the greatest disgrace to the so-called peacemakers is not in all these losses, but in the way they impose the clauses of this treaty. As our western border emerges, they separate villages, houses and courtyards, fields, churches, cemeteries, separate brothers and sisters, parents from their children, separate the living from their dead ancestors. The Romans would say, but history seems to love repetitions. Thus, the entire Versailles system of treaties with the defeated countries is not only the actual end of World War I, but because of the humiliating clauses it imposes is a harbinger of World War II. In fact, that is what the then US President Woodrow Wilson warned about, and it has no effect. This also prejudges Bulgaria's participation on the side of the Trilateral Pact during World War II, not to conquer foreign territories, but to seek a rematch for the taken from the Bulgarian ethnic ground. The New York Treaty is the most devastating agreement in Bulgarian history after the Liberation. It leads to a second national disaster with its political, economic and demographic consequences. There is no coincidence in the country even before the signing is organized protest marches. If in the years of 1944 the Bulgarian rulers had a desire, they had a clear policy for revision of this injustice, then oblivion and reconciliation are then frightening. The duty excuse that Moscow didn't give was up to thirty years ago. What prevents us today from defending our countrymen who remain outside Bulgaria? Who, if not the Bulgarian state, can do it? A hundred years later, we have the least moral obligation to take care of our brothers and sisters who remained under the dictatorship of Neue outside our country. It is not a little what is being done today by Bulgarian patriots.Spares, seminars and conferences, films, books, publications. It's not small, but it's not enough. Take an example from the peoples with similar historical destiny in the 20th century. What is their national policy in recent decades with regard to their countrymen abroad, without unnecessary emotions, without rematching, consistently following their national interests? This is what we should do as a Bulgarian state, we as MPs, we as worthy sons and daughters of our ancestors. This is our mission as the United Patriarchs in the country's rule and we think we have our successes. If we all go in that direction, success will be inevitable. It's the only way we'll have learned the right lesson from history, even though we're a hundred years late. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Now we move on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mrs. Rositsa Velkova to be admitted to the Chamber? Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Anna Bachvarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u43	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. At a meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. Member States face increasing difficulties in countering the shrinking of national tax bases due to different forms of tax planning, tax schemes which have become extremely complex in recent years and often benefit from increased mobility of capital and people in the internal market. The tax schemes used are usually developed in different jurisdictions and used to redirect taxable profit to courts with a more favourable tax regime or lead to a comprehensive reduction of the taxable person's tax liabilities. As a result, Member States often suffer a significant drop in tax revenue, preventing them from pursuing growth-friendly tax policies. It is therefore extremely important that the tax authorities of the Member States receive comprehensive and relevant information on tax schemes with a potential risk of tax evasion and of potentially aggressive tax planning. In this regard, and in view of the need for full harmonisation of national legislation with European law, the Rules of Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation relating to the cross-border arrangements to be disclosed. The Directive requires consultants and, in certain cases, taxable persons themselves to disclose information on cross-border tax schemes potentially linked to aggressive tax planning by providing it to the relevant competent authority. Member States shall exchange information on such tax schemes periodically with each other. The Republic of Bulgaria must bring its national legislation into line with the provisions of the Directive by 31 December 2019. The adoption of the amendments proposed in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code provides for the achievement of the following main objectives: - Bringing national legislation into line with European Union law. - Revenue authorities will receive comprehensive and relevant information on cross-border tax schemes with a potential risk of tax evasion by which they will be able to counter harmful tax practices by carrying out an appropriate risk assessment, proposing the removal of deficiencies and deficiencies in the regulatory framework and strengthening tax control. - To counter the transfer of taxable profit to more favourable tax jurisdictions to taxable persons, and to prevent the reduction of the taxable tax base; - Achieve better administrative cooperation between the tax administrations of the Member States; - Increasing the confidence of taxable persons in the tax system with a view to promoting voluntary compliance with tax legislation and refraining them from using aggressive tax planning schemes. Interested parties are the consultants who prepare, market, organise or manage the application or provide for the application of a cross-border tax scheme with a potential risk of tax evasion or undertake to provide directly or through other persons assistance, assistance or consultation with regard to those activities relating to a cross-border tax scheme; taxable persons who are granted a cross-border tax scheme with a potential risk of tax evasion are prepared to implement it or have implemented the first step of the tax scheme and the NRA. The draft Tax Insurance Procedure Code introduces provisions and rules according to which the income administration will receive information on cross-border tax schemes with a potential risk of tax evasion by the persons liable for it. The use of the "supplier' scheme should be understood in the broadest sense and may include an arrangement, agreement, agreement, agreement, opinion, scheme, plan, transaction and the like, as well as a series of such, may consist of several parts or several stages of implementation. This information will allow authorities to counter harmful tax practices by carrying out an appropriate risk assessment, proposing the removal of deficiencies and deficiencies in the regulatory framework and strengthening tax control. In addition, under the automatic exchange of information, the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, who is a competent authority within the meaning of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, will receive information on similar tax schemes developed or applied in other Member States that could have an impact on the tax revenues of the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft Law also proposes administrative and criminal provisions for non-compliance with the obligation to provide information on cross-border tax schemes that are of significant size, given the requirement of Directive (EU) 2018/822 that such penalties be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next report is the Commission's report on revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. At its regular meeting on 21 November 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate, Mrs. Irena Hristova, Head of the Department of the Tax Policy Directorate and Ms. Anna Bachvarova, Chief Expert in the Financial Policy Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Petkova. Its main objective is the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation relating to the cross-border arrangements to be disclosed. The directive was adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council in 2018. The provisions of the Directive should be introduced into national legislation by 31 December 2019 and enter into force from 1 July 2020. The aim of the new rules is to counter the shifting of profits to more favourable tax jurisdictions, as well as practices for overall tax reduction. The proposed changes meet the need for transparency in the field of taxes, which is a precondition for an effective fight against tax evasion and evasion and aggressive tax planning. The lack of transparency facilitates the activity of certain persons involved in the establishment, supply and implementation of aggressive tax planning schemes with cross-border effects. The information on the tax schemes provided at an early stage, even before their implementation, will allow Member States to analyse the harmful tax practices in due time and to remedy the shortcomings or shortcomings in their legislation. Strengthening the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and improving tax transparency rules are among the political priorities of the European Union. In this regard, a mechanism for providing information to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency for cross-border tax schemes where there is a potential risk of tax evasion by consultants or taxable persons is introduced. The information provided on the schemes will be exchanged in the order of automatic exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union. The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency shall be a competent authority for the Republic of Bulgaria within the meaning of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for the purposes of automatic exchange of information between Member States. Information for the purposes of automatic DPC exchange will only be provided for cross-border tax schemes which fall within at least one of the categories described in the Bill by characteristics which define the schemes as potentially linked to aggressive tax planning. Its cross-border nature is an important element of the tax scheme, i.e. the scheme affects more than one Member State or Member State and a third country. They are obliged to provide information on cross-border tax schemes, such as consultants who prepare, offer, organise or manage the application of a cross-border tax scheme with a potential risk of tax evasion or who are obliged to provide directly or through other persons assistance, assistance or consultation in relation to the preparation, marketing, organisation, management or provision of a cross-border tax scheme. In certain cases, the obligation to provide information on a cross-border tax scheme arises for the taxable person to whom such a scheme is granted is ready to apply it or has fulfilled the first step of the tax scheme. The draft Law also proposes administrative criminal provisions for non-compliance with the obligation to provide information on cross-border tax schemes which are of significant size, given the requirement of Directive (EU) 2018/822 that such penalties be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for a vote, 8 votes against abstention and without abstention, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Vassilev. I'm going to read you a message now. Honourable colleagues, information booths will be opened in the Northern lobby of the National Assembly, where information will be provided on the project. The campaign is under the patronage of the Committee on Health and is organized annually by the National Network of Health Mediators, Bulgarian Association for Innovative Medicine and the Health Problems of Minorities. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. I'm calling a 30-minute recess at work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u48	We continue with debates on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u49	Madam President, honourable Members! We are consistent in examining the directives of the European Union and, of course, we will support the implementation of these directives in Bulgarian legislation, because regardless of our political differences, we must strongly support the efforts of the Bulgarian state to collect its taxes and not allow tax fraud. At the same time, however, we would like to make some comments that we will bear in mind between first and second readings and second readings. Honourable Members, note that for the violation of the European directives the sanctions provided by the Bulgarian State in the face of the Ministry of Finance are absolutely unacceptable. For example, art. 278d: A person obliged to provide information on a cross-border tax scheme under art. 143yu, which failed to fulfil its obligation, is punished with a fine of 2000 to 5000 BGN. for individuals or with a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. for legal persons or sole proprietors. The same applies to the second: a person obliged to submit information on a cross-border tax scheme which provided incomplete or false information under art. 143a, is punished with a fine of 1000 to 3000 BGN. for individuals or with a penalty of 2000 to 8000 BGN. for legal persons and sole proprietors. And further on: the next penalty from 5000 to 10 000 leva. and respectively for consultants from 500 to 1500 BGN. for legal persons and sole traders. First, how do you imagine the difference between a single trader who sells newspapers in a kiosk in the city of X, and a company that has a turnover of 100 million, to be aligned and to pay a fine from 5000 to 10 000 levs.? If for the sole trader this is a problem, honourable Members, what a fine for a person who will violate the euro directives and hide information about hidden taxes, and we will fine him 5000 or 10 000 BGN. with a turnover of several tens or hundreds of million, or there are several large legal entities in Bulgaria with more than 1 billion BGN turnover per year? Well, they'll send a box of candy and another treat to the NRA when they're paying! They'll send them the $2,000 cash fine. And they'll send them a box of candy to drink! It's just not serious. We here will offer drastic increases in these sanctions. And I am sure, honourable Members on the right, that you will support them, as this is in the interests of the fisca. Secondly, there is still no implementation of our recommendation here - there are no European comparisons of what these sanctions are in Britain or in the Czech Republic or in France. There's no information. I would very much like to believe that this has not happened intentionally to cover up the tax offenders, because I have to tell you quite frankly that in these proposed pseudo-sanctions of several levs, this can also be accepted as a certain deliberateness, which is absolutely unacceptable. Next, on the issue of the Central Register of Member States of information on cross-border tax schemes, where it says that the exchange of information under art. 143yu is carried out electronically through the CCN network and so on. Yes, but the danger for Bulgaria is very great. It is no longer a danger, but it is real that the information at present for many countries will run unilaterally for Bulgaria. We will continue to submit information, but some countries have made a decision and have banned the submission of information to Bulgaria because of it, I would call it the tragedy with the leak of NRA data. Therefore, Bulgaria, in order to benefit from these directives of the European Union, must solve its internal problems, otherwise we will implement the directives only unilaterally. Besides, we're paying attention! In the motives of the Bulgarian Government, the Bulgarian Government, on their page. 2, related to aggressive tax planning schemes, they say: But it does not define a minimum standard that must be implemented. Here's our note: where's the standard? When the Ministry of Finance introduces a bill for the introduction of directives suggesting each Member State of the European Union, it must also propose specific standards when introducing these directives. There are no such standards! Therefore, our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance will be ready from now on and at second reading in the Budget Committee, and then in the Chamber, we will ask the Ministry of Finance to tell us what specific deadlines and what parameters these standards will be provided. Finally, by supporting these directives and expressing our opinion on certain issues, particularly regarding sanctions, I will also take advantage of expressing a personal opinion which is shared by many colleagues. I have had the honour of participating in discussions at an expert meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the European Commission in a narrower circle, and also in the UK Budget Commission, related to the problem of the European Union's tax system and taking measures against tax evasion, to tell you that these proposals of the European Union are also somewhat palliative. It is not acceptable in the European Union not to take specific measures to close offshore areas, to prevent hundreds of companies in the European Union and their partners from hiding taxes protected by international law and the European Union from taking any measures. Until this issue is resolved, we will be looking here for a non-payment of taxes of several million, and certain legal and natural persons will continue to hide money from taxpayers from their own countries in romantic islands outside the European Union. So our Parliament must also think and work towards a complete ban on offshore areas as a means of tax evasion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Any lines to Mr. Gechev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! The amendment and supplement bill proposed by the Council of Ministers, as said by my colleague, who spoke before me, and the Commission's opinion that I have read, are indeed responsible for entering the EU's tax avoidance regime, which we know is a scourge and indeed the only objective is to raise more money in the fissure. What he's talking about in the first place, and I think some of the sanctions that are in the Law right now aren't very big. But I would like to point out that these sanctions, in the size of which he was exposed by the pre-negotiate, are only for failure to provide information. I mean, they're not sanctions if someone doesn't pay their taxes, but just if they don't provide information. In subsequent tax checks and detection of infringements will naturally also result in greater sanctions. But I think this is a topic that we can discuss between first and second readings. The other is about the information system that has been mentioned in the discussion so far. It is done by a European body. Everyone will have an obligation to provide information so that it can be exchanged more easily between tax institutions throughout Europe. That's what we're talking about, guys! The only objective of the bill is really our alignment to the European directive and then certainly more money in the fissure of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2019. Vote 118 MPs: 114, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the third item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PAID SERVICES AND PAID SYSTEM. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to Mrs. Ilieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Before I introduce you to the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I would like to ask for a procedure of admission on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, of the following persons: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u54	Please, a voting regime for the admission of the guests designated by Mrs. Ilieva. Vote 117 MPs: 114, against none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted.. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u55	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019. At a meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The proposed legislative changes laid down in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems reflect the requirements of European Union legislation in the regulatory framework on the provision of payment services, as well as updating and clarifying the legal framework on the exercise of payment supervision. The adoption of the bill aims to: - Achieve full compliance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/2366, respectively reflecting changes resulting from the Corrigendum to Directive (EU) 2015/2366; - reporting of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2019/518, - reporting of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2018/389, as well as ensuring the possibility of effective exercise of the powers of the Bulgarian National Bank arising from it; - the introduction of relevant changes to regulate the implementation of guidelines adopted by the European Banking Authority on the reporting requirements for fraud data pursuant to Article 96 (6) of Directive (EU) 2015/2366 as well as guidelines for outsourcing; - improvement of the regulations relating to effective payment supervision. The Bulgarian National Bank, payment service providers and e-money issuers and natural and legal persons, payment service users are interested parties. The more substantial amendments proposed in the Bill are: - Ensure regular receipt of information from service providers operating in a restricted network or from providers of electronic communications networks or services, as well as the need to regulate the order for their registration in the Register of the Bulgarian National Bank under art. 19 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems; - ensuring the possibility of further verification of licensing or of acquiring control over the participation in the capital of a payment institution, an electronic money company, respectively, to comply with certain legal requirements by persons holding less than 10% of the capital; - the introduction of a delegation to a regulation setting out the requirements for the safeguard measures applied by payment institutions and electronic money companies, as well as the order to deal with complaints from BNB and a payment service provider; - more detailed regulation of issues related to the unique identifier of a payment account pursuant to Regulation (EU) 260/2012; - regulation of the settlement of certain payment transactions with cards in BGN in the RINGS payment system resulting from security and effectiveness of payment systems, as well as avoiding the formation of currency-currencies; - establishment of a special order regarding the limitation applicable to acts for the identification of infringements under the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, in view of the legal and factual complexity in establishing this type of administrative infringements, as well as an increase in the amount of the fines and penalty payments envisaged for infringements committed in order to ensure effective prevention in respect of compliance with the requirements of the Law. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide for an amendment to: - Art. 252, para. 1 of the Criminal Code, which criminalises the performance without authorisation of an electronic money issue activity; - Art. 16, p. 15 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, insofar as the registration, refusal to register and delete the providers of information services are within the competence of the Board of Directors of BNB; - Art. 62, para. 10 of the Law on Credit Institutions, which provides for the keeping of a register by the BNB of requests by the Prosecutor General or from a deputy authorised by him to the banks for the disclosure of bank secrecy in the cases referred to in that provision to be dismissed while maintaining such a register with the Prosecutor General. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 17 votes for the draft budget and financial committee, no objection and no abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u57	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2019. At its meeting held on 20 November 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Mrs. Rositsa Petkova State Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets. Advisor to the manager, and Mr. Mihail Dimov, Director of the Board of Payment Supervision. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, who pointed out that it aims to refine the national legal framework in the field of payment services in accordance with European Union legislation, improve the legal framework with a view to ensuring the possibility of effective exercise of payment supervision and better protection of consumers of payment services in Bulgaria. The Bill introduces amendments arising both from the application of the Payment Services Directive in the internal market and the need to introduce national measures for the implementation of the Cross-border Payments Regulation in euro in respect of certain fees for cross-border payments in the European Union and conversion fees which enter into force at the end of this year. The regulation requires the levelling of the fees for cross-border payments in euro within the European Union with those for payments in BGN in the country, which have the same characteristics in terms of initiating, carrying out and completing the payment. Mrs. Petrova pointed out that a ban is introduced on a person who does not have a license to carry out a payment and/or electronic money provision activity, to use in his name, in his advertising or in any other activity words meaning to carry out such an activity. The supervisory authority shall be given the opportunity to regularly receive information on the activity of providers that perform services on a limited network or electronic communications network providers. Measures are provided for to notify the public when granting an authorisation to carry out an activity as a payment institution or an electronic money company. The elements included in the calculation of the amount of own funds of payment institutions shall be clarified. In order to ensure effective prevention, an increase in the amount of fines and administrative penalties provided for in infringements of the Law is also proposed. Mrs. Petrova noted that other changes were proposed aimed at improving the regulatory and regulatory framework of payment services and payment systems, increasing the effectiveness of payment supervision and better protection of payment service users. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, with no objection, and 4 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, do you have a say in this? I don't see any desire to make a statement. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 902-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. They voted 119 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving to the fourth item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR MARKS AND GEOGRAPHIC Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 27 June 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u59	Thank you, Madam President. "Department VI " (Applications for registration of trademarks.) The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42, such as: "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The application for registration of a trade mark shall be submitted to the Patent Office, by mail, fax or electronic means. Where the application is submitted through the Patent Office e-service portal, identification through a unique identifier of the applicant and the industrial property representative and electronic signature shall not be mandatory. 2. In para. 2 the words "the classification' shall be replaced by "the classification' and "the classification' shall be replaced by the words "the classification';
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u60	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VI and art. 42, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. Vote 119 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u61	Description and classification of goods and/or services. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43, with all the words........................................................................................................ Date of submission and date of submission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, as in para. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u62	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote Articles 43 and 44, respectively, with the corrections supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 98, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u63	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45: "Rights of priority" Art. 45. (1) The right of priority of the applicant to later applications for identical or similar marks intended for identical or similar goods or services shall be recognised from the date of submission of the application to the Patent Office under art. 44, para. 1. (2) The right of priority of the applicant or his successor shall be recognised from the date of the previous application, provided that: 1. the previous application has been filed regularly in a Member State of the Paris Convention or the World Trade Organisation; 2. the previous request shall be a first request within the meaning of Article 2. 4 of the Paris Convention and is for the same mark and for the same goods or services; 3. the application is submitted to the Patent Office within 6 months of the date of submission of the previous application; 4. the claim for priority has been made by submitting the application, indicating the date and country of the previous application and paying the State priority fee; within two months of the date of submission of the application, the applicant submitted a priority document issued by the competent authority of the Party in which the previous application was lodged. (3) Regularly applied for under para. 2, p. 1 is an application which has an established date of submission regardless of the outcome of its proceedings. (4) The right of the applicant's or successor's exhibition priority shall be recognised from the date of exposure of the goods or services marked by the mark applied for to an official or officially recognised exhibition, provided that: 1. the application has been lodged within 6 months of the date of the first exposure of the goods or services; 2. the application is for the same brand and for the same goods or services; 3. The claim for priority shall be made with the submission of the application, indicating the date of the exhibition and the party in which the exhibition is organised and paying the State priority fee; within two months of the date of submission of the application, the applicant shall submit a document issued by the administration of the exhibition proving the date of exhibition of the goods or services covered by the trade mark applied for. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46: "Formal expertise" Art. 46. (1) For each request with an established date of submission shall be checked whether the fees under art. 42, para. 6. Where fees are not paid or paid in full, the applicant shall be granted a 14-day period for their payment. Upon expiry of that period, fees may be paid within an additional 14-day period, due in double terms. If the fees are not paid within this period, the application shall be deemed withdrawn and the proceedings under it shall be terminated by a decision of a state expert under art. 64, notified to the applicant. (2) Within one month of the submission of the payment document, an expert shall be carried out to verify whether the requirements of art. 42, para. 2, para. 3, p. 5? 14 and para. Article 7 43. Where the application concerns a collective or certification mark, the compliance of the rules for use with the requirements of art. 39, para. Art. 3, respectively 40, para. 2. Where irregularities are detected, a one-month period shall be granted to the applicant for their removal. (3) Where the application does not meet the requirements of art. 42, para. 2 and within the term under para. Second sentence, third sentence, the applicant divides the application, the split applications retain the date of submission, the priority of the initial application accordingly. (4) When within the term under para. Second sentence, third sentence, the applicant does not remove the irregularities, the proceedings shall be terminated by a decision of the State expert under art. 64, notified to the applicant. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u64	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Articles 45 and 46 of the Commission Report and the text of the importer for art. 47, supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 95, none, abstention 23. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u65	The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, as in para. 2 and 3 the word "initiative' is replaced by "inquiry'. ?? 49?? Post of the application.? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49, as in para. 4. 1. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the proceedings under it have been terminated pursuant to art. 46, para. 1); 2. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. has entered into force a decision refusing to recognise the operation of the international registration under the rules of art. 39, para. Art. 3 and Art. 40, para. 2 and the requirements of art. 41, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u66	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 48, Art. 49 as amended by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 23. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u67	"Fifteen', limitation and changes in the application. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. "Supposes by third parties." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51, as in para. 2 after the word "Patent Office" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u68	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 50 and the text of the importer for art. 51 as amended by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 87, none against, 20 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u69	"Section VII" (O "O "). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52: supplier and content of the formations Art. 52. (1) Within three months of the publication under art. 49, para. 1 which for international registrations of marks begins two months after the publication under art. 49, para. 3 on grounds of refusal under art. 12 opposition may be lodged before the Patent Office against the registration of a mark applied for under this law or against the recognition of the international registration of a mark on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: Article 1 12, para. 1 by the proprietor of an earlier mark within the meaning of art. 12, para. 2 and 3 by a co-owner without the consent of other co-owners or by the licensee of an exclusive licence of the earlier trade mark; Art. 2. 12, para. 4 by the actual proprietor of an unregistered trademark, which is used in the commercial activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, where an application for registration has been filed and the fees under art. 42, para. 6; Art. 3. 12, para. 5 and 6 by the actual proprietor of the mark; Art. 4. 12, para. 7 by the trader who claims that the brand consists of or contains its company; Art. 5. 12, para. 8 by the person who, under the relevant legislation, may exercise the right to prohibit the use of a trade mark on the basis of an earlier registered geographical indication. (2) The opposition shall be submitted in two identical copies, except where it is electronically submitted with a qualified electronic signature. The opposition shall contain: 1. details of the opponent; 2. information on the existence of legal interest; 3. an entry number, the name of the mark and the goods or services against which it is directed; 4. Reason and reasons. (3) The opposition shall be subject to: 1. a document for the state fee paid if the payment is by bank transfer; 2. power of attorney, where appropriate; 3. evidence where necessary; 4. a court certificate of proceedings initiated or a judgment entered into force where the opposition is under art. 12, para. 5. (4) The opposition under para. 1 must: 1. shall be based on one or more earlier rights provided that they belong to the same person; 2. shall be based on a part or all of the goods or services to which the earlier right applies; 3. be directed against part or against all goods or services of the contested mark. ................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: "Contents of the formations" Art. 53. The opposition shall be considered by an opposition composition consisting of three experts, one of whom shall be a state expert within the meaning of art. 64 and Chairman of the Chamber. The composition shall be appointed by order of the President of the Patent Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u70	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section VII and the version of Art. Art. 52, Art. 53 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 90, none, abstention 22. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u71	supposed to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54, as in para. 2 is amended as follows: The International Bureau of Intellectual Property shall be informed of the opposition to the recognition of an international trade mark registration, hereinafter referred to as the International Bureau of Intellectual Property. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: "Acceptance check and formality of positions Art. 55. (1) For each opposition shall be checked whether the period under art. 52, para. 1, whether there is a legal interest, whether the requirements of art. 1 are met. 52, para. 1, t. 2, proposals third and fourth, and para. 4 t. 1 and whether a state fee has been paid. (2) An opposition by which the requirements of para. 1 as well as opposition lodged before the beginning of the term under art. 52, para. 1 shall be inadmissible and proceedings under it shall not be initiated, which shall be notified to the Parties. (3) For each acceptable opposition shall be checked whether it meets the other requirements of art. 52, para. 2 and para. 4 t. 2 and 3 and, where irregularities are found, the person who has given it shall be informed and a period of one month shall be granted for their removal. Where irregularities are not eliminated within the time limit, opposition proceedings shall be terminated. (4) The refusal to initiate and terminate the proceedings shall be made by decision of the Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u72	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer of art. 54 with the amendments so made, supported by the Commission and the version of art. 55 on the Commission report. Please cancel the vote.. Ms. Saveklieva's request to read a paragraph. Please repeat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u73	It's about para. 3: For each eligible opposition it shall be checked whether it meets the other requirements of art. 52, para. 2 and para. 4 t. 2 and 3 and, where irregularities are found, the person who has given it shall be informed and a period of one month shall be granted for their removal. Where irregularities are not eliminated within that period, opposition proceedings shall be terminated. I've missed the word this one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u74	A misread, there's no editorial amendment. I shall put to the vote art. 54 with the corresponding amendment supported by the Commission and the version of art. 55 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 85, none, abstention 24. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u75	.................................................................................................. Under art. 56 there is a proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: 56... is out........................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: "Art. 56 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56, as in para. 1 shall be added at the end, if the Parties so agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u76	Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal made by me to delete the text of art. 56, it was justified and in relation to the text of the importer which provided for, where several positions were submitted on one application for registration, the possibility of them being united in one proceeding. However, this leads to access to the materials of the proceedings between competing traders and to a breach of the principle of competition, to the possibility of damaging the interests of the parties. In addition, we have the subjective assessment of the administrative authority, whether or not they will be threatened, which also raises certain doubts as to whether we will have an objective production, but with the version proposed by the Commission if the parties agree to bring together the opposition proceedings, this omission is overcome. Therefore, I withdraw my proposal, as well as the proposal under art. 74, which is also related to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 13, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Since Mr. Mitev withdrew his proposal, we will not vote on it. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 56 with the corresponding supplement supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 87, against 10, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: "Manufacture of the formations" Art. 57. (1) Upon completion of the eligibility and formal regularity check, the opposition of the two parties shall be notified, providing them with a three-month period for reaching an agreement starting from the date of notification. That period may be extended once by three months at the written request signed by the Parties, accompanied by a document of state fee paid, if the payment is by bank transfer. (2) At the same time as the notification under para. 1 the applicant of the trade mark, subject to opposition, shall be granted one copy of the opposition together with the evidence, where they are presented. (3) When the parties deposit an agreement within the term under para. 1, opposition proceedings shall be terminated; and half of the State opposition fee paid is return to the person who submitted it upon request. (4) When within the term under para. 1 shall not be deposited an agreement, a two-month period shall be granted to the applicant for response to opposition and evidence, if any presented. (5) The applicant's response shall be made available to the person, submitted the opposition to give an opinion in one month a deadline. (6) If within the term under para. 5 The opponent submitted an opinion, it shall be submitted to the applicant for a response within one month of notification, provided that new facts, circumstances and/or evidence relevant to the opposition are presented. (7) After the expiry of the term under para. 6 The composition of the opposition shall proceed to the examination of the opposition, the applicant's responses, the opponent's opinion and the evidence, if any. The examination of the opposition shall be limited to the legal bases and reasons in relation to them. (8) Answers, opinions and evidence from the parties received after the expiry of the time limits under para. 4, 5 and 6, shall be taken into account when examining the opposition and shall be sent to the other Party, provided that the deadline for granting them is not met for respectable reasons. The composition under art. 53 may require additional evidence and material from the Parties where necessary. They shall be submitted to the other Party for an opinion within one month. (9) After the clarification of all the facts and the circumstances of the dispute, the composition of the opposition shall take a decision, with: 1. the opposition is left without respect; 2. a complete or partial refusal of the The registration of the mark is subject to opposition. (10) Decisions on positions shall be laid down in a three-month period after the collection of the evidence and materials under para. 6. (11) Up to the decision on the opposition The application for registration of an opposition mark shall be limited to part of the goods or services subject to the dispute, the opponent shall be given the opportunity within 14 days of the notification to confirm whether it supports the opposition against the remaining goods or services. If the opponent withdraws the opposition in view of the restriction, its proceedings is terminated. (12) Where an earlier trade mark right has been transferred before an opposition decision has been taken, the new proprietor shall be given the opportunity within 14 days of notification to confirm whether he supports the opposition. If the new owner does not respond or withdraw the opposition, the proceedings therein shall be terminated. (13) Where the opposition is filed against part of the goods or services of the application for registration of a trade mark, within the period after the expiry of the period under art. 52, para. 1 and before the expiry of the term referred to in Article 1. 57, para. 6 The applicant may request a division of the application. The subject matter of the separate request may be only the goods and services not contested in the opposition included in the original application. (14) The order of formation, submission and consideration of positions shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. A request for proof of real use. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') held that the Court of Justice of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59, as in para. 1 the word "recruitment" is replaced by "recruitment" and in para. 4 the word "initiative' is replaced by "inquiry'. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u79	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 57 on the Commission report; the text of Art. 58 by importer supported by the Commission; art. 59 with the corresponding amendment supported by the Commission; and the text of the importer for art. 60, supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 84, none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u80	?? 61????????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer, as the first sentence shall be amended as follows: 52, para. 1 where no opposition has been lodged or, respectively, since the entry into force of the decision rejecting the opposition in whole or in part as unfounded, a decision to register the trade mark shall be taken. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62 as in para. 1 the word "prerequisites' is replaced by "conditions'. ........ Renewal of the expertise in substance........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. ??????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. Renewal of the registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65, as in para. 1 after the word "supplied" is added. supposes the name and address of the applicant or holder. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66. seven changes in the trade mark. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. supplication of the registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68, like everywhere in para. 2 the word "recruitment" is replaced by "recruitment" and in para. 3 after the word "supplied" is added to "state."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u81	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 61 with the corresponding amendment supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 62 with the corresponding replacement supported by the Commission; the import text for art. Art. 63, Art. 64, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 65 with the corresponding additive supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. Art. 66. 67, supported by the Commission; and 68 with the corresponding replacement supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 85, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u82	"Section VIII.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. .............................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, as in para. 1, t. 4 the word "recruitment" is replaced by "recruitment" and in para. 2 after the words two state experts "supplied" shall be added within the meaning of art. 64........................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. supposed to be the subject of the complaint and the request. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: "Content of complaints and requests Art. 71. (1) The complaints referred to in art. 69, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall contain: 1. details of the complainant; 2. legitimate legal interest; 3. number, name of the trade mark and the goods or services covered by the complaint; 4. Reason and reasons. (2) To the appeals under para. 1 shall apply: 1. a document for the state fee paid if the payment is by bank transfer; 2. power of attorney, where appropriate; 3. proof when necessary. (3) The complaints referred to in art. 69, para. 1, t. 3 shall be submitted in two identical copies, except when submitted electronically with a qualified electronic signature. Complaints must contain: 1. details of the complainant; 2. legitimate legal interest; 3. number, name of the trade mark and the goods or services covered by the complaint; 4. Reason and reasons. (4) To the appeals under para. 3 shall apply: 1. a document for the state fee paid if the payment is by bank transfer; 2. power of attorney, where appropriate; 3. proof when necessary. (5) Requests shall be submitted in two identical copies, except when submitted electronically with a qualified electronic signature. The requests shall contain: 1. data for the wisher; 2. number, name of the trade mark and the goods or services covered by the request; 3. details of the application under art. 52, para. 1, t. 2 when the request is under art. 36, para. 3, p. 1 in relation to art. 12, para. 4; 4. justified legal interest where required; 5. Reason and reasons. (6) The requests shall be accompanied by: 1. a document for the state fee paid if the payment is by bank transfer; 2. power of attorney, where appropriate; 3. evidence where necessary; 4. a court certificate of proceedings initiated or a judgment entered into force where the request is under art. 12, para. 5. (7) Requests may be submitted against a part or all of the goods or services for which the trade mark is registered. (8) When requests are under art. 36, para. 3, they may be lodged on the basis of one or more earlier rights, for part or for all goods or services covered by the earlier law. (9) In the cases under para. 8 earlier rights should belong to the same person. .................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u83	Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I vote on the name of Section VIII; the text of the importer as art. 69 with the corresponding replacement supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 70, supported by the Commission; the version of art. 71 according to the Commission Report; and the text of the importer for art. 72, supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u84	The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') have held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, such as: 1. In para. 1 and 2 after the word "supplied' the words "supplied' shall be added. 2. In para. 3 after the word "supplied" the word "supplied" shall be added to the word "supplied" and the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied." 3. In para. 4 the word "prerequisites' is replaced by "conditions'. 4. In para. 5 the words "inadequacies" and "inadequacies" shall be replaced by "inregularities" and "inregularities" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u85	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 73 with the corresponding additives and replacements which are supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 83, against none, abstentioned 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u86	.................................................................................................. Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, who called him on Article 74 to be deleted, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u87	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74, such as: 1. In para. 1 the word "may" is replaced by "may" and is finally added "at the agreement of the parties." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Where several applications for the revocation of the registration of a trade mark have been submitted under the same trade mark, they may be merged into one proceedings upon agreement of the Parties and provided that they have been lodged simultaneously.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u88	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. They voted 110 MPs: 28, against 24, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 74 with the corresponding replacements and amendments that the Commission supports. Vote 100 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u89	? 75?????? 75??????????????????????????????????????? Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75 para. 7... is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75 para. 7 is amended as follows: The composition of art. 69, para. 2 may require additional evidence and material from the Parties where necessary. They shall be submitted to the other Party for an opinion within one month. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, such as: 1. In para. 4 the word "insufficient' is replaced by "unregular'. 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: seven Responses, opinions and evidence submitted after the period under para. 5 and 6 shall be taken into account in the handling of complaints and shall be sent to the parties to the proceedings, provided that the time limit for granting them is not complied with for respectable reasons. The composition under art. 69, para. 2 may require additional evidence and material from the Parties where necessary. They shall be submitted to the other Party for an opinion within one month.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u90	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I do not know whether it is a technical mistake or another reason, but anyway, this proposal, which I have made, has been adopted by the Commission. These are the last two sentences of the changed para. 7. In this sense, I withdraw this proposal. In order not to take the floor and on the next text, I withdraw the proposal, which is there, which is also in point. 1 is taken entirely by the Commission. This is about completing the proceedings with the necessary evidence, without imposing the form of an injury, especially where the failure to complete the proceedings with these evidence by the parties is made for respectable reasons. Furthermore, the main principle of administrative justice is not to have a prejudice with regard to the presentation of evidence in the proceedings, and this is a principle adopted in the civil process. In the civil trial, the prejudice is also too controversial. With the amendments that the Commission is proposing, however, this problem, which exists and is quite serious, I would even say, in dubious compliance and with the Constitution in view of the right to the protection of the entities, is resolved. In this sense, I am satisfied and withdraw the proposals under art. Art. 75 and under Art. 76. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. Vote 100 MPs: 25 against 35, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 75 with the corresponding replacements and amendments supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u93	They voted 107 MPs: for 86, against 7, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u94	?? 76?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 a point shall be placed after the word......................................................................................... 2. Al. 5 is amended as follows: The composition referred to in art. 69, para. 2 may require additional evidence and material from the Parties where necessary. They shall be submitted to the other Party for an opinion within one month. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, which he withdrew. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76: ? Production of requests Art. 76. (1) Upon completion of the eligibility and formality check of requests, one copy of the request and the evidence, where presented, shall be made available to the proprietor of the right to an opposition mark within two months and where the request is under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and for presentation of evidence of use of the brand in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Opposition and evidence, where presented, shall be provided to the applicant for an opinion within one month. (3) When the request is under art. 36, para. 3, p. 2 (b) and the opposition has challenged the existence of the earlier copyright, the applicant shall be informed that it is to be established in a court of law and given a one-month period for the submission of a court certificate of proceedings. (4) If within the term under para. 2 The applicant submitted an opinion, it shall be submitted to the proprietor of the mark for a reply within one month of notification, provided that new facts, circumstances and/or evidence relevant to the dispute are presented. (5) Answers, opinions and evidence submitted after the period under para. 4 shall be taken into account when examining the requests and shall be sent to the parties to the proceedings, provided that the time limit for granting them is not complied with for respectable reasons. The composition under art. 69, para. 2 may require additional evidence and material from the Parties where necessary. They shall be submitted to the other Party for an opinion within one month. (6) With the expiry of the term under para. 4 The Opposition Chamber shall proceed to the examination of the request, the opposition and the reply of the proprietor of the trade mark, the opinion of the applicant and the evidence, if any. (7) Upon clarification of all the facts and circumstances of the dispute, the Opposition Chamber shall draw up an opinion on a decision by which: 1. leaves the request for revocation or deletion of the registration of a trade mark without respect; 2. revoke or delete the registration of a trade mark for part of the goods or services; 3. cancel or delete the registration of a mark for all goods or services. (8) The decisions under para. 7 shall be taken by the President of the Patent Office or by a Vice-President authorised by him. (9) In the case of partial revocation or partial deletion of registration, the issued registration certificate shall be replaced by a new one. (10) Decisions on requests for revocation or for deletion shall be given within three months after the collection of the evidence and materials under para. 4. (11) Where, pending a decision on the request, the effect of the registration of the trade mark at issue is terminated or the proprietor of the trade mark renounces the right to part or all goods or services, the applicant shall be given the opportunity within 14 days of notification to confirm whether he maintains the request. If the applicant does not respond or withdraw the request, the proceedings shall be terminated. (12) Where an earlier trade mark right has been transferred before a decision has been taken on the request, the new proprietor shall be given the opportunity within 14 days of notification to confirm whether he maintains the request. If the new owner does not respond or withdraw the request, the proceedings shall be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. They voted 103 MPs: 23, against 29, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 76. Vote 98 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u96	A request for proof of real use. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77, as in para. 7 the word "Marcos' is replaced by "the mark'. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') held that the Court of Justice The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78, as in para. 3, p. 4 the word "Marcos" shall be replaced by the person who is responsible for the trade mark, in para. 7 and 8 the word "initiatives" is replaced by "inquiry" and everywhere the word "returns" is replaced by "receipts."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u97	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 77 and 78 with the proposals for replacement made by the Commission in both articles. They voted 108 MPs: 90, none, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u98	Aborting the proceedings in The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, as in para. 1, t. 6 the word "the mark' is replaced by "the mark'. "Execution of time limits - Article The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80, and after the word "supplied', "state' is added. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81, as in para. 1 after the word "supplied" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u99	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 79, 80 and 81 with the proposals for replacement in art. 79 made by the Commission and the proposals for a supplement made by the Commission in art. Art. 80, Art. 81. Vote 108 MPs: 89, against 2, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u100	Article 82 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. "Publication of registration.. Article Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 83 is The official newsletter of the Patent Office shall also make a publication on all entries in the State Register of Marks following the registration of the mark. The publication shall take place no later than 3 months after the entry into the State Trade Register. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 83 to create a new para. 4 containing the following content: The official newsletter of the Patent Office shall also make a publication on all entries in the State Register of Marks following the registration of the mark. The publication shall take place no later than 3 months after the entry into the State Trade Register. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u101	Statements? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal I have made is in connection with greater legal certainty. In the course of the discussions in the Working Group, however, we have received sufficient assurance from the Patent Office that even the publication in the electronic register, which currently represents the official newsletter of the Patent Office, i.e. it is electronic, is not paper-based, is reliable enough, enables all third parties who are interested to get acquainted with the submitted registration documents. In this regard, I withdraw the offer. I support the text of the importer. In view of the procedural economy of not taking the floor again, I withdraw the proposal to create a new art. 117a, since I believe that the creation of this provision will complicate production and will raise a lot of questions that must be resolved in practice, for which there is obviously no readiness at this time and there is no attitude either by the Patent Office or by some of the interested entities involved in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u103	Statements? I can't see. I will put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 82. They voted 106 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. They voted 102 MPs: 21, against 31, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission for art. 83. Voted 103 MPs: 89, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u104	Article 84 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 84. 5... The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 84. 5 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 84: ? Court of Justice's control???? Art. 84. (1) The decisions referred to in art. 75, para. 4 when the complaint is left without respect, art. 75, para. Art. 12, Art. 76, para. Art. 8 and art. 77, para. 10 may be appealed to the Administrative Court. The city of Sofia, within two months of notification. (2) The decisions referred to in art. 48, para. Art. 2, Art. 50, para. Art. 2, Art. 55, para. Art. 4, Art. 59, para. Art. 4, Art. 60, para. Art. 2, Art. 62, para. Art. 2, Art. 73, para. Art. 6, Art. 78, para. Art. 8 and art. 79, para. 3 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of notification. (3) Refusals to enter the state registers and refusal to renew the registration may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of notification. (4) The President of the Patent Office shall, upon appeal of acts referred to in Chapter 1 and under this Chapter, be the party to the proceedings. (5) In the event of annulment by court of decisions under para. 1.. 3 on the basis of the facts and evidence which the applicant could have known, pointed out and submitted in the proceedings before the Patent Office, no costs were awarded to the administrative authority...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u105	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 84 by importer. They voted 107 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u106	? Chapter 3???????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. ? Section I??? Registration? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. ? 85?..................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85. .................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u107	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name by importer of Chapter Three, the name by importer of Section I, the text of the importer as art. 85 and the text of the importer for art. 86. Vote 108 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u108	"Acceptances for refusal of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. .................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88. The right to make a statement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89, and the words.................................................................................................. The right to use the right to use the right to use the right to use the right to use the right The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u109	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for Articles 87, 88, 89 and 90 with the proposal for replacement in the text of art. 89, made by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 85, none, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u110	.......Abort of legal protection.......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91, as in t. 2 the words "with the end of' shall be replaced by "the end of'. supplied registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93. The legal consequences of the deletion and the claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u111	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 91, 92, 93 and 94 with the proposal for replacement in the text of art. 91, made by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u112	Section II - Applications for registration of geographical indications. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The request shall be submitted to the competent authority of the Member State in which the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95, such as: "1." In para. 1 sentence second is amended as follows: "When the application is submitted through the Patent Office e-service portal, identification through a unique identifier of the applicant and of the industrial property representative, and electronic signature are not mandatory.' 2. In para. 3, p. 4 the words................................................................................................... 3. In para. 6 the words "order adopted by the Council of Ministers" shall be replaced by the order under art. 42, para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: ...................................)........................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96, as in para. 1 and 2 the words "inadequacies" and "inadequacies" shall be replaced by "inregularities" and "inregularities" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u113	Are there any speeches? I can't see? I shall put to the vote the following texts: text of the importer for the name of the division; text of the importer for art. 95 with the proposed editorial amendments and a replacement text proposed by the Commission; and the text of the importer as art. 96 with the Commission's proposals for replacement. They voted 111 MPs: 91, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u114	"97 " Expertise on the substance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98, such as: "1." In para. 1 sentence 3 is amended as follows: "The application shall be submitted to the Patent Office, by mail, by fax or by electronic means. Where the application is submitted through the Patent Office e-service portal, identification through a unique identifier of the applicant and of the industrial property representative and electronic signature shall not be mandatory. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 the words................................................................................................... 3. In para. 5 and 6 the words "inadequacies" and "inadequacies" shall be replaced by "instructions" and "instructions" shall be replaced by "instructions" and "instructions." 4. In para. 7 shall be added at the end of one month. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99, as in para. 1 words before t. 1 "Consequences in disputes under art. 69, para. 2 considerations and reviews shall be replaced by the opinions referred to in art. 69, para. 2 deal with disputes under the. supplied by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u115	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. 97; the text of the importer for 98 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission; proposals for replacement and supplement; the text of the importer for art. 99 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; and the text of the importer for art. 100. They voted 111 MPs: 90, none, abstention 21. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u116	The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice') The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, as in para. 2 and para. 3 the word "initiative' is replaced by "inquiry'. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. .................................................................................. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 103: 'Extreme and recovery of time limits Art. 103. (1) At the request of the applicant, submitted before the expiry of the time limits under art. 96, para. Art. 1, art. 97, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 98, para. 5 before the Patent Office, these deadlines may be extended once for the same duration. The request shall not be considered where no State fee has been applied to it. (2) Time limits which are not complied with due to special unforeseen circumstances may be reimbursed once at the request of the person who has not complied with them. The request shall be accompanied by a document for a state fee paid if the payment is by bank transfer. (3) The request shall be lodged within one month of the suspension of the reason for non-compliance, but not later than three months after the expiry of the period. (4) The request shall state all the circumstances justifying it and shall provide all evidence of its merits. (5) The recovery decision shall be given by the President of the Patent Office or by a Vice-President appointed by him. (6) The time limits under para. 1 and 3 are non-refundable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u117	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 101 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 102; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 103. They voted 106 MPs: 91, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u118	................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 104 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 103. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 104: supposed to keep a secret Art. 104. The order of Art. 82 shall also apply to proceedings under this Chapter. ?? 105? Post of registration??????? 105?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u119	Are there any speeches? I shall put the following texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to reject art. 104 by importer and the Commission proposal to create a new art. 104 with text according to the Commission Report; plus the text of the importer for art. 105 supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 92, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u120	The Court of Justice's review of the Court of Justice's decision is in accordance Proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov in art. Paragraph 106. Four out. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106: ? Court of Justice's control???? Art. 106. (1) The decisions referred to in art. 100, para. 1, 4 and 5 may be appealed to the Administrative Court of the City of Sofia within two months of notification. (2) The decisions referred to in art. 101, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 102, para. 3 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of notification. (3) The President of the Patent Office shall be the party to the judicial proceedings in appeal of acts referred to in this Chapter. (4) In the event of annulment by court of decisions under para. 1 and 2 on the basis of the facts and evidence which the applicant could have known, pointed out and submitted in the proceedings before the Patent Office, no costs were assigned to the administrative authority. "Chapter 4" - International Registration. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. International registration of trademarks with the designation of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107, such as: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The International Registration of a mark with the designation of the Republic of Bulgaria is a registration carried out by the International Bureau under the Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Marks, of 14 April 1891, with its amendments and additions ratified by Decree No 4312 of 3 December 1984, hereinafter referred to as the Madrid Agreement on International Registration of Marks, of 27 June 1989, with its amendments and additions ratified by law (OJ 1989, p. 35 from 2001.) (hereinafter referred to as 2. In para. 13 after the word "supplied" is added to "state."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u121	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 106 by importer; the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four; the importer's text on the content of art. 107 with the amendments proposed by the Commission in para. 1; and the proposal for supplement in para. 13. They voted 103 MPs: 84, none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u122	screet registration of national brands................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108 as in para. 5 words The fees charged by the Patent Office shall be replaced by the fees referred to in art. 4, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' Registration of a designation of origin with an indication of the Republic of Bulgaria.............................................................................................. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109, as in para. 1 is amended as follows: The International Registration of a designation of origin with the designation of the Republic of Bulgaria is a registration carried out by the International Bureau under the Lisbon Agreement on the Protection of Designations of Origin and their International Registration of 31 October 1958, with its amendments and additions ratified by Decree No 523 of the State Council of 1975. (DV, No. 24, 1975.), hereinafter referred to as the "Lisbon Service." Registration of Bulgarian designations of origin.............................................................................................. - 110. - 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110, as in para. 4 the words The fees charged by the Patent Office shall be replaced by the fees referred to in art. 4, para. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u123	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 108 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission; the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 109 with the amendments proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer as art. 110 with the Commission's proposed replacement. They voted 101 MPs: 84, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u124	"Chapter 5" "Mark of the European Union." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Registration and action of the brand of the European Union.............................................................................................. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111. "Translation of a mark of the European Union into a national The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u125	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five, the text of the importer for the content of art. Art. 111, Art. 112, supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 87, none against, 20 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u126	"Chapter 6" "Protecting the Rights of Trademarks and Geographics". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. Section I "Civil legal protection and violations." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording for the name: In violation of the right of registered trade mark Art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113, as in para. 2, p. 4 the words "not' shall be replaced by "not'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u127	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Six, the version proposed by the Commission for the name "Civil legal protection against infringements" of Section I and the text of the importer supported by the Commission, for art. 113 with the Commission's proposals for replacement. They voted 112 MPs: 92, none, abstention 20. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u128	Art. 114................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114, as in para. 1 is amended as follows: The use of registered geographical indication in violation of the provision of art. 88, para. 2 constitutes an infringement. Law of the Court of Justice of the European Union OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115. screeves for The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116, as in para. 1 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The application for infringement of the rights under this law may be for: 1. establishing the fact of the infringement; 2. suspension of the infringement and/or prohibition of carrying out the activity which will constitute an infringement; 3. compensation for damages; 4. seizure and destruction of the objects subject to the infringement, including the means and materials for its execution. 2. In para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "contributed'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u129	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 114, with the amendments proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 115; the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 116 with the proposed editorial amendments and substitutions in the text of art. 116. They voted 112 MPs: 91, none, abstention 21. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u130	? Objection for real use.??................................................................................. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 117.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-27.u131	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 117. They voted 103 MPs: for 83, against none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. The next regular plenary session shall be held on 28 November 2019 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
