ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR POLITICAL PARTIES. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019, adopted at the first vote on 6 June 2019. Colleagues, just to inform you that parliamentary control will be immediately after this point with a question to the Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov, as at 11.00 he has a commitment. Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Kirilov will be right after this point. We're moving on to reading the report. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote for admission in the hall of Ms. Rositsa Velkova s Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Diana Dragneva, Director of the Legal Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 171 MPs: 165, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u4	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on Political Parties is being amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: 163, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u6	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Pencho Milkov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 1 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 and proposes the following amendments: ................................................................................... Article 25 is amended as follows: Art. 25. (1) State subsidy shall be granted to: 1. political parties, which in the last elections for MPs have received no less than one percent of the actual votes in the country and abroad, except for the votes under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6 of the Election Code; 2. The coalitions, which in the last elections for MPs received no less than 4 percent of the actual votes in the country and abroad, except for the votes under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6 of the Election Code. (2) The State subsidy granted to each coalition under para. 1, t. 2 is distributed among the parties included in the coalition's composition, according to a coalition agreement, and in the absence of one, is distributed in proportion to the number of MPs from the individual parties. § 2. Article 26 is amended as follows: Art. 26. (1) The annual amount of the state subsidy of any political party or coalition under art. 25, para. 1 shall be defined as the actual votes received by the party or coalition shall be multiplied by the amount of the State subsidy for one actual vote received. The amount of the state subsidy for one real vote received is determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Minister of Finance shall by order determine the documents which the parties and coalitions under art. 25, para. 1 must submit for the grant of the State subsidy, and the time limits for their submission. In the event of failure to submit any of the documents, in case of incompleteness or irregularities, the State subsidy shall not be translated into their submission, respectively removal. (3) The state subsidy shall be granted annually from the central budget of the parties under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1 and the parties included in the composition of the coalitions under art. 25, para. 1, t. 2, in four parts: until 30 April, by 30 June, by 30 September and by 20 December of the relevant year. The State subsidy shall be granted in equal parts, except in the cases referred to in art. 27. The Ministry of Finance shall transfer the State subsidy to a bank account referred to by the Party concerned by a sentence first. (4) In the event of a change of circumstance under para. 2 related to the granting of the State subsidy, the representatives of the party or coalition concerned shall notify the Ministry of Finance within 7 days of the change. (5) Within 7 days of the granting of the relevant part of the State subsidy, the Ministry of Finance shall publish on its website information on the subsidy granted by political parties. When parties are members of a coalition, the total amount granted to the coalition is also published. § 3. Article 27 is amended as follows: Art. 27. (1) The necessary costs for the state subsidy under art. 25 shall be planned under the central budget for the year concerned. The planned costs are indicative. (2) In the year of the production of elections for MPs, and where on the basis of an act it is necessary to recalculate the annual amount of the State subsidy for a certain period, art. 26 shall apply with the following exceptions: 1. the annual amount of the state subsidy for parties and coalitions is determined by the following formula: S = A x C x D / B, where: S is the annual amount of the State subsidy for the party or coalition concerned; A is the annual amount of the State subsidy for one actual vote received; C is the number of calendar days of the year; C is the number of days from 1 January of the year concerned until the day before the election day/day before the entry into force of the act including either the election day*/day of the entry into force of the act until the day before the next election day*/day before the entry into force of the act including or until 31 December of the year concerned; D is the number of actual votes received by the party or coalition concerned; * when producing more than one election for MPs in the relevant year; 2. the state subsidy under point 2. 1 shall be made available within the time limits laid down in Article 1. 26, para. 3 and, in case of objective inability, the next specified in art. 26, para. 3rd term. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 para. 1 is amended as follows: (1) The Central Election Commission shall provide the Ministry of Finance with the data under art. 25, para. Art. 1, art. 26, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u7	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u8	There is a proposal of the MP Nikolay Alexandrov: supposed to be at In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 a new para is created. 2: ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... During the election campaign, the Central Election Commission took over the costs of parties, coalitions and initiative committees that registered candidates in the form of debates, debates and other forms with a total duration of not less than 340 minutes. The time is divided equally between parties, coalitions and initiative committees. 2. The previous paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 become paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u9	Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. They voted 164 MPs: 22, against 52, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u10	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u11	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division of the Law. They voted 165 MPs: 163, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u12	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The annual state subsidy granted to political parties and coalitions for the period from 26 May 2016 until the entry into force of this law shall be re-evaluated according to Art. 26 and 27 from the Ministry of Finance. (2) The difference between the State subsidies granted for the period from 26 May 2016 until the entry into force of this law and the recalculated amount under para. 1 comes back from the political parties and from the parties from the composition of the respective coalitions that received them and is restored to the central budget. The funds to be returned by the parties from the coalition shall be determined according to the way in which state subsidies have been distributed between these parties when they are granted. (3) Within 7 days of the entry into force of this law, information shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance on the funds to be returned by political parties. When parties are members of a coalition, the total amount set to the coalition is also published. (4) To a political party, including from the composition of a coalition which receives a state subsidy and has not voluntarily returned the difference under para. 2 until the granting of the second part of the subsidy for 2019, a subsidy of: 1. seventy percent of the amount to be granted to it as part two of the 2019 subsidy; 2. fifty percent of the amount to be granted to it by each subsequent part of the subsidy within one year of the entry into force of this law. (5) In case of shortage of funds under para. 4 or the absence of further parts of the subsidy, the difference not returned by a political party, including a coalition, shall be returned by 31 December 2020. (6) A political party, including from the composition of a coalition which does not receive a state subsidy, returns the difference under para. 2 until 31 December 2020 (7) After the expiry of the time limits under para. 5 and 6 non-refundable funds shall be collected in accordance with the general order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u13	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, my speech is in connection with § 5, para. 4 t. 1 and 2. There it is written that 70 percent of the amount to be granted to it as part two of the 2019 subsidy and 50 percent if, in the previous paragraph, the party has not repaid its debts, the difference of the subsidy granted to it. I think that this should not be a punishment for these parties to be reduced to the subsidy, and the difference from this reduced subsidy to 100% the first time 70%, then 50, should go into practice to cover the subsidy given. Because we are thus putting at a very difficult and disadvantageous position those parties who have already received a subsidy over BGN 11, i.e. 13 and something, then if they do not return this subsidy, it is not known whether they have such an opportunity, especially those who are not in parliament or who are no longer in coalition. At the same time, we sanction them by 70 percent, 50 percent. Let the penalty of 70 and 50 percent remain, but the difference of these 30, respectively 50% to go to cover the given subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Popov, should we consider this an editorial amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u17	Would you like to provide a text? This can't just be an Adhok made an editorial amendment. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 2 which shall become § 5. They voted 165 MPs: 110, against 3, abstention 52. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u18	The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Until the presentation of an up-to-date coalition agreement on the allocation of the state subsidy among the parties from the composition of a coalition under art. 25, para. 1, t. 2 The Ministry of Finance shall grant the State subsidy to the parties from the composition of the respective coalition, according to its submission until the entry into force of this law, a coalition agreement on the allocation of the state subsidy, such as the amounts specified therein, shall be reduced proportionately to the new amount of the state subsidy under art. 26, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u19	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text according to the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 3, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 7. Vote 161 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 7 to 13 June 2019: There has been a question by the MP Krum Zarkov to Tomislav Donchev about the economic model operating in Bulgaria and the need for its change. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 June 2019. Written answers from: - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two issues from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Georgi Andreyev and Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Andreev. We begin with a question to the Minister of Justice Mr. Daniel Kirilov. He will answer the question from MP Krum Zarkov on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. Here you are, dear Mr. Zarkov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as early as October 2016, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker assured in a letter the Prime Minister that he was planning to conclude the Monitoring and Verification Mechanism by the end of the current European Commission's mandate. The Commission's latest report came out on 13 November 2018 and contained findings that led us to believe that this mechanism was really ending. The statement I am talking about is as follows: the.... will continue to monitor and monitor progress closely and intends to re-evaluate the progress made before the end of its current mandate. The Commission expects that the monitoring process for cooperation and verification for Bulgaria will be completed with this. That is why quite surprisingly sounded the words of the Commissioner for Justice Mrs. Vera Jorova, who announced back an opinion in April this year! According to her, this process cannot be completed in this committee. Moreover, the trend, according to her, is not so satisfactory that we can clearly state that the Mechanism can stop. In this regard, please inform us: what actions did the Ministry of Justice take after Mrs. Joorova's statement on the final implementation of the recommendations made and what are your views on the future application of the Cooperation Mechanism to the Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, in the last report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism published in November last year, Bulgaria has found that in terms of indicators related to the independence of the judiciary, the legal framework and organised crime, Bulgaria has met the requirements. In relation to the indicators concerning the continuation of judicial reform, the fight against high-level corruption, local and border corruption, the Commission considers that significant progress has been made and the recommendations are close to implementation. The government continues irreversibly and at an accelerated pace to fulfil its obligations related to the performance of the ICO (International Assessment Standards) by maintaining active communication with the European Commission. A high, positive assessment has been given with regard to the work of the government, the National Assembly and directly involved institutions in the following areas: - on the preparation of the overall legal framework for countering corruption in the high levels of power, as well as the accompanying actions with regard to legislation and on the smooth merger of individual structures in the new committee, and the conduct of a transparent procedure for the selection of leadership; - preparation of changes in the PPC and the NKK in order to improve the fight against organised crime and corruption; - in the established practice of the government regarding the publication of regular reports on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform by the Ministry of Justice; - the key role of the Supreme Judicial Council in protecting the independence of the judiciary and the standards adopted in this regard; - on the actions of the Prosecutor's Office to optimize the district structures; - the measures taken to regulate the workload of the large courts, which are already effective. The main role of the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council is appreciated as the main forum for comprehensive monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. The realized amendments to the Administration Act aimed at strengthening the role of inspectors in the public administration and preventing corruption practices in the field of public procurement were also highly appreciated. During the past week in Luxembourg, a Council of Justice and Home Affairs took place. I had the opportunity to hold a meeting with the Commissioner for Justice, Consumer and Gender Equality Mrs. Vera Joorova in the Justice, Consumer and Gender Equality section. In the course of our conversation was noted the excellent cooperation and active role of Bulgaria in the current files. I confirmed the government's firm commitment to implementation within a short period of the remaining measures and recommendations from the Mechanism and introduced the Commissioner to the current legislative proposals relating to the responsibility of the three top executives in the judiciary. Commissioner Joorova, for her part, stated readiness to provide expert support if necessary by the Commission in the process of implementing the recommendations under the Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your reply, Mr. Minister, in which you have stated your firm commitment, but it is not evident from it. If this is how you respond to the European Commission, this mechanism will never fall, for the simple reason that you lack sincerity in your response. You've been explaining to us about measures that we've been repeating for years and turning around in the same place, and avoiding putting honestly and frankly to be resolved, those issues that have been put in the Mechanism. It is good that you say which recommendations have been implemented and where there is progress, but you have to say basically where there is none to fill this hole. I'll give you just a few examples. The unpredictability of the legislative process, which is noted in this mechanism and under which no progress is observed, you defend fiercely against your criticism as former President of the Legal Commission, whether they come from the opposition or from another place, but it is time not to defend your former post, but to enter the new one, because as Minister of Justice you can channel this process, you can make it better and you can make better use of it all, including our National Assembly institution. Another example. In the report is noted about the difficult election of the President of the Sofia City Court, you know, and there are problems, the Judicial card, which is referred to in the reports of the SJC and which we have steps forward, but changing the procedural rules. There's a lot more to be done. Next example. The report noted that the interest of the European Commission is expected from the external review of the functioning of the new system for prior verification of procurement procedures. This review should have, and has been done, with the assistance of the World Bank. What are the results of it? What's next? What projects are involved? All this is being worked on, but you should be making it public to the MPs, experts from the European Commission, not constantly burying our head in the sand. It's accounted for, and you're reporting the work of the National Anti-Corruption Council. To tell you the truth, I am not sure that this national council has worked very hard, but after you have praised it, why did the Council of Ministers then announce just a few days ago a public consultation decree establishing a new Council that will again coordinate cooperation between these authorities in this area and which actually overlaps both the credentials and the composition of the previous one? There is no constant need for us to set new conditions for ourselves, to create and shut down organs just to imitate some activity! It will be much more useful for everyone to put the questions that come out of the Mechanism, to clearly answer them, so that it can switch not only at the will of this or that committee, but because Bulgaria is actually advanced and that will help its citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u26	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Zarkov, honourable Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for bringing this issue up, because it is indeed extremely relevant. I think it was placed at the right time. We are going to have serious actions, steps in which, if possible, I call on us to achieve synergies and principle in favour of the state, in favour of Bulgaria, in favour of Bulgarian law! I won't be able to answer all the questions you've asked in a short time. I'll start backwards. Today, at 11.00 hours, the long discussed and presented proposals for changes in the status of the so-called three large in terms of their responsibility will be presented to the two working groups that worked and completed work at the Ministry of Justice. The broadcast will be directly streaming on the website of the Ministry of Justice, so I invite all interested parties to join and familiarize themselves, including fellow lawyers from the Parliament.. are always invited in every single format that discusses bills in the Ministry of Justice. The National Anti-Corruption Council and the New Council. I stress that this is the body that would inherit the current Judicial Reform Council if the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism was dropped, that is, if Bulgaria entered into the common regime, which is to establish and protect the rule of law in the Member States. That's the projection. We give the vision what will happen if our goal of dropping the Mechanism is realized. This way look, decipher the presentation of this council. Yes, it contains almost the same authorities and institutions. All those we have worked so far to achieve and implement the recommendations under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism should continue to comply with them and accordingly carry out the tasks under this mechanism. The unpredictability of the legislative process. I would like to remind you that this is not an expression from the last Report on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. On the contrary, this is an expression from the pre-, the last report on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. This finding is no longer relevant. It is not relevant with the claim and adoption of the team that has prepared the last report, that the legal framework is in line with the requirements and that in legislative terms we have achieved the objectives. I mean, all of us, both you and us, and all the institutions that participated in the legislative process. I'm sure you're a conscientious colleague. I believe that you will continue to work wholeheartedly and in good faith to improve the Bulgarian legislation, which has not been since yesterday. With each step we are obliged to improve this quality. I will not have time to comment on the procedure for selecting the Chairman of the GCC.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u27	We're officially out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u28	It's long gone. I'll remain available to complete this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u29	Allow me to thank Mr. Daniel Kirilov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev about the incident with victims of children from Silistra at an event organized by the police and by the municipality of Silistra on 31 May 2019. Please, Mr. Mirchev, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u30	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question, as the presiding said, is related to an incident with victims of children from Silistra at an event organised by the police and the municipality of Silistra on 31 May 2019. I will start with an opinion expressed by psychologists dealing with children's problems: The demonstration of catching a criminal is definitely not suitable for kindergarten children. She could show herself to high school students, but not to such young children. During this demonstration, there are vivid scenes of violent blows of heads, of a fallen man, a dog attacking another. For children of low age, it is definitely a long way away that they can properly perceive what the police show them. Moreover, the effect can be reversed. Not to be surprised if tomorrow we hear about the same scenes that are literally repeated in children's games where violence is exercised on another child placed in the role of a criminal! Many children may experience negative emotions to the extent that they fall into negative mental conditions. We're talking about the age of children here. Why is such training even allowed to introduce myself to such small children? In connection with the incident with children in the town of Silistra, which we are talking about on 31 May 2019 at the event "Vacation, hello! Let's play safe!............................. by the police and the municipality of Silistra.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u32	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Mirchev, Dear Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Allow me, at the beginning, once again, from this tribune to offer my apologies to both the institution I represent and the children and their parents for the trouble they have caused. Regarding your question about the assessment of the professional preparation of police officers, I provide you with the following information: The order of checks to assess the professional preparation of the staff held under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act is regulated in Ordinance No 81-21-433 of 16 March 2017. The annual examination of the level of professional training shall be carried out no later than October of the current year, providing for additional dates for employees who have been prevented from appearing on pre-defined dates. The checks shall be carried out by committees designated by order of the head of the relevant structure by the Ministry of Interior. The annual examination of the specialised training shall be carried out by means of a written test in the direction of activity. The test was developed by the trainers and approved by the Head of the relevant structure of the Ministry of Interior. Within 10 December of the current year, the heads of the Ministry of Interior's structures shall validate a report on vocational training in the type of training. As for the particular case in Silistra, I provide you with the following information: On 30 May 2019 the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of Silistra issued Order No 342z 483, which ordered the following day that a demonstration of the special tactical unit for rapid action should be held in the area of the old stadium in Silistra. A plan has been prepared to conduct the demonstration. These documents define the organisation, type of equipment and armaments to be used. According to the order and the plan in the demonstration it is intended to use only the so-called blank ammunition aids and light-sound devices with a distraction effect. The same are regulated as such in the provisions of art. 85, para. 3 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior and Ordinance No 8121 of 14 March 2017. These aids are not toxic and are not intended for the application of trauma to persons against whom they are used. Immediately after the incident, I ordered a verification of all the circumstances and facts regarding the order issued and compliance with the instructions given for carrying out the demonstration. By my order, disciplinary proceedings have been initiated under art. 207, para. 1, t. 1 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior against the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. In such proceedings, the latter shall be removed from office in order to carry out the verification objectively. The aim of the measures taken in a timely manner is to establish all the facts and details of the work of police officers involved in the organisation and conduct of the event. At the end of the verification and depending on its results, the guilty employees will bear their disciplinary responsibility. The District Prosecutor's Office is informed immediately of the case. An investigation has been initiated to seek possible criminal liability for damages. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that by my order of 31 May 2019 the use of explosives and pyrotechnic articles during public demonstrations is prohibited to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next up is a line. You have the floor, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u34	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Thanks for the answer, but he's rather describing events than showing any conclusions drawn from this whole situation. The only sedative in the whole story is that the teacher Mrs. Ivanova saved one of the children by pulling him out of the flames. Everything else in this story is ridiculous and I'll tell you why. The very fact that there are three injured children, one of which is severe, shows that no adequate measures have been taken to protect the lives and health of these kindergarten children. I personally have an order from the Silistra Police Director, which explicitly states that you also have this order, that, for the purpose of this event, I will quote: We need to see who allowed these grenades to be used at all. My questions here are: why does your office allow this type of initiative in front of these children at all? Will you stop this type of initiative in front of such children? It can be considered for children who graduate from school, but for children from kindergarten really this type of event is completely ridiculous. The second thing I want to ask you is: is there an opinion reached to you, not immediately from the event itself, but from a few months before that these grenades themselves are unfit and must be scrapped? And why, if there is such an opinion, have they not been scrapped at this time at the event? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Minister Marinov, come in for the back and supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u36	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I will add, naturally, without it sounding like any excuse, I really do not think that this type of demonstration is suitable for children from kindergarten, but overall the event, the initiative is aimed at children from fifth to seventh grade who have been invited. Subsequently, at the request of the municipality and the principal, these children are included, but I really, again say, and I do not approve that such children are being given this type of demonstration. That is why I have forbidden this initiative to continue. With regard to these opinions, I will check and reply in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u37	Thank you. We are continuing with a question from the MP Mihail Hristov concerning the frequent attacks with a cool weapon by minors. Here you go, Mr. Christov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in recent years the attacks have increased with the so-called cold weapon, which includes boxing, batons, stars and knives with blades over 6 cm. The problem is that these attacks were carried out by minors. My question to you is: what is the number of such incidents for 2018 and 2019? What measures does the Ministry of Interior take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u40	Dear President, Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The central police statistics shall collect and process data on crimes of a general nature systematised in uniform form using uniform criteria and indicators consistent with the Criminal Code. In 2017, there were a total of 33 crimes committed with a cool weapon by minors, four of them being crimes against the person falling under art. Art. 115. 161 of the penal code. In 2018, there were 22 such crimes committed with a cool weapon by minors, again four against the individual. For 2019, the Ministry of Interior has statistics by the end of May. Compared to the same period of 2018 they are as follows: 12 such crimes committed in 2019 by the end of May, of which two against the person and 15 crimes committed by minors with a cool weapon for 2018 by the end of May, of which four against the person. As seen from the statistics so provided, the number of attacks carried out by minors has no increase, and we can say that there is also a slight reduction. In the case of specific acts related to violence, the relevant norms of the Bulgarian legislation apply. In accordance with art. 6, para. 1, t. 8 of the Ministry of Interior Act one of the main activities of the employees of the Ministry of Interior is prevention. The actions taken by the Ministry of Interior is to ensure the presence of police officers at certain hours of the day mainly around educational institutions, Internet halls, clubs and places visited by minors. The uniform arrangements for the work of police patrols at the respective locality shall take into account the above-mentioned places and the daily briefings prior to the start of the work shifts shall be tasked with enhancing the attention of police officers in these areas. In addition to the structures of the Ministry of Interior, checks are carried out in drinking and entertainment establishments to comply with the Child Protection Act. Under the National Program, the work of the police in the schools has topics concerning the rights and obligations of minors, the consequences of crimes and responsible behaviour in society. Inspectors from children's pedagogical rooms give lectures and lectures in schools on pre-designed schedules and programs. They also carry out individual secondary prevention against children who have committed or are prone to commit an antisocial event or crime. The Ministry of Interior shall conduct a rapid and timely exchange of information on such cases with the employees of the institutions concerned with child protection. These are the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Social Assistance, the State Agency for the Protection of the Child and Municipal Commissions for Counteracting and Fighting the Acts of Minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Christov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I asked this question for a reason because, in fact, in Bulgaria, the possession and carrying of cold weapons in public places is not punishable, although some law enforcement officials say that, but the situation does not sit like that in most of the European countries in which it is forbidden to carry cold weapons in public places, because there is generally no logic for a person to walk around with a knife in the street for protection purposes. In this case, we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will take a legislative initiative to change this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Allow me to thank Mr. Mladen Marinov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Before we proceed to the answers from Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, allow me to read the following message. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question by the National Representative Diana Savateva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to fourteen questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, two questions; Georgi Gokov, eleven questions; and Stefan Burgeev, one question. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the MP Stefan Burgeev to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov is postponed. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva will not participate. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the lack of the country. We continue with the answers to the questions to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer first of all a question from MP Tanya Petrova on a partnership between universities and regions in the implementation of regional development plans. Here you are, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u44	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! My question relates precisely to the partnership between universities and regions in implementing regional development plans. Dear Mr. Valchev, how can the system of higher education be used for the development of the regions, looking for balances in the different professional directions? Is a change in the model of closed academic self-management of higher education institutions to allow partnership in the strategic management of the system between state and higher schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, the network of state universities is designed to be national. Students are adults, can travel and live elsewhere. Not in any city where there is a need for specialists, therefore there should be higher schools. If the network of primary and primary schools is municipal, the network of professional high schools with regional, small part of national importance, then the network of higher schools is mostly of national importance. This does not mean that higher schools do not matter for the development of the regions. On the contrary, they have and should have an increasing importance for the development of the regions. This importance should not be seen as so and only as an opportunity to keep young people in the city concerned. You will now see in many of the municipal development strategies intentions for the establishment of higher schools or of a subsidiary in order to keep young people. The importance of higher schools for the development of regions is much more complex, and it is for the overall educational and technological development. It is related to the intelligent specialization of the regions, it is related to the participation of higher schools in all initiatives for the development of the regions. If a foreign investor wants to make a big investment or make a start-up company, one of the first main questions is how higher schools will participate, whether they are in the respective city or the nearest higher schools. In this sense, it is very important for the development of the regions precisely this participation of higher schools. We have professional directions in which we can say to a greater extent that we have satisfied the network in order to ensure that all regions with the relevant personnel are secured. There, for example, we have a large number of centers where vocational training is carried out. With the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which is currently for public discussion and has not yet been voted by the Council of Ministers and proposed to the National Assembly, we propose several mechanisms in relation to what you say. One is the National Map of Higher Education. This map aims to identify the profile and territorial structure of higher education. We also have professional directions in which the network has reached its limit of saturation, of fragmentation, and we have other professional directions that can be found related to the specialization of the regions. You know, in Kazanlak, for example, how much concentration of technology enterprises is there, but there was no university there. The nearest technical school was in Sliven or in Gabrovo, but in Kazanlak itself was an open branch and this prevailed in the case of the relationship with the region's economy, the needs of the region. In order for higher schools to participate in all initiatives for the development of intelligent specialization of the regions, they must be more connected, more active, more open to partnership, what you said. The fact is that we have a certain problem with the current model of academic self-government, which is the ultimate form of closed model of academic self-government. We can't assign them to higher schools, we can't assign them to perform public tasks. The only public task that we can assign them is the training of students in certain professional directions through a reception plan, but in general the state has limited opportunities to assign to state universities the performance of public tasks, the inclusion in certain initiatives and so on. We are trying to change this with the possibility that the state through the Ministry of Education and Science has the right to assign a certain number of strategic objectives and tasks to higher schools, thus the idea is not to interfere with financial, administrative or purely academic governance, but to be partners in the strategic management of higher schools. Higher schools should be encouraged to participate in start-up campaigns, should be encouraged to participate in different technological parks so as to ensure development in line with intelligent specialization. We also foresee the participation of municipalities in the academic self-government bodies in the Board of Governors, and through it also with the right to a consultative voice in the Academic Council of the Higher School, so that we can stimulate the partnership to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor for a line again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u48	I want to thank Mr. Valchev for his answer. The question I have asked and the answer received is the beginning of the debate related to the amendments to the Higher Education Act. Currently it is located on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, it is proposed for public discussion and many higher education institutions are currently doing this, and they can present their proposals by 28 June. It is good what is written there and what you in your speech have deepened, namely the creation of a National University Card, because this issue is related precisely to the development of the regions, of course, and to the understanding that not every region can have a higher education institution. And how the region will use the potential of close and nationally significant higher education institutions is something that the Ministry in the future can thoroughly analyse and offer. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u50	Thank you. Just a few additions to what you said. Due to the limited opportunity to provoke higher schools to participate in initiatives that are useful for the development of society and the relevant regions, we will propose a regulatory basis in the Higher Education Act for the financing of national programmes in the higher education system. That's what we have in the school education system. The aim is not to finance as many specific activities as to provoke higher schools to develop certain policies and to participate in certain initiatives. For this, of course, funds can also be used by the European Union, but the aim of the changes being proposed is not to change the model of academic self-government, but to a greater extent to be able to rely on higher schools and to entrust them with the performance of tasks important for the development of society, rather than to be self-sufficient, closed and the basic policy to be to keep the status quo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the results of the national external evaluation of the fourth grade on the territory of Shumen district. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I am asking the present question, because by law... on the basis of art. 251, you have the commitment to exercise control over the activities of all institutions in the system of pre-school and pre-school education, and you should be aware of what is happening at this initial level of education. I have also made my reference, checking for the results from both this year and last year, but still please answer me from the tribune at what level are the results of the national external evaluation for the fourth grade conducted in May 2019 on the territory of Shumen district? What is the responsibility of the Regional Management of Education, Shumen, for the results achieved this year? Where do you think the level of knowledge of the students from Shumen District in the fourth grade, which this year appeared on this national external evaluation, compared to everyone else in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on the national external evaluation of students from the fourth grade, held at the end of the academic year 2018 - 2019, the region of Shumen ranked 26th position with an average score of 72.92 points. This result, while stacking the Shumen district in the last three-point success rate of the regions, is only 5.9 points lower than the national average score. The comparison of the regional charts over the last two years shows the movement of the Shumen region with one position ahead, as it took its last place in the previous year. The results of the fourth graders in general are indicative of the state educational requirements of the educational content achieved at the initial stage of primary education: according to the Bulgarian language and literature and 72.82%, according to the Mathematics. In the region of Shumen, despite moving forward in the ranking, weaker results are reported: We don't have to mechanically compare the results, because they're only output indicators. What is set out in the Preschool and School Education Act is to do the so-called evaluation of progress. However, it is very difficult to do. This assessment should also take into account the input level. However, when we talk about the initial stage, it is very difficult to take into account the entry level and what are the characteristics of the students who are entering. It is one thing to teach here there is no connection with Shumen district, I will give you two extreme examples: the school to accept children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian, they did not attend kindergarten, teach them to read, write, respect teachers, go to school regularly. Although this school may have low educational results, it has made a kind of hero in relation to these children. On the other hand, there are schools that accept children whose parents are responsible for their education. From two, three-year-olds send them to classes, learn English, buy them enough books, provide them with training in every way. This school may not have made enough effort, but it may have had very good results at the exit after fourth grade, so these contextual characteristics are important. We've been working on the model for a year and a half to take into account all contextual characteristics, and at school level, for the relevant kids, but it's very difficult to get out. Why? Because, on the one hand, it has to be based on complete, accurate, verifiable information. On the other hand, our results of external evaluation must be such that they have a normal distribution that is a statistical term to ensure that we can produce such an assessment of added value. Unfortunately, in the previous years, we did not have such a distribution of results and we cannot do for an initial stage such an assessment of added value. We'll probably add one of those for a junior high stage. As far as the Shumen region is concerned, each area must make maximum efforts to improve the results. There are many policies, factors, instruments that improve these results, but the main ones are several. First, regarding children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian. The most important thing is to cover them in kindergarten. Those who are covered in kindergarten have much better results, much easier the school manages to compensate for the deficits because the kindergarten has done its job. Second, perhaps the most important factor is the factor of the teacher. If we have good teachers, we will also have good educational results and not only good but also motivated teachers not only in the big cities, but also in the smallest remote settlements not only in Shumen, but also in Nikola Koslevo there should be good teachers. This is also what politics is aimed at. The third, perhaps the most important factor, is to give maximum support to each child. Maximum support means more work with each child, means further training to overcome educational difficulties. This is what we have organized in the education system in kindergartens and schools, and we finance such additional training, but it is a prerequisite for the child, first, to be recorded, second, to go to school regularly. We have areas in which we have a large percentage of children, which we define as risky and who do not attend regular school, so the work on the mechanism is focused on the joint work of the institutions is no longer so much the initial subscription as the provision of daily attendance. Otherwise the support measures in the system are many, but, again, the main work must be done by the teacher. It is multi-hour, multi-day, multi-annual and cannot be seen for one or two years. Usually the results are a projection of the accumulation of pedagogical efforts for many years. When we talk about fourth grade, six years is mandatory training up to 4th grade: four years of school plus two years of preschool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's an opportunity for a line on moving one place forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna have to ask you to give me a little more time out of this by the book. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Thank you for your honesty. To put it mildly, I'm shocked that we have ascending gradation from the pre-last place to the pre-last place. Maybe we'll get into the front lines, maybe in the middle of the next decade at the rate the students are preparing in the Shumen region. Unfortunately, this is a trend that has been required in recent years. It is no accident that I started my question with your commitments under the Law on School and Preschool Education, where you have the obligation to exercise control over the activities of all institutions in the system of school and preschool education. Personally speaking, both over the years and in this term, when you are a minister, we have talked several times in the stands and have raised the issue of the problems of the education system of Shumen region and I do not see anything happening in this direction. I don't know why you didn't answer the second part of the question: what is the responsibility of the Regional Management of Education, Shumen, for the results achieved, and it is obvious. I can tell you from now on, and you know very well, Mr. Minister, that the Regional Management of Education has turned education on the territory of Shumen district into a built oligarchic-political model. You know that under the School and Preschool Education Act, mostly the directors of municipal schools are appointed by the Director of Regional Education Management. We've been talking here about RIO's personnel policy, Shumen. You paid attention to some of the municipalities, you said Nikola Kozlevo for example. There is a typical example of how a party is joined with the educational model, how students are sinking because one conducts its own, personal and corporate policy on the back of students and their parents. Why is this thing happening in all the municipalities in the municipality of Shumen? Again, I ask you, answer me: what is the commitment and what responsibility will the Director of RIO take because he is also legally obliged to provide methodological support and appoint the directors? All that is happening is the result of an incompetence that is initially bet on with the directors and with the entire pedagogical staff that they appoint after themselves and everything that this leads to. Everything is conducted in one direction because there are employed political persons who are loyal to the relevant Director, who is loyal to the relevant Director of the RVO, who is loyal to the respective mayor of the municipality and above. Not to give a heavier qualification to what is happening in the education system in Shumen. Next year I will not be surprised if the fourth graders are already in the last place, because you say that very difficult by different criteria can be determined who belongs in the fourth grade and how it will develop further. These children enter the educational system already of secondary education from now on, they will contribute to the results on the territory of Shumen district in the following stages in the seventh grade of external evaluation and then at the end of secondary education. This is a murder of the preparation of the children for the coming years because Shumen District is ranked 10th in number of population in the country and finds itself at the last place in the educational value of these children. I also looked at the results of those who had graduated from secondary school, but they went through an earlier stage when these processes were not so prominent in the field of education. Here is my appeal to you to take on your role as Minister, to fulfill your commitments by law, to do the necessary checks and to impose the necessary sanctions, including, if necessary, release the guilty persons for these results, because this thing will be automatically transferred. And do not draw conclusions here that because one was speaking one language, the other was speaking another language. I apologize very much, but Shumen District is in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and is not located in any other country on the Balkan Peninsula, with an apology. It is the commitment of your Ministry and your employees to improve the quality of education in certain areas, and it is your personal commitment. I have an appeal to you, Mr. Minister, to make sure that this is not repeated next year and that we do not read here again that we have passed before last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u58	I tried to tell you that there is a very clear characteristic, maybe I didn't say it clearly enough. There is a very clear correlation between contextual characteristics and educational results. These educational results aren't of one, they're not of three, they're not five years old. If you look at the introduction of the National External Assessment more than 10 years ago, these results were similar. We have a very clear relationship between the percentage of children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian in the relevant area and the level of average educational results. This does not mean that the educational system has not made efforts to compensate for this deficit, has not made efforts to teach them in Bulgarian, to... [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]] If we say that she has not made an effort, it means that we insult all teachers in the field. Whether there are any political factors, I am not inclined as you to exaggerate their importance. What I'm about to tell you: give me a specific signal. We have responded to every single signal, every single area, although the control capacity of the Ministry's Central Government, not regional governments, is limited, we cannot carry out ubiquitous, total control. I'm ready at any given signal to make sudden controls without any information in the regional government. That is what I can commit to you, that is what we are doing, and I assure you that we have not compromised with heads of regional governments, with directors when we have found non-visibility when we have found a lack of sufficient effort in one or another activity. We cannot make a direct connection between Shumen being in the pre-last place and the work of regional government. Thank you. [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Anton Kutev concerning the National Program "Work of Police in the Schools." Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I just had the opportunity to ask your colleague the same question, but since you were not in the Chamber, I will allow myself to start with an opinion of psychologists dealing with children. I will repeat what I said to your colleague, the Minister of the Interior. The demonstration of catching a criminal is definitely not suitable for children in kindergartens. She could show herself to students in the upper classes, but not to such young children. In the reply it became clear that in order to be so small children at the particular event, the municipality was responsible for this. During this demonstration there are vivid scenes of violence, head-banging of a fallen man, a dog attacking another, shots fired. For children of low age, it is definitely a long way away for them to accept what the police show them right. Here the effect in these young children can be reversed, including the same type of violence they carry out among themselves at school. In connection with the incident of victims of children from Silistra on 31 May 2019 at the holiday event, hello! Let's play safe!.. An initiative of the National Program The work of the police in the schools, organized by the police and, again, I say, by the municipality of Silistra and a demonstration of the capture of a criminal, our question with my colleague Kutev is: how do you assess the educational impact of the event in question, given the things I told you about the age of these children and the aggressive nature of this event? How and who in the Ministry of Education is responsible and taking responsibility for the accidents? Since the responsibility is not only for the Ministry of Interior and for ensuring safety, there is also a role in the responsibility of your Ministry, as you are also part of the authorities that have allowed such an event at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Dear Minister Valchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u62	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mirchev! Minister Marinov gave detailed information at the beginning of parliamentary control on the topic. You know that the National Program is the Ministry of Interior and the main idea is preventive. It is possible to repeat some of the things you have already heard. As you know, the organizers of the event were the Municipality of Silistra, the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Commission to combat the anti-social manifestations of minors. The Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the Regional Management of Education, did not participate in the event or organize it. The event does not appear in the information about activities of the persons and students during the summer vacation on the website of the Ministry. This year they were first invited to attend kindergartens. In the popular posters in the gardens it was mentioned that it was about organizing quizzes, racing games and a demonstration of catching a criminal. The children were taken from kindergarten to the stadium with informed consent of the parents, who were accompanied by teachers by groups, assistant educators, nurse of the garden and part of the parents. On the day of the incident with the children from kindergarten who attended the event, she started working with the kindergarten psychologist. A parent-teacher conference was also organized to seek parental assistance. With regard to the specific questions raised, my opinion is that the participation of children in this event was not appropriate from the point of view of the educational effect that you mentioned. It wasn't consistent with the age of children. We, on the one hand, want to expand the educational environment of children and students, they must participate in more events, visit more institutions, have the opportunity to get acquainted with the work of more professions. On the other hand, the principle of caution must be the leading one. We have also had the debate that we need to ease the administrative burden. Any removal from the school or kindergarten in the city does not require mandatory coordination with regional governments. This has not been required in this case and no coordination has been made with the Regional Government in this particular direction to alleviate the administrative burden. On the other hand, it is again the principle of caution, which, if more institutions agree, there is a slightly greater chance that it will prevail. After all, parents are the most responsible. The parents gave the consent, obviously there was also no accurate information in the case. I can't hold the regional government responsible because it wasn't involved, and the mayor can't hold him responsible either. The director of kindergarten has made the decision, along with the municipality, to remove the children. The principals of kindergartens are involved with the municipality. The bottom line is that people in the system sometimes tend to ignore the principle of caution. This is the conclusion, and therefore the actions we will take are to instruct regional governments to pay attention once again to schools and kindergartens and to coordinate school outings. The Director of kindergarten concerned shall be given specific instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u63	That was Minister Valchev's answer. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u64	Dear Minister, I understand that you do not agree with such small children to make such demonstrations. I accept your opinion. I do not want the burden to fall on the director of kindergarten for the simple reason that in this event the main burden in his organization on the part of the school system has the municipality and its deputy mayor who is responsible for this topic. However, as participating children, kindergarten students or school students, this directly connects your Ministry for the simple reason that the control of the activities in the system of preschool and school education, as recorded in the Law, falls to you and to your Ministry. Here I'd like to open a clamp for the deputy mayor who's in charge of these matters. Take it as a reference to you. It's more of a moral moment, but I think you can also take a direct approach to the matter. She won a competition for school director the summer of last year and at the end of the year went on unpaid leave and returned as deputy mayor in the municipality. At the moment, this place of a school principal is being run by a deputy, which I think is not morally appropriate for you to keep a job, to go back to your old one, and when you finish your term as deputy mayor, to come back as a director. I think you can take a direct attitude as you see what chaos and what problem it created with its actions as responsible for education. However, I would also like to ask two further questions: did you think that this event strengthened the trust of children, students and parents in the institutions of both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education? What are the requirements of the Ministry of Interior for work among children and students, and how is this interaction controlled by the Ministry of Education? Thank you. Again, accept this for the leave I said to the deputy mayor, by referring to you, to look at this issue and at least from a moral point of view react if you cannot from a legal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u66	Thank you. A large number of extracurricular and extracurricular activities, interest activities are held in the education system. Yes, perhaps some of them support us, but the majority are aimed at expanding the educational environment of children and students, the development of their abilities and interests, and they should not be ignored because of an accident. What are the requirements of the Ministry of Education? These are all requirements that are for the organization of the learning process and for working with children and students in the course of the study plan, either in activities of interest or in extracurricular activities. It is the responsibility of all officials in this case. Once again, there is no person responsible in this case who is in a relationship with the Ministry. We can exercise control over kindergartens, but we cannot take responsibility for the director of kindergarten. As far as the deputy mayor of education is concerned, I accept that information you gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-14.u67	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mr. Krasimir Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. That's what we've done with our weekly program. The next regular meeting shall be on 19 June 2019. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
