ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, a few days ago our dear colleague and friend Mrs. Snezana Dukova left us. We will remember her with her humanity, with the professionalism of her work as a teacher and educator, with the energy and dedication she put into her work as a MP in four parliaments. Bow to her memory! Please, with one minute's silence, honor her memory. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. Honourable Members, I will present to you a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period 10 July 2019, with the agreement that at the Conference of Presidents yesterday I made a commitment to Mr. Stoynev Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and to include additional points: Draft of a decision to elect Vice-President of the National Assembly and draft decisions for changes in permanent committees and delegations of the National Assembly. I will now read to you the entire Programme.. These points were adopted at the Chairman's Council. Program for the work of the National Assembly 10 "1." New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 June 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 149 of 24 June 2019 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers sandar Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2019 3. Draft decision to elect Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers. "Kornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoynev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov on 10 July 2019. 4. Draft decisions on amendments to permanent committees and delegations of the National Assembly. Importers. "Kornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoynev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov on 10 July 2019. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2019. Adopted in the first vote on 27 June 2019. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. They are: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 13 March 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 11 July 2019 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. The importer is Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 11 July 2019 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act (General draft prepared by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 6 June 2019 with importers: Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019; Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019; Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019. Point 3 for Thursday, 11 July 2019 9. First vote on the Bill amending the Election Code. They are: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 12 July 2019 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Rail Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2019. "2nd" point for Friday, 12 July The Commission 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the draft programme so presented. Vote 204 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a proposal from Dragomir Stoynev is submitted by the Vice-President of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that on behalf of the Parliamentary Group be included as a point in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly Draft for amendment and supplement of the Family Aid Act for Children, No 954-01-40, submitted on 13 June 2019 by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The proposal is inadmissible as non-compliance with the requirements of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, since there has been no report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on which it has been allocated. Neither has the two-month term under art. 78, para. 3 of the Rules in which it must examine the Bill and submit a report. The proposal should therefore not be put to the vote. We'll continue with the messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 3 July 2019 to 9 July 2019: A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer is the Council of Ministers, leading the Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; the Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications; the Committee for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. The importer is Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Proposal for discussion on questions No 954-05-26 of 26 June 2019 by the MPs Assoc.Professor Georgi Yordanov, Professor Georgi Mihailov, Professor Anelia Klisarova, Dr. Ilian Timchev, Dr. Valentina Naydenova, Dr. Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, on the policy of the Ministry of Health with regard to personnel security with medical specialists. Importer Georgi Yordanov and group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; the Committee on Foreign Policy; the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport; the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. And the last draft bill tabled is a draft amendment to the Election Code. The importer is Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Messages: On 8 July 2019 a declaration was received from the National Representative Georgiev Mihaylov. In his declaration, the People's Representative informed the President of the National Assembly that he agreed to arouse prosecution at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter dated 9 July 2019, the President of the National Assembly informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Assembly to arouse criminal prosecution on the request made, which is a copy of the declaration. On 4 July 2019 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 4 July 2019 to 25 July 2019. No 924-00-5 with an inch. No 824-00-6, and n.e.c. No 824-00-7 in the National Assembly has received: The Court of Auditors' Opinion on the Report on the Financial Management and Control of the Internal Audit of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. Annual report on the status of the financial management and control systems of the internal audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Opinion of the Court of Auditors on the consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee, respectively; the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Public Sector Accountability of the Budget and Finance Committee and are available to the Members of the National Assembly. Mr. Kanev has a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u2	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 83 of our Rules of Procedure I am proposing an extension of the time limit for written proposals for amendment and supplement to the bill adopted in the first vote for public undertakings, No 902-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2019, by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I'm voting on Mr. Kanev's proposal to extend the deadline. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to point one: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LEGISLATION OF THE BLACKMOREAN CREABRESSION, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON 13 June 2019, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAY No 149 OF 24 June 2019 OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILD. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The report will introduce us to the President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 149 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 25 June 2019 on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 June 2019 and the reasons to the Ukhaza At its meeting, held on 26 June 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed Decree No 149 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 25 June 2019, for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 June 2019 and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mrs Emilia Drumeva, Secretary for Legal Affairs in the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Valentin Yovev, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and representatives of civil organizations. Mrs Emilia Drumeva presented to the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns to the National Assembly the provisions of § 2 and 9 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast adopted on 13 June 2019. In his motives, the President states that he does not oppose the attempt to introduce rules, regulations and standards, as expressly states Article. 55 of the Constitution proclaiming the fundamental right to a healthy and favourable environment. According to the President, however, the wild camping regime is becoming more restrictive by introducing significant restrictions compared to the current order. This change is proposed between the two votes of the Bill, without public discussion, which leaves a number of questions unanswered. The President emphasizes that the restrictions for wild camping on the Black Sea coast are already in the Law, and the places where it will be able to camp are not defined. Nor are the conditions for use and stay in these places, i.e. there are no standards and regulations expressly provided for in the Constitution guarantee for the implementation of the fundamental right to a clean environment. In addition to restrictive rules, according to the President's motives, the amendments to the Law introduce strict sanctions for their violation. In the absence of clarity on the capacity of sites authorised for the deployment of tents, campers or caravans, it cannot be categorically claimed that the most sparing measure to achieve the desired result has been found to protect and reproduce the environment. There is a finding of disproportionateness between the strict sanctions on citizens and the lack of strictness towards due care by the state. Representatives of the civil organisations present expressed support for the president's veto. During the discussion only by the MPs from BSP expressed a position in support of the President's veto so that the discussion on the contested texts could continue. The other MPs who took part expressed disagreement with the President's motives and pointed out that false information about the contents of the Law was presented by NGOs. It has been underlined that the Law adopted does not restrict rights but creates additional rights by providing them with an opportunity to satisfy their requests for regulation of free camping outside existing categorized campsites, but under certain rules, conditions and order, and they will be able to participate in the establishment of the regulations. Opinions were made that there is no way for the new regime to be more restrictive than the existing order so far, since order and rules for free camping have not been established so far, and there are a number of legal provisions in the current legislation that do not allow activities of such a nature. With regard to sanctions, it has been explicitly pointed out that the adopted law provides that these provisions will enter into force within one year following the entry into force of the Regulation setting out the conditions and arrangements for setting places for free camping, and that within this one year the procedures for setting places for the deployment of tents, campers and caravans will also be possible. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 13 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, I open the debate and give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am standing before you and on behalf of the group of the BSP for Bulgaria and I call on you to support the presidential veto, and the arguments for this are of two varieties of the BSP are of legal nature, the others are of a political nature. The legal arguments are mainly based on this veto. We need to make it clear that the matter the legislator is dealing with has its constitutional framework. It is determined by two constitutional provisions. Article 15 55 of the Constitution. If we read these constitutional provisions in light of the specific question, namely what is called free camping, we must say the following. Firstly, according to the Constitution, citizens have the right to camp freely and take advantage of the healthy and favourable environment. However, this right is not unlimited. It is, firstly, limited in its mode of use, namely they also have the obligation to protect this environment, and can be restricted by the State through regulations, as laid down in the other constitutional text, namely art. 15. The State must be clear and no one contests it, has the right to regulate this activity; it has the right to sanction it where that activity does not enter into the relevant legal order. Neither the President nor the protesters nor the campers nor we as opposition dispute the fact that there must be a order in which this tourist activity is taking place. The question is: how to do this? In fact, before the changes in this text, the state has regulated the process. Article 10a, which is the main issue in question today and which has been amended in the Commission with the latest amendments, has so far been that camping outside the qualifying campsites is permitted in certain areas, i.e. free under conditions and in order laid down in the Tourism Act and specific rules and regulations laid down in other laws. However, why the state has not adopted these rules in the Tourism Act over the years remains an open question. If anyone is wondering today why a certain way of camping creates problems, it is a responsibility not only of the campers themselves, but also of the state, which in the Tourism Act has not fulfilled its commitment. I mean, that kind of regulation has always been there. What, though, is offered to us today, and why should it be reconsidered? Today we are offered non-regulation, today we are offered to authorize a certain number of ministers - four - eventually one day to regulate. That's where all the pressure comes from. Firstly, from a theoretical point of view, given that the issue is also constitutional, such regulation must be made in law and not in a legislative act. There's a few arguments about that. Firstly, the law is changing harder and it is he who can be put on constitutional control to see if it fits into the constitutional framework. Second, there are severe sanctions.. fines from 1000 to 3000 BGN, in case of re.. up to 5000 BGN. According to the principle of legality, these penalties must be clearly outlined in a legal framework, to know what infringement is being held responsible for. The fact that the Law provides for these sanctions to be applied in any future, after the adoption of the Ordinance, does not completely override these fundamental principles of law. How can we, as MPs, assess today whether the sanction envisaged is proportionate to the intended purpose, since those things that will be banned will be set forward in the future? It is like today to decide that the parking ticket becomes 5000 BGN, but that the areas in which it can be parked will be determined in a year, year and a half. Naturally, it will create tension in society. Naturally, a certain group of people who use these services feel stigmatized and worried. That's not the right approach. Penalties must be clearly bound by legal provisions, not subject to any conditions. The very fact that four ministers are scheduled to make this new regulation shows that it is complex enough and covers sufficient aspects and competences of different ministries to determine it by law. It was no accident that the previous regime envisaged this to be the Law on Tourism. Frankly, it seems to me that it is much more regular, and if this problem had to be solved, it had to be resolved through the Tourism Act, not through the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. The Law itself on the structure of the Black Sea coast, which we are looking at today, has been tabled by the Council of Ministers and it does not initially treat this matter. This is the second element I would like to draw your attention to. On such issues, which affect complex balances between the rights and freedoms of citizens, on one hand, and the need for regulation, on the other, broad forms of debate, of discussions must be sought. Not make changes between first and second readings. This law has been in public discussion for a long time, but its main objective, according to its importers, is to create the possibility of the Minister of Tourism's orders relating to tenders and certain bids being subject to prior implementation. It was not the purpose of the Law to regulate free camping. From then on, the debate has changed and is not leading in a good direction. To such an extent, it was not the purpose of the Law that when a proposal was made on the website for public consultation by interested civil associations explaining free camping, it was written in the section "Reaction of the Ministry": "Camping is not the subject of the current legislative initiative. However, it happens that this proposal appears in the debate between first and second readings. It has not yet entered into force, but it has been voted on. The public debate thus built puts different categories of citizens against each other absolutely pointless because they have the same purpose. Neither the importers of the Law nor the protesters against the Law want to destroy the Bulgarian nature! Yes, you are! But they want participation in the way to ensure the preservation of nature and the fundamental right of every Bulgarian citizen to benefit from it. The public discussion was overturned. It cannot be replaced by a quick committee between the first and second readings, as a matter of fact, caused by an extraordinary one, at 11.30 p.m. during a parliamentary meeting, when the various organisations that have something to say have been formally heard. They are promised to participate in the preparation of this regulation. But it's not a promise enough, it's not a guarantee enough, because it's legal matter. It should be debated here, to make it a sustainable legal framework in which Bulgarian tourism can develop, including in this part. There is also a common feeling on this, ladies and gentlemen, that the Law is somehow more stringent to a certain group of people who do not have the same economic and political resources than to another group of people. What is more harmful to the environment that today we are dealing with the free camping camping? The tent in the forest or the jeep on the beach, the junk left by camping, or the tons of construction waste that buried the Black Sea? A feeling of double standard is created! It creates a feeling that you purposely stigmatize one another and keep the violations of another! I am not saying that this is the purpose of the importers of the Bill, I am not saying that this is the purpose of this House, I am only saying that this debate is necessary and it must be held together with the stakeholders who are not only campers, are not only in this House. These are also the owners of other types of categorized campings, hoteliers and other people interested in the development of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and ultimately of every Bulgarian citizen. Accepting the veto will not be a loss for you or a victory for anyone. Accepting the veto will be a chance for this debate to take place in a normal atmosphere and atmosphere. It is evident from the transcript of the Regional Commission, which is leading that during the discussion between the first and second reading bases for such a debate there are, the hearing of the stated arguments there is, they just need time to find a solution that will not bring people to protests against each other, but will be congratulated by everyone. In fact, this veto will ensure that this law is passed in two readings, as is right for matter that is so important. As for the initial objectives of the Law of the Council of Ministers, they have been achieved as the provisions of this Law, which were originally envisaged, are not subject to the veto and have not been returned. I therefore appeal to you not to vote automatically, but to continue a valuable dialogue that will lead Bulgarian citizens to feel at their seaside at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that this law must be supported and the veto rejected. I do not agree with those that have just been expressed by the parliamentary tribune. First of all, quite normal practice is the arrangement where it is detailed and cannot be developed in law, to be delegated power to the executive authority, whether it is a ministry, a minister or several ministries, to work out the draft legislative act. This is found in many laws, not only in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. In terms of lack of control. In fact, there is control and this regulation is subject to control. Under the Administrative Code of Procedure, the control is carried out by the Supreme Administrative Court, before which the act of adoption and the regulation itself may be contested if they contradict the law. So we do not see in this regard any obstacle in the arrangements that have been voted on. Thirdly, there are no problems with administrative criminal provisions. They exist at the moment with clear compositions of administrative violations and penalties for them. It is not true that we cannot compare whether or not the penalties provided for and proposed correspond to the infringement. On the contrary, this is quite possible, and the penalties provided for and the amounts which have been set can in no case be defined as excessive in the case of the object of protection. Next, the period to be set between the adoption of the regulation and the entry into force of the administrative penal provisions is sufficient in order to ensure that the persons concerned, the addressees of those rules, are carefully acquainted with what the law authorises and prohibits and comply with those rules. With regard to the fact that these amendments have been tabled between first and second readings, this is the right of legislative initiative of any MP, constitutional law. Accordingly, the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works has considered that it can examine these proposals and have examined them. She looked at them at a regular meeting at a time when there wasn't really a plenary session. So I see neither procedural nor material obstacles to supporting this vote and rejecting the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! By the way, I am glad that there is a veto, because at third reading, at the third viewing of the Law we will have the opportunity to explain what changes are being made, because I have the feeling that some administrations really did not understand the changes made in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act or they tended to manipulate themselves in society. What's the situation so far? At the moment, there is absolutely no regulation for what is called free camping. With respect to this group of people, we all comply with some rules and live by them in society. What are the changes? Their accent changed a little and stressed what punishments will be imposed on so-called free campers, and they are not in that sense. The changes are that amendments are being made for the regulation of this activity to have such separate places that currently have much smaller requirements. I can tell you that the Black Sea municipalities are spending a small resource and that is a fact. I, as a representative of such a Black Sea region, have seen it with my own eyes, that they spend a lot of money, a small resource collected by all of us, to collect and dump after such free campers. That's the absolute fact. I invite anyone who wants to come over in the summer and go to a place to see what it's all about. Currently, Bulgaria is the only member state of the European Union where the use of foreign rights without permission is not sanctioned. Because such free campers are accommodated both in private property and in state property, in municipal and in no way do local authorities have the authority to intervene. Yes, there are attempts to change the adoption of regulations by municipal administrations, but they are attacked and one way or another fall. That's why the mayors don't have the authority right now. What's the change you've proposed? In the Black Sea Coast Construction Act to regulate such places with a very light regime, with the creation of elementary sanitary conditions, which I think it is absolutely normal for these requirements to be regulated in the Law. Six months is given, it is regulated in the Law, to make the legislative part of the relevant ministries and, respectively, a year and six months after the adoption of the Law, possibly to delegate rights to the municipalities to the mayors to impose sanctions on those who do not comply with it. I have worked hard to get out what is the practice in the Member States of the European Union, and I can tell you, I will quote them: Portugal is a ban regime; in Spain it is a ban regime; in Italy it is a ban regime. The fine for infringement is from 25 to 500 euros; in Croatia it is a ban regime of about 405 euros; in France it is a ban regime; in Greece it is a ban regime of 300 euros and detention of up to six months; in Malta it is a ban regime; in Germany it is a ban regime. You can see the practice. It was indeed high time to make such proposals in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, and I am absolutely convinced that we should all support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Replies to Mr. Boychev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I take a line because on several occasions it is mentioned, including in the meeting of the Commission that, you see, the Administration of the President had not understood the Law. I'm afraid you misunderstood him. There's no such thing as a regulation you've been saying so far. Article 10a is still regulated in the Tourism Act where you should do the things you are talking about. No one denies that the legal framework is necessary. Why the Tourism Act is not done in the years behind is a question that we can ask ourselves, but there must be done because there is free camping and camping at all not only on the Black Sea, that is, if such rules are needed, they must be laid down in the Tourism Act. One more thing, and now with what you're proposing, there's still no regulation, zero regulation. There will be one in six months after the establishment of a regulation provided for in this law. In other words, the things you speak of are good, but they are not those recorded in the Law. A moment ago, Mr. Mitev said that there were clear compositions of administrative violations. No, there's gonna be another one in six months. What is recorded is already there, and the sanctions that will then be applied will be applied a year later. Usually and always is the reverse mode. First it is said what is the composition of the infringement, then what is the penalty, so that we can both, and you can think about its proportionality. I stress that there has been an opportunity for regulation before, and it has not been made, and there is no regulation now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for the line. There's really a misunderstanding. Yes, this is regulated in the Law and it is stated in what time the relevant ministries must make the regulation. Matter is a little wider, and that's why the ministries are regulated, which have to make this regulation, a year and six months later the sanctions come in, but, I say, it's about time. So far, there is absolutely no legal regulation of what is called free camping. Once again, my respects to this group of people, but it is high time to make such a regulation, and I think this is happening now with the changes that have been proposed by the Black Sea Coast Construction Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address you to see the veto of the President and the civil debate that was on the streets of Sofia and not only on the streets of Sofia and elsewhere in the country, after the adoption of this bill from the following point of view. All of us, you bring in the Council of Ministers, want a good deed to happen: to have a better order, to preserve the life of Bulgarian citizens and, respectively, to continue to have wild camping. Along with that, campers say: we want our territory. Yeah, they won't be limited. Parallel to this, see what happens? Citizens who are debating........................... for the European development of Bulgaria.... you do not want to hear them that they do not have confidence in the four institutions that will make the regulation, they want this to be regulated by law....................................... and will have a minimum of six months of debate in the four ministries in question. I appeal to you for a sensible solution: not because you want to resist that the President imposes a veto, but because of that, to reassure a group of society and say: yes, you want to participate together with the administration to prepare some rules, but look at their proposals, which are available in all committees. They say what my colleague Zarkov pleads: let the Tourism Act have a stable act in which there are standards, order. And the colleagues are right about what goes as a debate in the society.. not only on the Black Sea, along the dams, along the lakes, in the mountains there is camping. If necessary, the Minister of Tourism to make standards together with the four ministries, along with civil society in this six-month period, to accept this veto under § 2, the Law to enter into force and these good intentions of all the countries, both you, the rulers, and our proposal as spokespersons of the opposition, and civil society, and the President himself. At the moment we are all talking about the same thing, only you resist and say: within six months there will be a good regulation. What if this decree goes into court and if the court starts looking at it for a long time? This means that for another year we will have postponed all good intentions. Then, I got a lot of calls from a lot of people camping. They're scared and they say, "Now that I'm there, will I get a ticket or not?" Let us give a message to the public that the fine will be after the adoption of the regulation in question if it is adopted at all. Then let one of you come out and tell which ministry will lead in the regulation in question. The Ministry of Tourism is currently one of the players in the Black Sea Coast Act, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works there are also forests. How will you institutionalize the finers again give the municipalities the hot potato to fine? This is where we didn't get a good look at it. The fact is that there is a civil mistrust, it is a fact, as the colleague said, that once again we are in this debate.. Let us not make resistance. All of us, together with you, want to make the Law better, but it allows people to understand that it is good for them and not for our political stubbornness here to each other. That is why I appeal to you: accept the veto, to reject § 2 and § 9, to give for ourselves a period within which, if necessary, the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works or the Economic Commission, to adopt standards, to draw the four ministries together with civil society and to resolve this issue, and now we are creating unnecessary tensions in society with stubborn politics. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shishkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u18	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to express my admiration to the President's Administration for listening to the voice of the protesters and making some appropriate response. But as if we were listening to this voice, I would say selective, as some of the protesters who were before the Presidency very clearly and categorically voiced support for these changes, only that voice was not heard enough. I would like to make a few comments on the motives with which the Law was returned and to answer some of the questions that the President is asking. First of all, he says the regime becomes more restrictive. That's definitely not true. On the contrary, I believe that the proposed changes significantly extend the scope of the locations that can be used for what is called free camping. Previously on Art. 10a in the Law was allowed camping only in zone A. At the moment, there is also an area that is practically 20 times more as an area and as opportunities, so it is quite false this claim that there is some restribution. On the contrary, so to speak, we open a bigger door and with another correction in the Law we make this door even wider. At present, the Constitution is made clear as well as in art. 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, that land is basically national wealth and it can only be used for agricultural purposes. What the new article foresees. 10a is precisely to use the land for activities other than agricultural needs without changing its purpose. In other words, we relieve the regime of use of these properties, whether private or municipal, whether it be public. We're talking about properties outside the beaches. What is the number of people who will be affected by the changes? This is a very interesting question the President is asking. He himself very well understands that there is no way to answer this question, provided that there is no regulation of these activities. So the question is nonsense, we ask a question that doesn't make sense. We could only get such an answer when clear regulations have already been established and when it is clear where, in any way, and with what volume it can be camped. If all the caravan owners go to the camping grounds, will there be room for all of them? This shows, I'd say, a frivolous attitude to matter. You cannot ask such a question, given that it is these changes that are at stake that will ensure that this does not happen. On the contrary, we say: you have the right to camp outside designated and classified places. With the same force we could ask the question: if all Bulgarian citizens decide to visit the hotels on the Black Sea coast, will there be seats for them? It's a completely illogical question! The standards and regulations have not yet been established, but the fines have already been prescribed in the Law. I would like to ask the President a question: is it knowingly missing the provision that clearly states that the fines come into effect only one year after the regulation, which will, of course, be prepared by four ministries together with all interested NGOs, is adopted? Is this a conscious omission, or are we looking for some manipulation, suggestion that creates additional tension in society? Until this regulation has been adopted, after all the concerted provisions, these penalties and these fines will not start to take effect. This must be made clear to everyone, because I have heard several times already from my opposition colleagues repeating this mantra. Finally, I would like to use the President's words that he is practically starting with: I do not oppose the attempt to introduce rules, regulations and standards. We are opposed to the attempt to introduce rules and standards something that is extremely important and pressing both for environmental protection, I would say, and for the purely basic hygiene conditions that must be introduced in order for these campers to make the most of the conditions provided by our country. By the way, I don't know where this definition came from, this wild camping that has been mentioned several times, first, by the presidential institution. Such a definition there is no wild camping, and I would very much like to support the Law once again so that this wild camping will not become a savage camping trip, with all due respect to all campers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines? Here you are, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shishkov, your speech shows the great confusion and the need for another debate. You cannot at the same time claim that there have been no rules until now, but now it is not becoming more restrictive or there have been no rules and now you are doing it more restrictively or not. Besides, let me tell you what I think. Article 1 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 10a says: "The Zone can be camped under conditions and order defined by another law. "The zone is not included in this thing at all, and there are restrictions for camping laid down by the relevant laws for the use of agricultural land or other. Now that you include this area, you are not expanding the camping opportunities area, but expanding the area that will be subject to regulation according to which you will be camping. It's okay. And the President emphasizes what you ended up with, that it's okay to regulate, only it has to be done wisely, and with this law you don't regulate anything. You say: have simple hygiene and sanitary conditions. Where are they in this law? They've been sent six months ahead of time. As for the fine, I tried to tell you in our speech on the main issue. Why are you now determining the amount of the fine when the conditions under which they will be imposed will occur in six months? Then why not determine the amount of the fine? The last thing I say is that I don't want to repeat myself and not bore the audience: first, the rules to be followed are laid down and then the fine due to their failure to comply is determined. The opposite is an unknown technique, it contradicts the foundations of law and law. How would you feel if the President now told you that he would punish you in the future with three days' absence from the House, but when will he punish you, he will tell you in six months? Of course it'll give you a sense of insecurity, won't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line? You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for the line, the debate is really necessary and important because a large part of society has adopted the changes not in the best way, I would call it. I'll start answering your questions backwards. I am not a lawyer, I am an engineer and I do not understand much about legal technique, but for the last two years, while I am a member of this Parliament, what I am observing is precisely this: the law defines the framework, sets the sanctions and determines the way in which they will be imposed by a regulation. It's a very commonly used technique I don't know, but there are lawyers in the room and let's pronounce whether it's right or wrong. From a purely technical point of view, it is absolutely pointless now to make requirements for introducing a regulation and six months later to return to the Law, and to say: now under this regulation the sanctions will be as follows. It is absolutely pointless to open the Law twice. Where are these hygiene conditions that you commented on? Well, it's in the regulation. That's where they belong. There is no way in the Law we can record details with areas, sizes, distances, if you will, with a way of discharge, with a way of powering and so on. This is precisely the subject of the regulation and this regulation will therefore have to be issued by four ministries. That's how I answer your first question. Yes, in art. 10a it is currently said that these activities are carried out according to specific norms and rules, but I would say that the Ministry of Tourism is not competent enough to issue such norms and rules, obviously. This is not a lack of some technical weakness or ignorance. On the contrary, the matter is comprehensive, it concerns four ministries. That is why, realizing this fact, this change has been made. We give these four ministries the opportunity to find the way to make such rules so that they meet both environmental protection requirements and at the same time do not interfere with those who want to camp freely. That's the point of these changes. I also believe that there is something that remains unclear to both colleagues and the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. We continue with the speeches. Guys, are there any other speeches? Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I support the veto imposed by President Rumen Radev on the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. First of all, because I also believe that the possible regulation of free camping should be part of another law, the Tourism Act, and after a great deal of public support. In the way the current type of the Law is structured, it is not part of the possibility of stimulating and developing tourism, but is lobbying and restrictive towards an essential part of citizens preferring a holiday near nature. The current season is indicative and gives reason for rethinking the approaches for development of Bulgaria as a tourist destination. Such laws prevent the development of tourism in all its forms. Boyko Borisov fixed football these days, fixed Bulgarian-Serbian relations, but people with tents and caravans as well as tourism are not his priority. Its priorities are asphalt and concrete, but when they are a major part of the proposed tourist product, there are not enough willing to rest in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I thought I would start by saying that Parliament would always win if there were such valuable debates without my colleague Jankov's last speech, and I wanted to start this way. Let's not spoil the good mood. Undoubtedly, the debate is meaningful and has its field of expression in the future, not only in this House but also outside it. I'll start there. The presidential veto. Naturally, I, too, as a Member of the National Assembly, and my fellow Members, treat each of the motives that have been set out, whether on this bill or on any other. We always treat the President's institution with enough respect, regardless of our principle differences and our political biases, as far as the President's motives and his administration are concerned. We listened very carefully to their motives in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I believe that there was talk and the main motive was for this, you see, that it is being violated, or that rather the current more liberal regime is being replaced by a more restrictive regime. However, colleagues, there is no way there can be a more liberal regime, provided that the regime is not available at all.. there is no such regime as to be more liberal or more conservative. The topic is not new because it has been debated for many years. I express myself with all my consciousness and with my conscience because I have many friends who spend their time in this way by so-called free camping. I don't see anything wrong with that, or one of my colleagues is against it. On the contrary, what we want to do, although the importers are not from GERB, but we fully support the proposal made to have some simple regulation. It is very important in the Law to find the necessary balance in public relations. You can see that, on the one hand, municipalities are complaining about the fact that at the end of each season, for example, Shabla Municipality, which is often given as an example, is forced to find funds to clean up after the free campers, and in the order of 150 thousand, for example. leva, if memory serves. Money they don't have in their account plan, they don't have it. They can't have them because people who camp don't pay anything. They take their income to clean up the people who live in Shabla municipality and up there. They're forced to look for some way to clean up their own territory. The fact is that there are many such reports about what is left after such free camping people. I am not saying that everyone is like this, even with NGOs, we have commented that perhaps less is the percentage of those people who are unscrupulous, but there are. We can't close our eyes like this because free camping or everything free does not mean freedom. There must still be some rules and order we can move on. The point of these changes is not to impose any sanctions, not to seek any revenue. The point is to have simple, if you will, and purely hygienic requirements that everyone should comply with. I have bothered to see in the history of Greece what is the practice. You can open and you will see in Google that in 2017 two Bulgarians were even arrested because for example they stopped no matter the caravan or camper in the undefined places. The idea of the bill is not to make campsites within the meaning of the Tourism Act, which are of different categories. Here we want certain places to be defined. Will it be the territory of the municipality, whether it be private or private, without changing the purpose of the land, with some simple conditions and possibly for example the people who go there and freely have their tents, RVs, caravans to pay some minimum fee to go into the budget of a municipality and it to take care of these simple, purely hygiene requirements. You say that the Law should record all these rules. I don't think we should make this so aggravating, so complicated. I think enough non-governmental organizations are involved in this issue. We have engaged four ministries for a reason, because each of them has a bearing on the subject. Enough practice can be seen in other countries where a serious part of the gross domestic product comes from tourism has such developed tourism. I don't think we should aggravate the law that much. Many times here in this room, it's almost been about the fact that the law is too heavy, too clumsy. It is necessary, as my colleague Shishkov said... If we hadn't accepted that sanctions would come in a year, what? We are now adopting a decree after six months of life and health, and then again we are changing the Law so that we can introduce some sanctions. It doesn't make sense. We need to be more flexible. We in this room are more politicians than pure experts. Experts are people who work for years in an administration, in a ministry or in any state, municipal or any other agency. So I don't think we should complicate so much a not so complicated issue. However, the fact is that there is a very serious debate ahead. I also appealed to all NGOs to prepare their proposals because they generally do not deny it. The fact is, the President doesn't deny that there should be such regulation in principle. The fact is that you, colleagues on the left, do not deny that this is the direction. I don't see anything that scary in what's currently being offered. Unfortunately, a little more politicized and overexposed the topic, and in fact the topic is not from now on, it is not from yesterday. This is a debate that has been going on for a long time. Now we've found, let's say we've taken a small step forward, because here we're talking about some kind of regime that would eventually come into effect in a year and a half at best. I hope that in these six months ahead, the ministries will work out the regulation, a really broad discussion will be obtained and that everyone will say their opinion, we will learn from other countries where this has already been done. The very fact that there is no option in any country of Italy, Spain, Germany, Great Britain that you can freely go somewhere in someone else's territory and put your camper or trailer and not carry any penalty for it. At the moment, the regime we have, or rather the lack of regime, leads to this. If the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management takes such an approach because, in my opinion, a slightly more serious impetus must be given, the subject must remain at a sufficiently public level in order to be able to hear all arguments, similar to other issues, we can do in the foreseeable future in one, two, three months' time to invite the four ministers involved in the topic to invite back all non-governmental organisations, to see where we have reached, so that indeed within the six-month period we can have something ready that is reasonable, to satisfy the balance between these people. With all due respect, I said that I have friends and acquaintances who thus spend their holidays and find the necessary balance between the interest of these people and the interest of municipalities and the other part of society. So, colleagues, I suggest and I ask you really not to overexpose yourself and mislead society and plant some fear that if you see anyone wanting to take that away from them, if you will and constitutional law. No, no one wants to take it away from them, and I think every sane thinker is of the opinion, and should be of the opinion that we can't have that kind of activity that has absolutely no rules and then watch reports where people then leave... One of the arguments of one of the NGOs was that it was a question of education. My answer was this: if we rely only on education, then we should not have laws. If we rely on every conscientious citizen to do everything he has to do on his conscience, then there is no need for rules for anything. Rules must be there and they must be exactly balanced. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? The line Mr. Zarkov, the line Mrs. Lecheva, and the line Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I begin with what I agree with. Of course there must be rules. The question is what rules and how they are built. At the moment you are proposing to us to confirm a Law in which there are no rules and which is built in a poor way. The argument why it should not be in the Law I am sensitive to the sustainability of the Law. Today, on another occasion, you and I have argued on this matter. However, the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast has been in force since 1 January 2008 and has been changed 23 times in these 10 years. The 10a itself, which is now changing, was introduced with the same motives in 2016 in order to regulate this activity and then a deadline was given to lay down the terms of the Tourism Act. Since 2016, such rules in the Tourism Act have not been built for two reasons. I doubt that in six months' time, there will be such a regulation that the four ministers will sit down and agree. I doubt it, because the debate is complicated because so far it hasn't happened for a reason and these frames. There are many things in this law that should not be in it, but if there is one thing that should be in the Law, these are the rules by which, eventually, you will sanction citizens tomorrow. This is the principle of the law of establishment. And the executive must guarantee the application of the Law. It has been said that it can be attacked before an Administrative Court. It is a matter of constitutionality because it affects, on the one hand, fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. Second, basic natural resource and constitutionally fixed wealth, as is Bulgarian nature. There is no more legal matter than this. That's the regulation you shouldn't have canceled, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u29	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Ivanov, you wanted a line. I'll give you the floor, Mrs. Lecheva. Let's have group rotations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Nenkov, an important argument here, which, unfortunately, we miss to mention in this House, is the regulated places on the proposals that we now have: for camping, for placing the caravans and the campers, it is very important to separate them for the following reason I do not care about the safety, health and life of Bulgarian citizens, who, apart from going to summer, go to beach and in this activity will definitely enter the water. Therefore, the water saving activity must also be ensured. We shouldn't be witnessing ridiculous accidents. Unfortunately, you know how important it is to secure the coast with water stations, with medical stations and medical professionals who, if necessary, provide assistance to the Bulgarian citizens who have chosen to fly in this way. So please don't miss this argument. I don't know why I didn't hear it on the other side of the room. For me, we really need to think about the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I will draw attention to the quality of legislative activity. In fact, the question here is exactly what we want to solve with what you are proposing. I mean, it's an absolute nonsense because it doesn't solve any of the questions that excite Bulgarian citizens who want to fly camping. We are currently discussing a legislative activity that offers only restrictions without setting standards. Our reasons, concerns and main criticisms of the Law that you offer are that it does not provide a legal framework to set standards regarding hotel service, camping service and so on. You deprived the Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity to camp in the most attractive Black Sea stripes, mountain lakes and so on. What you are saying is that a debate is needed, that it is necessary to examine what world practice is, we should have done it before proposing these legislative changes that concern only restrictions. At the moment we do not have a single standard developed how many campsites there should be in terms of a 300 km Black Sea strip. There's no such standard. You have deprived the Bulgarian citizens of this at all, and now with this legislative initiative you offer only restrictions. This is not about what conditions a camping should meet. This must not be signed in the Law, this must indeed be signed in the Regulation. This is about a legislative framework... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u33	Finish your thought, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u34	...to tell you what the standard is. How many camping places should be on the Black Sea strip, lakes, mountains, mountain resorts and so on? Let me just tell you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u35	You pulled the map, but you keep talking. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u36	In the most attractive areas...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u37	Your time is long gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u38	And there's a hundred or two acres on Saint-Tropez that are just for camping.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, time's up for a line, time's up for the group. I reacted to the fact that the map was taken out and kept talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u40	Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a procedure to extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u41	Please continue. We'll extend the time if we have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u42	The lines that were made for me. Mrs. Lecheva, I'm starting backwards. I tried to explain with my speech, without being upset that nowhere in the Law is about camping. Nowhere! And currently, the Tourism Act regulates hotels, campsites, categorization of these campsites. I repeat, no one has been willing to make additional campsites within the meaning of the Tourism Act, to surround all the conditions and obligations that should be imposed under the Tourism Act. Here we are talking, if you will, about a municipal area where the municipality perceives that it is given the opportunity for all people to go freely to deploy their caravans, campers and all facilities, possibly to pay some fee and possibly to have some hygiene conditions that do not need to be written in a law. It's flexible matter. I don't think we should aggravate the law. As far as practice is concerned in other countries, it is precisely the practice that leads us to believe that there is no other country in which there is no regulation, albeit liberal or conservative. It just won't! In fact, I think that you are well aware of how this subject is located in other countries. As for colleague Zarkov, I agree with your words. Yeah, the fact is, it hasn't been done so far. I think we've expressed enough of an opinion on this subject as well. Obviously something has to happen, obviously the legislator, seeing that otherwise does not happen, has to give some impetus. With these six months of commitment by four ministries, be assured that they are not fascinated by the idea that they should now undertake this activity. The fact is that the National Assembly perceives the idea of getting them to start working and making some rules. It is indicative that we want to resolve this issue without opposing it. You should not in any way oppose ordinary campers who are flying this way, and people who would go to a hotel. If I'm camping, I'm not going to a hotel if it's not regulation, but whatever the National Assembly wants to accept. If I want to spend my time in the way I thought I was feeling better, there's no one to make me into the world, or I'm going somewhere else, so I don't have to mix the two things up. I think we should agree here and go this way in general. Is there a problem? There is! Does he need some kind of regulation? There is! Then let's all try to support this process together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this opportunity under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly to explain to my colleague and to those who will support the Law so tabled, the arguments that have obviously not been heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u45	I'm just asking for the personal explanation. Enter a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u46	You react like Pavlov's dog when you hear Boyko Borisov's name. I use exactly this comparison, reminding you that Ivan Pavlov did experiments with dogs to establish the relationship between saliva separation and digestion. Yes, for this law and for the changes is responsible Boyko Borisov. Even though you're defending...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u47	Since I now find no personal explanation in what you said, Mr. Iankov...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u48	Boyko Borisov is responsible for these changes that you make between first and second readings. Even though you, my colleague, have not been seen by the citizens around Borisov's SUV in an open window...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u50	Responsibility for the changes to this law...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u51	Finish, because you're not in a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u52	...and for the consequences are carried only by Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u53	Abort your statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u54	You're part of this support...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u55	You have no personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u56	...but for how long, you never know.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u57	We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since I am the author of the President's controversial proposals, I can hardly be a suspect that I was in someone's jeep and that the Prime Minister somehow influenced me to bring them in. I would like to start by saying that the idea of submitting these legislative proposals is entirely positive. In fact, we have a problem with people's ability to legally camp outside the qualifying campsites, and we want to solve this problem - that is the point of the proposal and is entirely positive. That one part of the NGOs decided that they would find in this law an enemy who somehow justified their existence is rather the second part of the question than the main one. The truth is that this is the first time we have created rules and regulations regarding people's ability to camp freely, because there is not a single law in which you have permission to climb into someone else's property, to possess someone else's property at all, to pollute it, damage it and so on. There is a lot of talk about waste, however, about the danger of fires within just one year there are several dozen such protocols when so-called wild campers are checked, and these fires can cause damage to nature, which are incalculable with the free interpretation of someone's life rules. I also respect the presidential institution in principle, but I think that in this case we have a less strongly motivated veto, but rather publicly motivated in view of the debate. Yes, the debate has happened, and it's happening right now in this room. The good thing is that we are all talking about the need to have rules and that they must be materialized in law, that there must be active action by the administration and the National Assembly in order to achieve the final positive result, which is, after all, the ultimate goal of this law. Since I'm the only importer, I didn't want to deprive anyone of any right. I want to create rules and these rules to be in favor of Bulgarian nature and for the benefit of campers. In fact, the idea of these texts being proposed at all is to people who have been camping for years and introduced us to the problem. It was no accident that a huge part of them welcomed me, including those so-called protesters who told me that they fully supported the texts, most of them with some editorial remarks that I tried to comply with in the legislative procedure. There is no reason to believe that we are outside the scope and objectives of the Law. The Ministry of Tourism wrote something in its form to justify not raising the question, but the real legislative purpose of the basic law was not only to improve the administrative procedure, but also contained texts for the protection of dunes, i.e. to protect the environment, as are the objectives of my legislative proposals. I mean, I don't think we're normally outside the scope of the First Reading Bill. I think it is very clear that we create an opportunity for free camping and create a penalty for those who do not comply with the rules and camp outside the designated places. The law fully describes what the infringement is and what is subject to a sanction. The only thing left for the regulation is, in fact, the order and method of establishing the places where they will be freely camped and the appropriate procedures for their establishment. I believe that this is correct in terms of the legislative procedure, which is contained in many laws. We have taken a responsible approach enough by burdening several ministries to deal with this problem, as it concerns their activities. Do you think they'll be okay? I guarantee that at least as far as our committee is concerned, there will be control in this regard. Sometimes we have problems with the regulations that the ministries have to issue. Such an example is ZUT, where we practically have more than three months' delay. In this case, again, two ministries and one committee are talking about the KEWRC, they had to issue regulations and regulations for the so-called quick accession, but they were slowing down for certain reasons. We were gathering a special meeting of the Commission, calling for the responsible factors. We already have the projects and regulations, although late. The same will be the procedure from here on out. I strongly agree with colleagues who, as they say, have opened the door to NGOs in this debate. The problem, in fact, of not having the legislative proposals of the Law on Tourism for four years, is largely the extremely diverse views of non-governmental organizations regarding the texts that should have been laid down in the Law. So we have moved on to a simpler way to solve the problem: a brief and precise framework that will create an opportunity to set up certain camping areas; sanctions for offenders, because without sanctions can not, and as all colleagues have said, these sanctions will only begin to be imposed when there are free camping areas, i.e. a year after the regulation has entered into force, which is, I believe, a correct revert to the camping community. We can't start punishing, despite the vicious facts we know about some of the campers before we create conditions for that. In this regard, I think the National Assembly has two ways: one to support the President's veto and bring things back to the dead spot. Some time later, a representative of the National Assembly will again exercise a legislative initiative or something like that, there will still be disagreements. In the name of some misunderstood serenity in society, we will probably sacrifice the next legislative proposals. At the same time, the outrage on the Black Sea will continue, the municipalities will continue to pay for the flight of that part of the camping community that is not conscientious enough, and nature will continue to be threatened. The other option is to confirm our law; to have serious rigour with the ministries, who are tasked with drawing up the rules for setting up free camping areas; to continue the dialogue with the non-governmental organisations that I consider important, and ultimately after six months to have ready rules for the creation of these areas, following the process; to guarantee the rights of the Bulgarian citizens, first, to use this type of service, but at the same time to ensure the protection of the environment; to ensure the rights of municipalities that can be cared for, already authorised by the Law on the territories for which they are responsible. In this regard, I believe that our parliamentary group will quite rightly support the Law in its new vote and we will proceed with the procedure that only gives a chance for these already very complex and comprehensive public relations to be legitimately resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Any lines to Mr. Veselinov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, adopted by the National Assembly on 13 June 2019. Vote 210 MPs: 143, against 66, abstention 1. With this, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Colleagues, when I made the announcements, I allowed a pass. I want to inform you: "Dear Madam President, we are providing you with a protocol with a decision to change the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of.......................................................................................................................................................................... The leadership of the parliamentary group shall be in the following composition with effect from 9 July 2019: co-chairs Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov; Vice-Presidents Boris Yachev and Milen Mihov; Secretaries They signed Valentin Kasabov and Honest Vesselinoff. We continue with the next item on today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. The report belongs to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Veselinov, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u60	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs At an extraordinary meeting held on 2 July 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2019. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mrs. Vesela Nacheva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Georgi Terziyski, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency and Mr. Oleg Asenov, Director of the National Toll Management Agency. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. He stressed that the proposed bill introduces several amendments and additions to the Roads Act concerning the upcoming introduction of the country of the mixed charging system for road vehicles passing on the paid road network on a time basis and on a distance travelled. An explanation shall be provided as to the technical way in which the Toll Electronic System will calculate the distance travelled. It is stated that this will be done by determining the segments in which the road vehicle has entered, and a definition of the concept of the In this regard, an amendment to the legal definition of "declared data' is also proposed, specifying the content of those data that the Toll System will process. Next, amendments are proposed in the direction of changing the concept of functions that the data providers will carry out within the electronic toll system. Initially, it was envisaged that these providers, through satellite positioning devices provided by them, would provide the Agency with data on the geographical positioning of their customers, the users of the paid road network, which were expected to be processed by the Agency and supplemented with content, pending the receipt of declared data that the electronic toll system is processing and based on them calculating the fees due. This bill proposes that these providers of declared data provide their customers with the geographical positioning data of their customers to the provider of an electronic distance charging service In this way, the Road Infrastructure Agency will be able to focus on operating the electronic system, collecting tolls and controlling the processes and participants in them, while at the same time the business described above will be carried out by providers of electronic tolling services that will interact directly with the providers of declared data and will provide final data on the tolling of the Road Infrastructure Service. For the same reasons, the Law also proposes the abolition of the obligation of the Road Infrastructure Agency to organise the distribution of on-board devices and the direct reporting of users of the paid road network, and these activities will be completely transferred to traders who, in their various qualities, carry out electronic charging services. Accordingly, changes are also proposed in the competence of the Agency, reflecting the proposed concept of changes in the commercial operation of the tol system. An explicit order is proposed for the reimbursement of overpaid or unduely imported tolls to exclude the application of the provisions relating to recovery and detention under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. It is proposed that the reimbursement be carried out in accordance with the Law on State Fees, which order is significantly faster and more effective than that under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. Essential amendments shall be proposed in the transitional and final provisions concerning tolling and the interim period pending its introduction. In order to ensure that the technical testing of the tol system is possible, the proposed amendments propose that the actual charging with tol fee be postponed until security is achieved that the electronic tol fee system is fully ready and that all tests have been successfully passed into real operating conditions. In this regard, it is proposed to postpone tolling until a decision of the Council of Ministers has been taken to confirm the readiness for technical operation by setting a maximum period, after expiry of which, whether or not such a decision has been taken, to ensure the introduction of the mixed system. This deadline is proposed to be 1 March 2020. For the purpose of ensuring publicity, it is proposed that the decision of the Council of Ministers should be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria, starting from the day following the publication of this decision or, respectively, from 1 March 2020, to start the charging of road vehicles with a total permissible technical mass of more than 3,5 tonnes. Until the date of the promulgation of the decision of the Council of Ministers, by 29 February 2020, respectively, road vehicles with a total permissible technical mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes will pay a wine fee, valid for a month, week or day, and for the thus paid wine charges, electronic wineries with the respective valid validity requested by the owner or user will be issued. For the purposes of ensuring legal certainty, the paid wine charges by road vehicles with a technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes will retain the original validity applied for, whether they expire after the day of the promulgation of the decision of the Council of Ministers, respectively after 1 March 2020. The Road Traffic Act proposes a change relating to the imposition of a forced administrative measure 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act until it is paid, but for no more than one month. It is proposed that this forced administrative measure should be applied only by the Customs Agency under its control at border crossings. This proposal is related to the practical risks in the implementation of this forced administrative measure along the paid road network and the absence currently at a sufficient number of secure places to be taken to road vehicles with a measure. Opinions in support of the Bill were set out by the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Road Infrastructure Agency. During the discussion, the MPs supported the need for the proposed changes, while also raising a number of questions related to the reasons for delaying tolls, technical readiness of the system and the expected and realised revenues, which were answered by the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency............................................................................ On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes in favour and 3 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, tabled by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote. Madam President, allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. [[Reply from the hall: "And Oleg Asenov. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Please vote for permission of Deputy Minister Nankov and Mr. Oleg Asenov. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. You have the floor to present the motives, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are on the eve, I would even say that this reform has been delayed for a long time already, as the introduction of the mixed electronic road charging system I believe is one of the most important and important reforms that are taking place in... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u63	Colleagues, please be quiet! Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u64	I believe that the introduction of the electronic charging system for cars with electronic screw and heavy goods vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of more than 3,5 tonnes is one of the most essential reforms in the country that we have been trying for more than two years to be introduced. So far, we know that the revenues that come from the Road Infrastructure Agency and which are intended to rehabilitate and build new road sections of the Republican network are falling on passenger cars. Seventy percent and more of the Agency's revenue came from cars, which you can see for yourself that it can't be fair. The just and the approach we're taking is the one that destroys more and uses more the road network to pay more. These are precisely those heavy goods vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes. The bill that we have tabled with colleagues is based and based on two main reasons. The first major reason is that in the end the necessary balance or compromise has not yet been achieved, as you would like to call it, between the state and the main users of this heavy goods car system. We have more disputes that are not explained between the range of the start of the roads. What part of the Republican road network will be covered by transportation, and what will be the tariffs? I believe that when we talk about reform, because the word reform is usually linked to many problems and with a lot of effort from each of the stakeholders, there is no way to talk about reform, no matter how light or difficult it may be, without trust between the two countries, namely between consumers and the state, and the achievement of a good compromise. Because we cannot fail to take into account the fact that, in any case, heavy goods vehicles carriers will be able to afford the service to use the Republican network, unlike the currently used wine system. The necessary compromise must be sought. They've already started talking like this. It is true, I do not dispute this fact that we should have started these negotiations sooner. The World Bank also had delays in launching the process earlier. But this should not be a problem, or such a big argument, precisely against achieving this compromise. I think this is the more important reason why we should impose one postponement by a few months by six months, until 1 March 2020. The second reason to do the commercial exploitation of the system with six months delay is the technical part of the issue. We are not infallible people, I think that January with great desire we launched the introduction of electronic cars for cars, but it is a fact that this caused the first days, however, technical problems. We don't have to bury our head in the sand and we have to look objectively at the complexity of this system. It is precisely the approach we are taking now to separate commercial exploitation from technical operations that is sufficient to give us arguments from commercial exploitation, namely the collection of revenues and fees from carriers, to slow down until the precise scope is determined, on the one hand, of the roads that will cover this touring, the tariffs that will be introduced, and it is not important that we do not create turmoil and tension between consumers and the state. On August 16th, the technical operation of the system will begin. Colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency have clearly assured that the contractor company is ready to be put into service on August 16th under contract 10 800 km stretches, which will now be technically able to be exploited. What does that mean? This means that each vehicle can already be equipped with the appropriate on-board devices. It will be much easier for the carriers themselves during these months, until the necessary balance is achieved, and the state itself see a real bus or truck how many kilometers per year it goes, how much it uses this network so that it can really not speculate on how much prices of certain goods would increase due to the fact that the price of the service for using the road network will rise. So I think that we should not ignore this non-essential fact. And there's no way that, on the other hand, we don't have to test the technical compatibility properly enough, the technical preparation of the Agency. It is a fact that in any other country and in much more developed countries than we do, given that we make a truly innovative system, such a mixed electronic system is nowhere, at least by my own information, at the same time, to have electronic cars for cars and not to be shared, on the other hand, to have heavy goods vehicles to be towed, and given that we do not have these old frames that are available in Western Europe, well, modern, with on-board devices, through GPS data that will be much easier to use than any user. The fact is that also electronic wineries, although there were technical delays and problems in the first days, there is no way to bend your soul, we are currently seeing the effect of these electronic wineries. Each of us sees how much easier, how much more comfortable it is, instead of sticking something on your glass, to purchase it through mobile application, the easiest way through the phone within 15 "20 seconds." I am sure that regardless of the delay we are talking about, so that the necessary balance and necessary technical readiness can be achieved, that one day, and in the near future, we will congratulate ourselves that Bulgaria has one of the most modern innovative electronic charging systems throughout Europe. It must be a cause for pride, and we must all support such an uneasy initiative. We don't have to look so closely at it that it's almost six months late for the charge. Yes, we had a great desire for this to happen on August 16th, but for objective reasons as well, and sometimes subjective of the fact that there is still no need to gain trust between the two countries, the state and consumers, should not scare us, should not be the subject of excessive politicisation of a large and technical topic, as this is the path of reform. It must reverse the model in which the already heavy goods vehicle, which uses more the network, which destroys more the network, should be the one to have greater responsibility for the maintenance and construction of the Republican road network. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Ali. First statement request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! I remember the debates more than a year ago, when we first discussed the introduction of the Tol system in Bulgaria and the warnings that we of the parliamentary group of the..............................we made to the then minister...............................................................................that we were among amongst our own having been amongst our financial relations with us as a deputyinginginginginginginginginging the system........................... Expectations were very high, fairy tales were very big, more than 1 billion revenues were expected per year, nearly 1 billion and 200 million, with these funds to rehabilitate roads, to build new highways, we would even help municipal roads of the fourth and third grade, although they are not from the Republican Road Network, with subsidies given to municipalities as capital expenditure, to increase these costs, given that we will have enough revenue in the toll system for Republican roads. What didn't he say?! We, then, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, were categorically about the system and warned that there was a dark side to the bill itself, i.e. there was an ignorance that bothered us. The rules were not clear, the prices were not clear how many kilometers would be introduced into the operation itself. Then we were talking about 16,000 kilometers, that is, 80% of the 20,000 kilometers of Republican road network. We are now expected to introduce into the system its preparation, of course, for 16 000 km, but to introduce about 10 700 km, which this system, by earning, will introduce from 1 March 2020 and start the revenue from it. Then, if you remember what I said, unfortunately, I'm saying it today, we were right. The system was so designed in relation to the Bulgarian consumer requirements, i.e. roads that are not in good condition, not to be introduced into this system, i.e. not to charge consumers, which are carriers over 3.5 tonnes. At the moment, industry organizations and companies are negotiating with the representatives of the Tol system and the Road Infrastructure Agency to have a price synchronization and so that there are no cataclysms afterwards. I warned the Commission that a baker or a carrier carrying bread today, if he pays the fee paid by those who are transiting through our Republican roads, this will inevitably lead to the price of the goods and services themselves being lifted, that is to say bread itself as a price. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms a few weeks ago had proposed reducing VAT on certain goods and services in the name of these citizens to enjoy and to reduce prices due to the difficult circumstances in which the consumer himself is located, especially in small settlements and where, apart from bread, the daily bread they produce, otherwise as a livelihood they do not have. You did not agree, and today, delaying, the occasion and the argument for delaying the introduction of the system in time are the negotiations with industry organisations, precisely those who carry the bread, because they know that the price of the bread will be increased by introducing the system, especially for local companies. Our proposal then, and now, was to have different types of fees or at least the State's subsidies to precisely such producers and consumers, so as not to raise the price of these goods and services from the food industry. You will immediately come out here with the motive that this cannot and cannot happen, because due to European directives there are countries that have been fined because they have divided for the transiting one fee, or for consumers, Bulgarian local companies another fee. Yes, but there are ways today, even nowadays, the state pays subsidies for hard-to-reach areas to supply the population with food products, especially bread. So when you're negotiating, let's also think about how we can compensate these producers so we don't raise prices. Once, you do not accept a reduction in VAT on these particular products and, the second time, you increase prices for the carrier, putting it into such a system. There's a lot to think about. Let's unite. We don't do any populism here because there was such talk on committees. We are not a Social Commission, we are the Committee on Regional Development, Public Works and Local Self-government. My answer is: we are a committee on regional development, but also a committee on local self-government. Let us think about this, and those responsible for the introduction of the Tol system, the API, and the organization, as a guide to the tol system, to conduct such negotiations that none of the parties will be harmed. Thank you and I hope by consensus that we will take this decision, especially at second reading, and that these proposals that we have made should be taken into account so as not to get what concerns me, and what I am saying to you last year and now and today. Thank you for your attention. We are going to vote on the first reading, and I hope that between first and second reading we will be informed how the negotiations between industry organisations and the system tol are going to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. A line? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ali, dear colleagues! I would also like to say to you, Mr. Ali, that you are also familiar with media publications, that negotiations are currently under way with carriers and that they have an agreement to correct payment with regard to carriers operating routes on regular lines. It's a breath of air. All other services will remain, of course, to pay the toll system, the toll that they owe for the use of the different types of roads, but for the Bulgarian carriers who are on regular lines, I think it should be correctly mentioned that the MRDPB is negotiating and negotiations are going for a good price adjustment that they will pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second line? I don't see a second line. A hole, dear Mr. Ali? No douche. We continue with the speeches. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to invite your colleagues to come back to the Chamber after all. A moment ago, Mr. Nenkov, as an importer, explained to us how important this bill is. I see now that there is no great enthusiasm in this House, and the Bill is really important. I would also ask you to give the floor to Mr. Nankov instead of speaking so passionately to various colleagues in the Chamber. We do understand that in fact the real importers of this bill are not Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Ivanov, and a group of MPs. It's a bill that belongs to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it is nice for Mr. Nankov to explain to us what are the reasons for delaying the introduction of the tol system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. The importers are here. We had a speech. I will keep the order established after the debates I will also give the floor to Deputy Minister Nankov. We continue with the speeches. A statement? You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nankov, thank you for coming to today's review of the Law, because so far we have been watching this system three or four times, and here, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, I think there was none, or the most frequent representative was the parliamentary secretary. I'll start in a row. Mr. Alexander Nenkov said: this is the path of reform. You just said that while presenting your motives. This is not the path of reform, Mr. Nenkov. What you are doing is an example of how no reform should be made, how no new system should be introduced, how no confidence in society is lost, how no confidence in business is lost, how people who need to respect these laws, and people who need to implement this system. I will take the liberty of quoting both Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Nankov here on 26 July 2018. Colleagues, listen carefully! Mr. Nenkov then "July 26th, exactly one year ago: "Every slowdown is to the detriment of the system." "Mr. Nenkov one year ago: "I give you assurance that the whole effort and priority of the government is that this system will be in force on 1 January 2019 for light cars and on 16 August 2019 for the others." What did you assure us of, Mr. Nenkov, a year ago? So then you lied to us, standing back on that stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u73	Mr. Svilensky, please, from the stands you accuse of lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u74	Now you want another six months from this tribune. Next quote: The longer we take, the more stubborn we are and oppositioners, the slower this system will enter and the more revenue we will have lost. Mr. Nenkov, who's being stubborn? Who is playing opposition today, one year after your speech here, from this tribune? Is BSP pretending to be an oppositionist and BSP being stubborn? Where did this one billion revenue you expected for 2019 go? Who will pay them to the Bulgarian state, the API, the Bulgarian roads, the Bulgarian highways? He's stubborn, but he's not from us, but from you, he's not stubborn, he's not from BSP! One billion you promised. Mr. Nankov, according to which seat he was riding in the jeep, was 700 million to a billion and 200. I don't know how, but there were different numbers in the different shows. Mr. Nankov, I am beginning with you a few quotes because you have also spoken on the topic: The public discussion will be completed in September 2018. "Yes, but we are now July 2019. There is no public discussion, there is no talks with the carriers, there is no stacking of requests, there is nothing. We work in sync with the MPs. Mr. Nankov, is this your timing? Two years you can't synchronize when to start the system. The tariff was said by colleague Ali. How long do you need? You promised by the end of September there'd be a tariff. Then you said the World Bank had given options. Yeah, she gave us options. And you doubled these options by two and offered the carriers a quarter mile from Sofia to Burgas. That's what you offered the carriers. And they all jumped you, normal, and then it became 40. About a mile away. And you never know how much it's gonna be. Yeah, because you don't know what you're doing because you don't have a vision. Mr. Nenkov, it's not your fault, I told you the first time. This is an important reform and this thing must be done by the government. And here should now be both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Regional Development, because it is not a reform to make it two or three MPs. Neither you nor I can do it. But you have been tasked with this task, and now you are collecting my criticism, of course, rightly. Don't be mad at me. The range of the system. We started at 18,000 kilometers, colleagues. And that range justified this kind of system. Because this system is worth 200 million. lv. and that the Bulgarian citizens should know. Two hundred million leva and the argument to be this system was an 85% coverage of the territory of the state. At some point we come to a range of 6,000 kilometers. It is still not clear, but about there you are oriented, which we have been telling you since the first day that it should cover highways and first-class roads. You'll get to that thing, I'm sure, but why we had to spend 200 million. BGN to fulfil a task that can be completed with 20 million. lv.? You don't understand the scope. We talked about a state enterprise, and you have supported us here that it is best for the operation to be from a state enterprise. Now you, and previously Mr. Veselinov, who reads the report of the Commission, are talking about withdrawing API, subtracting more functions, of activities to private entities. The commission rate, how much is it? Seven percent plus two or minus two, didn't make it clear. I'm hoping the Ministry can explain whether it's 9% or 7%. Seven percent of a billion is 70 million, a billion and 200 are 84 million. You just give it to someone instead of going to repair and rehabilitate the Bulgarian roads. That's what you're doing. And all the colleagues who spoke here said that it was right to be a state-owned undertaking, that the functions had to be performed by the State in order to be under the control of the State. But of course, commissions are your favorite topic and, of course, where you can, you have to pass them. You're talking about a test period. Now? And I've heard here a new terminology. I don't see it from the Chairman of the API Board that the system was ready, technically everything was in time, but it was postponed. Come on now, we're lawmakers here to see where in the Law or in the laws there's a concept of exploitation and which commercial exploitation we delay. If someone has read the contract, they will see how clearly and accurately it is written: seven months for the technical implementation, 12 months test period and on August 16th the start of the system. It's written clearly, precisely and specifically. And let someone now stand up to say hasn't the technical operation been completed 12 months ago and if it hasn't been fulfilled who is responsible? And if there's a liability, will they pay the penalty, or will they not pay the penalty? The test period was supposed to end on August 16th, but so far we haven't heard arguments why it hasn't ended and why there is now a six-month test period or because you simply can't have any normal conversations with the Bulgarian carriers in which to say what BSP told you six months ago: tariff highway and first class, buses of a wine system and the minimum version proposed by the World Bank. They offer three options, we from the BSP offered you the minimum option. "This option, which is also accepted by the carriers. The bus fare option is accepted by the carriers, we offered it to you. We also suggested that the range should be a freeway and first grade. Because BSP suggested it, that was bad. When the carriers came under Borisov's office, it was very good. One walk by Mr. Nankov with Mr. Goranov in the back of the car on the Bulgarian roads and suddenly a new law with six months delaying test period. Colleagues, the embodiment of this whole story that I was telling you, is said in one word: the Tollgate. And here we will now have to intervene other authorities to see how the contract is executed, whether it is executed according to the deadlines that are scheduled, and why they bring the Bulgarian MPs into legitimizing, legitimizing the lawlessness of the Agency, which clearly has not done its job, obviously does not have the competence, the opportunity and the desire to implement the system. And most importantly, he deprived the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian state, according to Mr. Nankov, of 800 million. BGN, in my opinion, about 300 "400 million," because there had to be this money in the budget of API to repair the Bulgarian roads. This year, that money's gone, it's only gonna be wine. Why did we get the carriers to buy monthly wine? Will anyone answer that question? Each truck, you know, buys a monthly bill because the government's carelessness couldn't tell them six months ago that their wine cards would apply for a year, and they now go and buy wine every month. This is called the relief of the administrative burden, the power management of all such beautiful and beautiful words from the mouth of the rulers. Until one year ago you buy once a year, manage GERB, introduce administrative relief and get up to go every month for a tart because it is easier. We have more disputes over the scope and the rates, said Mr. Nenkov. How long are you going to argue with them, Mr. Nenkov? When will it become clear, at least to you, let's not to others, what scope and what tariffs? The World Bank had slowed down. Well, she was the main guru you trusted, wasn't she? Even we trusted them and said: give us the lower option. You don't trust them either, and now they're your fault. No, the guilty are here in this room, and responsibilities must be clearly assumed. I hope the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Nankov, will come to explain the scope, the tariffs, the lost money and the so fictional test period, I don't know by whom. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. First line Mr. Ivanov; second line Mr. Stanislav Ivanov; third line Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Svilensky, you've stretched quite widely in your speech. A really important subject, I am glad that we are discussing it not for the first time in plenary. I will address a part of your speech where you said how it is not done. That is exactly what I will ask you, Mr. Svilenski: When did BSP show how the road infrastructure is managed in Bulgaria? What vision is there, even in your document, mentioning the management of the road and the system in Bulgaria? We all agreed in this hall that it is necessary to improve the maintenance and construction of road infrastructure in Bulgaria and, naturally, the first-class roads. Because you say how it's not done, to ask you, how did you make the Lulin Highway? BSP, how did you make the Lulin Highway? What did we find in the management of GERB when we came to power, with the highway, what did you do? Remember and answer me from this tribune. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] How is the highway made? How did you make Sofia's circle, Mr. Svilensky? How did BSP do Sofia's roundabout? What did you do with the Hemus Highway, Mr. Svilensky? And we say: by 2024 we will complete the highway "Hemus" and we will connect Sofia with Varna, as we connected Sofia with Burgas under "Trakiya."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u77	Connect the introduction to the topic, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u78	There must be constructive criticism. I agree that at times, and when we discussed the introduction of the Tol system at first, it took so long. Why didn't you accept the system under your command? Why didn't you do this investigation? Why didn't you make a fare? Why didn't you do the range? Well, because you can't, Mr. Svilensky! Therefore, now that we have made the commitment, although with this delay, where things can be better predicted, better seen than all of us, from business and from the state, to implement it and to introduce this toll system that is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, allow me to disagree with the subject that you have addressed for the sums collected. We have to look at the amounts in general. For this reason, you know that only from the electronic winery until now in Bulgaria are collected about 250 million. lv. By the end of the year, that money will be maybe over 400 million. This, on the one hand. On the second hand, dear Mr Svilenski, you know that in just one day the meeting of the Commission was raised 30 thousand. lv. from fines from the police. 30,000. BGN, by multiplying them by the amount by the end of the year, which remain as days, you will get a huge amount. So, Mr. Svilensky, let's be realistic and say things the way they are. First, on the one hand, as I mentioned, 250 million. lv. are collected from wine fees, and are currently gathering around 30 thousand. lv. a day from tolling the police. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky, let me give you a line regarding a word you used. You mentioned that we have no vision. Well, we don't want to have a vision like yours, which made you go through BSP's cash register. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And right now, I don't know what kind of eyes you want to run here and this system. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilenski, in my personal capacity, I am avoiding political comments, but this time I was provoked to do so, so I will allow myself a political comment, taking occasion from your words about the vision that we have, about the so-called tol system. I took the liberty of opening up your vision and the only thing I read in the Regional Development Section is what is called the National Cohesion Fund, whatever that means. That sounds a little bit like taking from the rich and giving the poor a familiar story. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know what's better in this case. It is very easy when you take a ready document that is written on a white sheet, to start criticizing it. Yes, I agree that there are gaps, there are mistakes. We all agree with that and Mr. Nenkov said so, but we have to give this system a chance. Let us not forget that in parliamentary control every second question to the regional minister is related to this "Which section will be repaired or rehabilitated? The answer is standard: when the toll system is ready, so let's not stop this process. It's important, there are flaws, there are gaps, but they will be removed in the process of work. Graduating will say that it is not easy to put into working mode such a mechanism, which should have been introduced 20 years ago in Bulgaria. It is a little insulting to talk about introducing a toll system in the country at the moment. That should have happened a long time ago. Unfortunately, we didn't see it in the vision. I think our vision is better, so I suggest to my fellow Members that we vote for............................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Svilensky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear colleagues Shishkov, Ivanov and Ivanov! Mr. Chairman, first to you. I suggest to you really, but in a very soon time, that you organize an introduction to the Members of the National Assembly for Bulgaria. Apparently, she's interested. She's read by her colleagues, but they don't understand her. I guess we should explain it to them. I think it's okay. We went all over Bulgaria with a vision for Bulgaria. People understood us. [[Applause and excitement in GERB]] It would be nice for the MPs from GERB to understand us. Now specifically in lines. Mr. Aleksandar Ivanov....................................................................................................... Highway "Lyulin" "400 million warranty," a service facility, unclaimed by the state, accepted by Mr. Boyko Borisov. 400 million! Mr. Ivanov, are you listening well? Guaranteed site, 400 million unclaimed, accepted by Mr. Borisov! Mr. Nankov knows very well about our desire, one year will be now, to check the highways. Why don't you guys say no? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why were you afraid, colleagues, to allow an independent laboratory to check the quality of highways in Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why do you refuse and invite us to some API business to read projects?! No, we don't want to read projects, there's someone to read them. The projects and results of the inspection will be read by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, and we want an independent laboratory to do the check. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, 30 thousand. lv. They collected from fines a day. Isn't that right, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u86	Let's go together with you, when we're done here, let's send a request to API from January 1st to July 9th how much money have they raised?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u87	Why since January 1st? August 16th is the date.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u88	$30,000 each. lv. A day to see where that money went?! Because $30,000. lv. A day of 180 days is a lot of money and see if Mr. Nankov has collected it?! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] No, that's what you said. I just want to remind you that 600 people are already working in this department.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u89	And they make their money.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u90	And they make their money. Yeah, well, that money should go to road repair, not pay for something that's ever happened before.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u91	They're gonna go from wine to wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u92	Don't explain it to me from where I'm standing. Come here, talk, let me make a line for you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, Mr. Shishkov said the system had to go so that the Minister of Regional Development would not respond to... Isn't that right? Well, come on, let's go. But you don't want it to go. Let's get this system started on the 16th and on the 17th, on August 18th, the Minister of Regional Development will say how many roads it will make. [[Reply from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] You want to postpone it and Mr. Nankov has to struggle for another year where to find the money. Help this guy. He needs API money!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u93	Dear Mr. Svilensky, please complete your thought, complete your speech, or go outside the time for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u94	And you want that money not to come together, and you're doing it very hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u95	Thank you. We continue with Mrs. Yankova's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If we have to go back to the history of preparation for the toll system, we will go on November 11, 2015. The first cabinet Borisov of the Council of Ministers examines the World Bank's report on the introduction of the mixed toll and electronic bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u97	Let's take a look at it during Stanishev's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u98	We can talk about Stanishev's time. I want to tell you that we are looking positively at the introduction of the tol system, but we see a thorny tone and nervousness, because you are not using the legal mechanisms, the rights that we have given you to choose consultants, to target policies, to have conversations with society, and all of this to happen properly. There was even an interdepartmental council of different ministries to partner up, and somehow by 2018, we brought here an elected contractor and opportunities for the system to be built technically. Yeah, well, it's technically built because it's the money of the Bulgarian people. Here, within a few months, we play the good cop and the bad cop etude. Minister Avramova bravely says: I mean, we'll have infrastructure built, but she, you see, will be used for something else. Secondly, the Minister of Finance says: "I need money. They are provided for me in the three-year framework. " - You can read the debate from May until now. The Prime Minister says, "I'm the good guy. Now, more quietly, the European elections have to pass. " - Puck, now: let the local elections pass. Why? Because even the transport of water in inland transport makes the added value of four pennies, and it goes to the Bulgarian citizens because even for the transportation of people makes lev, lev and 50. And now do not be heroic that these funds will be reduced and they will not go on to the Bulgarian citizens: we will reset the system when it comes to passenger transport, occasional transport, and interdepartmental transportation and, you see, now all we think about is heavy goods! Colleagues, there is no excuse that you did not conduct this debate honestly with the Bulgarian society. This debate could have been discussed in stages since 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 2018 and 2019 and business and citizens and people, and the Council of Ministers and we MEPs, make a fair regulation. Now, yes, we, as opposition, benefit from the fact that prickly, the state works in a piece, but the introduction of the toll system, the created documents, all of what we have cooperated with you, is an occasion for how the state works, honourable colleagues from GERB. And you were put in front as sailors to defend what was missed by the administration. Missed by the administration and missed benefits to the state! And missed public relations to speak honestly with Bulgarian citizens! Yesterday we are listening to the debate of 39th century. 26 C.E. according to the category of pollution of the TIRs per kilometre. Well, 500 kilometers to pass a TIR, and we're a country where, you know, a lot of vehicles from the south to Europe are going to go. Well, that's 180 leva a day minimum. And now one bill for a heavy-duty TIR is 23. Well, where's 180 leva, where's 23? Let's at least introduce this, because right now we are the paradise of heavy goods international transport, and we will also be another six months, and three more months and nine more months. Let's say that we are freezing cargo shipments inside the country because the people have not calculated how food will rise or how the tickets will rise, but let's not leave heaven for international transportation and every penny for Bulgaria is important! And why should we care about the roads, and you are now shy to remain silent and not know how to defend this process? That's why we're angry. We are upset because you are playing the good cop and the bad cop for the theater in front of the people at the moment and with the introduction of the tol system again, but you do not properly arrange public relations between people and especially the attitude towards Bulgarian citizens. For everything: we will do it, it will cost the taxpayer so much, we will give so much, but you will also be charged to say it honestly and honestly! We keep silent, then we step up, then we retreat. This is not the government of the Bulgarian state. So yes, the system is needed, it is now the time has come for it to go to the state, we will not stop it. On the contrary, we welcome the introduction of the system because it modernises the Bulgarian roads. In the framework of this theater, however, it seems funny to the state and statehood, and you attract parliament to look ridiculous! For this reason, we will abstain. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Yankova! There's nothing dramatic about what we do. On the contrary, we want to smooth everything out in the system, we want it to, once it is introduced, to go the way it is intended. We had a great desire to meet the deadlines, but there were additional reasons and inabilitys that we had to look at, to iron out. There is nothing dramatic in this whole story The idea that we have mentioned several times is that those who carry more roads to pay more, but we have not yet reached the right model. You say that you will refrain, but your colleagues in the Commission voted for.......................................................................................... I can't figure out if you want to postpone it, you want to accept it now, what to charge, if there is, if there is no tol system and so on. We are concerned about the Bulgarian roads, we intend to start the system. It will start on the 16th, but the payment as a toll, not a bill, will be postponed by a few months. There could be six of them, we said within six months, we didn't say six months. Maybe in two months we'll be ready, clear the issue and start as it should be. [[Noise and lines.]] In six months!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u101	Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u102	The bill states: "At the latest on March 1st. " [[Noise and lines.]] It can start in two months, it can be in three when we are fully ready, then it will start. [[Noise and lines.]] The Council of Ministers. It's in the bill. I don't know, have you read it, or is that how you talk in general? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, Mrs. Yankova! Firstly, I would like to clarify something regarding what Mr. Tashkov said about the introduction of the system will happen with a decision of the Council of Ministers. So the moment it is judged to be able to start, it will start technically. The moment when it is estimated that money can be raised for tol will start with a decision of the Council of Ministers. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you started with Mr. Borisov. I want to take you back to Mr. Stanishev. [[noise and lines]] when you were going to build Trakia, you said that you would give the concession to Bulgaria's roads and will benefit not only the heavy goods but also the passenger cars with toll. That was the decision of the Stanishev cabinet! This is in relation to your speech at first. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, that's the vision maybe. And this vision may be embedded in the current vision. What I want to say, however, Mrs. Yankova, is that 350 million were collected last year. This year, 250 million has been collected so far, perhaps more than 400 million by the end of the year, on the one hand. On the second hand, Mrs. Yankova, in reality, we want to smooth out all sides and affect all aspects of the discussion of this system so that it can, when introduced, be adequate. Therefore, we agreed, you know, in talking to carriers to adjust the prices for carriers that are passenger transport, which are on regular lines, so this system is open. That is why the discussion with regard to the toll system is started in the MRDPB, and thanks to this discussion decisions are being made at the moment. That's what I meant. Thank you. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? You have the floor, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have made a wonderful retrospective of what has been happening in the last two years with the introduction of the toll system, but you have missed a few things that I think it is appropriate to remind our colleagues here in the Chamber. First, do you remember how nervously Prime Minister Boyko Borisov further 2017 threatened that the state itself would build the system if he could not finally deliver the order for its construction? And do you remember a few days ago in a loudly presented air show on one of the newly built highways how the prime minister called in an address to Mr. Nankov who, by the way, continues to talk and not follow the debate, but this is another matter.. that this system is a printing press for money and told Deputy Minister Nankov to release the printery for money? And just before, when Mr. Ivanov said that the system collected from fines imposed by the police, 30,000. lv. a day, he should have said perhaps also that the same Mr. Nankov said that every day the system does not work, the state loses a million and a half leva a day. Where's 30 grand, where's a million and a half, Mrs. Yankova? And we ask now, of course, perhaps you should also ask this question: who is responsible for these missed benefits? In his speech, Mr Svilenski also noted that these were losses for the state of over 300 million. lv. until the introduction, until the start of the tol system, when it should be, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. A hole, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see the introduction of the toll system as something very serious. For those of you who live in the past, I recommend that you read your books. The question is now.. within four and a half years we introduce it. It has many elements. The first element of the orders. In the report itself, if you're reading the documents, you don't even read the documents, it's good for the Prime Minister to make you perhaps a seminar, of the World Bank, of others... The World Bank document has given some forecast prices since then. And now that, within these four and a half years, the people for whom we introduce it, the Bulgarian society is representing them that we did not have this debate last year, the previous one, that we said to each other: yes, we introduce it, we introduce the system, it is not an opposition problem. However you justify yourself, you have ignored one of the elements of the introduction of the system of debate with citizens, carriers and all of whom you are now saying are an objective factor to postpone. Read what the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria tells you. CRIB offers you after the first quarter of 2020 to introduce it, and as far as I know, you are listening a lot to CIB, and not just the CIB and the carriers. If we are a populist opposition, we will tell you: release the people and do not introduce these fees, but we are viewing the introduction of the Tol system as statesmen. Yes, there is a system that has been built at the moment and we cannot hold tol the government and the Ministry, but you have a wrong debate with the Bulgarian society. You don't talk to people! You believe that as you manage, they should comply with you. This debate from last year, which you missed with the carriers, with the people, these are already lost benefits in the country's budget system. And that's why we want to tell you that you're not looking at this whole state thing. We look extremely seriously because we are seriously preparing for government. [[Noise and lines.]] We will thank you, we will say that you have built a good, modern toll system, with good consultants, but the faster you enter the tol system and it works, the easier we will accept the country's governance. Thank you. [[Applause from the BPS for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. I'm calling off the job. We'll begin in thirty minutes with further comments. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u110	Colleagues, we are continuing the debate. Last time I checked, the People's Representative Dora Yankova took the floor. Are there others? Mr. Bonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Why do you have to postpone the toll system? Government, ministries, ministers, deputy ministers, APIs, no one gives timely and synchronized information what are the reasons for being financial, technical, technological, management, communicative or maybe a mix of everyone? First, legislative frustration. Instead of stable, scrolling over and over texts, explanations without any sustainability and clear legal framework. At present, there is no single law regulating action at all levels. I will not refer to regulations or regulations issued. [[Noise and lines.]] You'll have a chance to give me a line. Secondly, financial irresponsibility. Instead of income from the toll system, the payment of fees and wineries continues, thus building rules of conduct by companies, drivers and citizens. We're gonna have to reschedule. I'm talking about a month's worth of wine, not a year's worth. Is another delay justified, given that huge gaps and revenue for the budget are allowed? We all know about the lack of funding of the roads, second, third and fourth grade.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u112	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u113	Thirdly, social tension and adjustment against each other to different groups of society, and as a result ambiguity about the size of the tol system. Fourth, transparency and control are not allowed to understand when and what money has been spent, therefore what Bulgaria's idea before the European Union is of a strategic sector that has both a human and a social factor. Fifthly, lack of expertise, even at operational level, statements and word fuses, scope, price, regulation. Everything is missing. There is no forecast on the consequences in the short and long term for the state, for the citizens, for the companies, for the carriers. We're gonna have to reschedule. Citizens and companies are flooded with different information completely chaotic. After all, with this continuing delay, we are going back to the fog to postpone the deadline. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u114	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nankov! They didn't stop talking today. Now, however, it is good to say that what is happening at the moment is both expected, logical and scandalous, because something similar happened to electronic wineries. By law, they were introduced from 1 January 2019, but due to problems in the system, car drivers had to not be fined until 15 January. In fact, what is happening shows the lack of ability to plan and comply with the planned schedules of institutions such as the Ministry of Regional Development and the Road Infrastructure Agency. The very fact that the regional minister, who is absent today Mrs. Avramova, very lightly notes that the Roads Act will simply be amended in order to satisfy the new schedule, is totally meaningless of any plans that are being prepared for years and for which, as has been said in other speeches today, nearly 200 million have been paid. lv. From what was submitted by the importers of the Bill, it became clear that the State was not prepared at all by any substantial decision concerning the system. It has already come to light that the scope of the road network to be charged is not clear and the amount of tolls that heavy goods vehicles will have to pay. Of course, we cannot ignore the legitimate claims of the transport industry because, indeed, on the eve of this change for their business, they have absolutely no clarity as to the scope and value of the fees, and the Road Infrastructure Agency, which should take responsibility for the absence of these two key elements, because it postponed this most important decision for the last time. At Mr. Nankov's hearing in the Regional and Transport Commission two years ago, we asked the question about the scope of the Toll System. Even then, we warned that this debate should start far earlier than just a few days before the launch of the Tol system. Of course, it is no secret to anyone that the performers themselves are obviously late too. Clearly, even if the system had been in use since August 16, it still wouldn't have had enough time to test it. Earlier today, Mr. Svilensky already said that this system should have started testing a year ago. For example, at the moment, the President of Tol, who we see here today in the Chamber, has stated several times in public statements that 65 new frameworks are ready, of a total of 100, which must be built for the needs of the Tol system. In fact, the truth is that it is very difficult to understand how the technical implementation of the tol system is moving, because its whole production, its introduction at all, has sunk into thick fog and opaqueness of the process. Perhaps here the government is hiding before our society that there are other reasons for their desire to postpone the introduction of the toll system, but for us by the opposition here is the motive for the upcoming local elections. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In short, past the new deadlines for introducing the Tol system, we are being offered other proposals today that will also change very seriously the business plans around the new Tol system. Today, it has also become clear about the changes proposed with regard to so-called data providers. I remind you that this should be the GPS companies that provide devices to trucks anyway. So far, the idea was for them to sign contracts with the Road Infrastructure Agency and directly submit data on the movement of trucks to it, and the informal information was that they would act without commission. Today we already know the reason for these changes. This is 2% of the revenue in the toll system or about 20 million per year that will go to these providers of declared data. Now these companies will conclude contracts with national service providers, by the way. Let's note for the unfamiliar listeners of our debate that there is currently only one registered national service provider. If it is kept as one, it will mean revenue for it, only from the first year of operation of the toll system, and if the estimated revenue for it is true.......................................................................................... lv. in the form of commissions. So we already know the real financial reason for the changes to this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? Here you go, line one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Danchev, you have asked a lot of questions and I was able to write down a few that are key. First of all, you mentioned that the electronic winery system went off with a foul start, so to speak. Of course, I couldn't agree with one such statement. Yes, there have been problems in places, but these problems have been removed, and in very short time. It is precisely in this direction that the delays of the deadlines are because we want to make sure that the system works in full volume, without errors, because it is one thing to test electronic wineries, another is to test heavy goods vehicles that go some distance from point A to point B. So in this direction it is precisely this delay in order to be able to be tested in real conditions. This is a system that has not worked before, a system that is largely innovation at all for Europe and for the whole world, something that is just beginning to develop. So it is normal to give some reasonable period to be developed well in order to outline a clear vision of the scale of the distances travelled, the scale of the weight, if you will, of the heavy goods vehicles and all that is needed to be collected as data, so that the necessary analyses can be done, on the basis of which fees are already to be imposed, which are real and close to the expectations of the managers, real and close to the expectations of the carriers. So technically, it's the reasons for the delay. There is nothing legal, there is no other problem, especially what you are referring to in terms of local elections. It's a total demagogy here. This is not about local elections at all. You know that the majority of the covered groups will be transit transports which largely do not concern local self-government. Yes, there will also be a part of the road network that will be covered by the first and second classes of the network, but this will in no way negatively or positively affect the local authorities. Let's not speculate on this subject. The reasons are clear. We want to have accurate analysis, accurate data based on which to build a well-functioning system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Second line? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Danchev, let's not speculate on the topics. First of all, the World Bank is our consultant. You know that the Austrian firm does not need to name it, is a contractor of this project. When we talk about scope, the scope will be implemented in its entirety by the performer, and what part of the range will start is our solution. This decision we will take after the debates that are currently being held at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Regarding your concern about the loss of funds. Mr. Danchev, you know how many billion dollars the government has allocated to the construction of the Hemus Highway. You know, more money's gonna come in this year than billing fees and fines imposed on the toll system. Again, I'm asking you not to speculate. Let's look at things in principle. Things are such that this system will start when we have an agreement with the business and this agreement will become a reality by 1 March next year. I don't know what you don't understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? Here's a third line, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Danchev, we fully understand that there will be huge losses for the budget
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u122	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u123	It is very interesting to define the term until the 31st of December, but will it be on 1st of October, 1st of November, 1st of December... Here we are talking about sustainability regarding legislation, we are talking about sustainability about companies' estimates, we are talking about transports, about prices, this is also a good accent.......................................................................................... It's just a little bit of stuff. Mr. Shishkov admitted in the line: yes, there is a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u124	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u125	He said it, I didn't say it. Mr. Shishkov admitted there was a technical problem. Technical operation. As I recall, in the contract of the contractor company the last three months are for technical exploitation and is this word a combination of what it means is not used precisely for missing the deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Opportunity for a douche bag. Here you go, Mr. Danchev. A complete set of three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Shishkov, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Bonev! First, to Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Shishkov, if today you have listened carefully to the speech of the colleague who is sitting next to you Mr. Nenkov, he started earlier today, with recognition that the system for electronic wineries has really started with severe problems, which, of course, had an impact on both the users of the system and the state. As the State has been deprived of revenue from this system for more than two weeks, including revenue from fines for the non-use of a tart. The fact is that the scope of the system, Mr. Shishkov, is not clear The fact is that it is really being introduced or attempted to put into service a very modern, in recognition of the specialists in the field, a tolling system. But the truth is that if, from the very beginning, you, respectively, the Road Infrastructure Agency, had an idea of the scope of the toll system, then perhaps putting it into service would have become much easier and much more trouble-free. On the one hand, there is now a system being built that is obviously not going to be used, which makes it somewhat and pointless, on the other hand, it turns out that some frames that were pre-made and which have now joined the system should have already gathered some information about traffic, about cargo, about everything you say, have actually not done any work. So the technical reasons you point out are really subjective to me. The objective reasons I have already said who they are and these are the inability of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Road Infrastructure Agency to implement and implement the planned and projects. This is the inability of the government and is the objective reason for delaying this system. I agree, Mr. Ivanov, that the World Bank is our consultant, and those in charge will decide what the scope of the toll system is, but then I ask myself: was it necessary for such a comprehensive, expensive report by the World Bank to finally come to the conclusion that you are doing that, in fact, whatever it says in these reports, the decision will take it regardless of what is written in them?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u128	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u129	Once again, the big question here is: who will bear the responsibility, where does the responsibility for the missed revenue for the budget, the missed opportunities to perform rehabilitation, repair and build new roads with the revenue from the toll system, which has been delayed by more than a year? Because in the original version, it was supposed to be put into operation in March, and now we're putting it off for March next year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Finally of Mr. Bonev in one word: really, Mr. Bonev, the inability of this government to create plans and implement them successfully is fragile. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. A statement has been made by Mr. Genov. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u131	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Nankov! Dear fellow importers, as you can see, it has become clear to us, even you already know how this law and its actual introduction into action are complete chaos and the worst is that this chaos continues to grow. The problem with both times delaying the start of the system already resembles some kind of screen, behind which there is pressure of interest and redecorating appetizing parts of the law. There's no way to explain, much less you'll explain that in the 90th minute of the game, they're going through another change in the law. Who would dare to explain, for example, why the regime of so-called providers of declared data is changing? The idea was that they would sign contracts with API, and now all of a sudden this would be done by the intermediaries between API and the consumer, the so-called national service provider. Attempts to transfer excuses for another delay in the back for late and unfulfilled negotiations with carriers cannot be trusted. It is more than clear that another delay, and so by about nine months now the month of March 2020, is exceptional and only the fault of the state. There are voices from the architects of the Law and they admit somehow that the double delay of the start of the system is an element of quite large ambiguity of its scope, tariffs and all that the colleagues here commented on.. I do not want to repeat it. Essentially, the total chaos is the idea of how to pay. There is no explanation as to why the current idea of trucks paying toll optionally, through route maps, onboard devices or GPS systems. Now this has sharply dropped with the only explanation that the API can't do business as if we have now discovered this inability of it. It is understood that so far there is not a single company that has managed to integrate the system with API and start a real work in action. We also look at the registration and signing of contracts with such suppliers. The reasons why the state agency is completely exempt from the planned initial sale of tolls and how suddenly there is no capacity to carry out this work are not clear, but at the same time the same state agency sells tarts through the website bgtoll. Or are we looking for an explanation in the financial effect? National service providers collect 7% of the price of both wine and tol fees, with revenue from the second will be several times higher. Shall we calculate how many million dollars a year will run out like this? Finally, as you started with the three-month delays, March 1 does not work for you, just write down April 1st to believe more people of this idea that it will happen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u132	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines? Any lines to Mr. Genov? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I have listened carefully to what my fellow Members on the left had as an argument against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads and I remain with a few impressions from their speeches. Firstly, I believe that some of my colleagues may not even have read the Law in full, since even a short time ago it was claimed that the purchase of route cards was almost over. I don't know anything about the Law, at least I haven't read it myself or imported it, I didn't sign it. You are talking about apocalypse, tragedy, failure of institutions to cope, no plan has been implemented. Colleagues, if it were that easy, maybe someone before us would have done it, but, alas, no one did. The fact is that in 2019 Bulgaria is one of the countries, the last countries that do not have such an electronic system. This means that we are going to make this reform with all the responsibility, with all the resources available at some point it is not that easy, sometimes it requires more time, and in the end this should not be a reason to minimize the efforts not to introduce an extremely innovative, modern system from which Bulgaria will benefit for years from a number of governments. The real effect of this reform will not be five or six months, a year from now, but decades from now. GERB will remain in history with the fact that he has made this system and I am convinced of this thing as perhaps you do not want it. After all, I didn't understand from your speeches are you this electronic system or not? Because, if you're for the last vote, when we actually regulated the introduction of this electronic system, you voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u134	Oh, is that true?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u135	What is your vision for us to fill the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency so that we look for some really average European levels of quality of construction and modern road network? Is this your vision to be against you at all costs? No matter what is offered, it doesn't matter that this is not some electronic system that GERB will use it for decades to come. Tomorrow you can manage, you will draw this resource, you will define it for example how to distribute this resource in the most appropriate way. I heard an even more untenable argument from the point of view of the fact that, you see, because local elections were coming. I, more inconclusive motive and argument against the adoption of the Law, had not really heard. Which reform, my colleagues, is easy? What carrier wants to pay more than he's paid now? If it was so positive without any collisions, then we wouldn't be going to do it. Because the opposite side, the users of this electronic system, of course, know that this will create a serious conflict and serious tension that needs to be ironed out. I have heard another argument that the electronic system has been delayed twice. Colleagues, we've never postponed anything from this electronic system before. In the previous law, which regulated, we had set a 16 August final point, where both technical and commercial exploitation must be introduced, it does not matter that the Law does not mention it. We're talking about a completely different... I think that we are speaking in understandable Bulgarian language. One is a question of the technical readiness of the system, the other is about the collection of electronic fees and nothing other than this. We have not postponed until now the introduction of this system and still do not postpone it. We postpone, so to speak, only commercial exploitation, the collection of electronic charges. Under contract, the contractor company must provide the state with readiness to operate 10 800 km of roads that is a fact, and will be a fact on 16 August this year. The state has a need, and I don't see anything frightening about looking for more compromise opportunities, some sort of intersection. Again, every carrier knows that this will cost him his ride. There is nothing wrong with the state not burying its head in the sand, not by some forceful method to impose any tariffs or scope, but to seek a balanced approach as far as possible. In my presentation, I said something very important: without trust between the two countries, a reform is absolutely pointless, it will not give its result. The reform is always associated with many obstacles, always severe, always dissatisfied. The work of the state, of the responsible institutions, of the responsible politicians is not to be intimidated by a debate or by a more difficult path, if it will also delay a few months to find this balanced approach. I think that's real government behavior. Everything else is in the playwright field, the political play with the topic, without making a clear understanding of what the goal is. And the goal is this: to reverse the model is therefore reform. I think this is one of the toughest reforms being made in the country right now. I can also give other examples of reforms that are currently under way, but this is one of the most important examples to reverse the funding model of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Everyone wants to drive on nice roads, everyone wants to use this infrastructure, everyone looks to the West. Let's, when we talk about the West, look at the model, who pays more for cars, those who don't destroy highways and infrastructure, or those who use more, destroy more and are heavier? There are problems with the overload of the trucks that everyone knows, which as a very important functionality the future system will also take into account. When we look at the West, we see what's happening in Austria, in Switzerland. The countries have done so in other ways.. they have wineries, each area separately there are road taxes that pay only for roads, in third place they pay and on every liter of fuel supplement that goes back to the budget for making roads. That's why, colleagues, they have nice ways. And so far, we have a wine system that has become obsolete in its own sense, which generates about 350 s.360s last year, which is extremely insufficient. Of that 360 million, 70% of the weight goes to cars. So how are we going to have these paths that we kind of dream about? And since, colleagues, on the sidelines, of course, you give a happy thought, I confirm my opinion that you are very strong at fairy tales. It is very easy to remove great ideas, vision for Bulgaria, highways, wonders for people. For everything people want to hear, you're here. The problem, my colleagues, is only when you rule. You in opposition are very strong, and I admit this thing, you always have enough arguments, but in the end, when you come to rule, you fail because one thing is fairy tales, another is to make it a reality. And there's no way I'm going to accept the accusation that we didn't approach or implement the plan we made. I think it has been clearly mentioned to you, and let us not forget, because this is very important: the Lyulin Motorway, where was it to where was one of the dumps and nothing more; the Trakiya Highway. The least quality section of which you are talking about for poor construction. The cheapest highway section is Chirpan Stara Zagora, this is Trakiya highway. Then why didn't you guys do it? Why didn't you go that way? Why now that someone has decided to do it and will try to do it, and I'm sure it will be fulfilled, why don't you support this beautiful idea right now? It's national, it's above political play. You're only looking for a way to confront each other and find holes. I end up with the fact that in the end it shouldn't really be something so fragile and, you see, everything has failed because a few months the state will delay the introduction of electronic fees. This is a state-run approach that I think every ruling party should be looking for. Nothing must be done by force. The decisions of force are usually catastrophic and have no long-term effect, but with some short-term effect. I hope and appeal to all sensible people to support a postponement, not for anything else, but to find this necessary balance between consumers and the state. We have not accidentally recorded in the Law until 1 March 2020. If, in the coming weeks, a month, two comes to some agreement between carriers and the state, and I know that we are about to come to some such conclusion, ultimately the Road Infrastructure Agency is ready for this to happen and to start the commercial exploitation literally within a few days, and no political motives, no technical motives can stop the state and the government from implementing this project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. A line? Mr. Shishkov, welcome to the stands. First line and one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nenkov, I will give you the opportunity to continue, and I would like you to highlight something that you have neglected to highlight and explain once again to colleagues, what is the real reason for the delay with several months of implementation of the operation, namely that this government has created a new model of behaviour, which is extremely democratic, which listens to all interested groups, including carriers. The reason is precisely this to find the right balance, to find the right tariffs and the way the network will be operated. That is what I would like you to explain once again to my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other lines? There is no time for BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. Three seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, if it were easy, everyone would have done it. In what Mladen Shishkov said, he's absolutely right. We are neither sinless people nor robots, we have good wishes and good intentions. Sometimes, of course, it takes more time. Sometimes it's necessary to just think about what happened and see the facts. On January 1st, we didn't hide it, there was a technical delay. There were problems. Not to get into the details now, but there were problems.. We put consumers in a situation where they have to find out what to do, once they bought wine then had to again, there were such technical problems. Now what do we have to do? We have to say: let's do it the same way again, put the whole system in question, put consumers in a disadvantage and then go out and explain, as a donkey on a bridge, that since we decided that on August 16th everything should happen?! You see, we're infallible, and we're gonna do it exactly like this. I don't think this is some normal, reasonable approach. The true responsible political power that governs must be able when it sees that there is a possible possibility of creating any doubt, or still failing to reach any compromise, to give even a step back. It's no accident that I said six months, three months doesn't matter here the prospect is long term. The state will benefit from this resource that will generate this electronic system. All governments will have the opportunity to make real, quality, European roads for decades to come. That's the whole motive and the whole way we've been going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Genov. Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u141	Yes, in the manner of conduct, Madam President. Explain to Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Shishkov because one of them just said there was no delay and the other said there was a delay. Invite them to agree there is or there is no delay in the system? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u142	I don't have the authority to invite the MPs to an understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u143	Mr. Nenkov, I don't know how you're not uncomfortable. Explain to Mr. Nenkov, isn't it uncomfortable for Mr. Nankov to promise at least fifty up-to-date issues to build roads, hoping as a panacea of this system, Madam President. Now the delay I think puts Mr. Nankov in this uncomfortable position, so explain it to him, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u144	You're assigning me powers that I don't have. You abused the procedure. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u145	I've been calling you all the time asking for your help.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u146	Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Deputy Minister Nankov, I am giving you the opportunity to answer the questions asked and perhaps to influence the way the MPs will vote with these answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen and ladies importers of the Law amending the Law on Roads, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I will begin with gratitude to the importers of the Bill, which I am convinced, is a logical confirmation, a logical consequence of the very intensive, constructive and constructive dialogue in the last three months with our business partners. I will give some arguments in support of this reasoning afterwards. Once again, thanks to the Bill importers. Perhaps I should also address colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group who asked questions, with the following reasoning: we are not building the opposition system in parliament, but for all Bulgarian citizens. This must be clearly and categorically understood most of all by you. We prefer them to be satisfied and calm in the introduction of the system and to endure all political criticisms, but in no case to bring a concussion into the transport sector, in the commercial sector, if you want, in the business as a whole, and, of course, especially in the Bulgarian citizens. According to the World Bank's analysis, the introduction of tol tariffs should not significantly affect the price of finished products, because a TIR does not carry, for example, one kilogram of sugar, but several tonnes. It is an economic analysis which I am not convinced that some of the colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group could understand, so I will not waste the time of the entire parliament. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In short, we do not want to give cause for speculation and concerns to the end user.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u148	Mr. Nankov, I ask for more respect for the MPs, who will shortly exercise their right to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u149	Excuse me, Madam President. Yeah, you're right. Sorry about the...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u150	If you can change your attitude to more votes for support, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u151	Yes, thank you. That's what I'm going to try to do in my remaining statement. We see that an argument, again to BSP colleagues, is the omission, I take notes, so I look at the revenues in the budget and the inability of these revenues to be used to repair and rehabilitate the roads. I'd like to make a few points here. First of all, it was the governments of GERB that had to convince you that there had to be a toll system. Mrs. Yankova made a retrospect back in time, meaning that these revenues are possible in the first place. We did not feel this concern for revenue nor in the political resistance at the initial presentation of the idea at all, of logic, of the concept of the toll system, nor of our two-year battle to launch the very procedure for selecting a contractor. None of you were in a hurry back then, by the way. Secondly, yes, you're right as statesmen, if you're statesmen, of course it's normal to think about revenue and we do it... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u152	Mr. Deputy Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u153	...but we're thinking a little deeper about who this revenue comes from. Who is this revenue coming from? And if the direct importer is the carriers, I hope that I do not have to convince you that the end users of goods and services are the ones who pay, that is, all Bulgarian citizens, and we are having this necessary debate on tariffs and the initial range of roads with a toll system, because for us these people are important because in order for them to be adopted and driven, as dominance Nenkov as an importer expressed a reform, such a substantial reform, as a future electronic system for the demand of Republican roads, there needs to be a public consensus and not its stressful introduction. And we are convinced that if, on 16 August, we launch the commercial exploitation of the system in the event of a balance of public interest not reached, you will be the first to strongly support the potential protest of the carriers. Thirdly, do not try to push the thesis into society: see, there is no tol, no income. I'll give you some numbers. There are, and so far we've been overdoing them, and heavy goods vehicles will continue to pay for wine until the system's commercial exploitation starts. The planned revenue from the first element of the electronic bill for 2019 by 16 August this year amounts to 240 million. lv. This is what was planned, and only until the beginning of July, by July 2nd, we have collected over 254 million. lv. from electronic wineries. This is not due to the reduced forecasts, but to the fact that colleagues from the National Tol Government have also created the necessary organisation, of course, to the preventive function of the blue lunar trails, as you have called them, these are precisely the cars of the police and their inspectors. By the end of the year, such forecasts appeared in plenary, yes, we expect to have a performance of more than 400 to 410 million. lv. revenue from electronic wineries. In this respect, around 50 million will be used in the current charging model. lv. More revenue from 2018 precisely due to the introduction of the electronic winery. Again, to recall that this debate would not have taken place at all if we did not have the political courage to start introducing the toll system, because we can ask about the 20-year delay in finding a sustainable model for financing roads. Yes, people may have forgotten your mandates, they were long ago, but let me ask you: why didn't you introduce the system so far? It's really not easy! You are well aware, you also have representatives of your members, party members of the branch organizations of the carriers, I suppose that with them you hold good communication, they give themselves a clear account of how difficult it is not only the balance between the different types of interest, their as a business, that of the end users of the citizens, and we as a government, as a guide of the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency to find this thin fragile balance between the business interest and, of course, between the public interest of all Bulgarian citizens. Your second argument that we are delaying the introduction because of the local elections is not going to qualify it now, not to cause such reactions again, is not serious at all. The deadline proposed in the Law, you know, is up to "not" and "to" 1 March 2020. If we reach consensus on the rates and scope, I am convinced that on Friday we had a really very useful meeting at the first meeting of the Public National Advisory Council of the Minister for the introduction of the Tol system, the meeting was constructive, constructive, so we have letters of support both in terms of our efforts and on the draft submitted by our fellow MPs by several branch organizations of carriers. And I repeat, if we reach consensus on tariffs and scope due to the technical readiness of the system, commercial exploitation can begin within no more than a week.... long before the deadline is limited and set out in the Law. In other words, it is quite possible to start before the local elections. Look, if only elections are important and this is how you appreciate policy making, we have chosen to work and make it a reality. The Tol will function when all interested parties have agreed to this, and this is what we say most responsiblely in the Ministry, of course, and the Members of the National Assembly who have spoken from the stand. You will not be able to achieve and divide the Members of the National Assembly, the People's Representation of the majority and the executive power. We work in sync, we do not in any way diminish the normative legislative initiative of the majority colleagues. On the contrary, we have shown at the moment, and we have worked in constructive dialogue, building on everything that has been done during the mandate. You asked a few other questions, for example, the theme of delaying the Tol system for August 16th. I mentioned the Members of the National Assembly, importers of the bill also made this statement yes, we are fully ready and will be fully ready after the technical operation. Let me explain to you what the operation means. This means that the system will be built in terms of infrastructure, software, necessary hardware, all servers, all protections and everything related to the toll system as such. We will have built on 16 August 200 stationary cameras along the Republican roads, and we will have 100 mobile ones that will be able to carry out the necessary controls. It is good to know that on 16 August we will have the opportunity together, jointly, partner with carriers to calculate the real effect of one tariff or another, from one fee or another. Therefore, Mr. Svilensky, the difference between 800 million, as you mentioned, you asked a question to me, and a billion and 200 million is because we are talking about different tariffs. There are not three proposed scenarios by the World Bank We suggested that this was probably a mistake on the part of the Ministry's management the most conservative, the most severe, the most disturbing for the Bulgarian carriers version. I'm talking about 40 centimeters right now. The proposed tariff is about 30 cm for the Euro 3 transport of goods. About a kilometer away, I'm talking about the heavier trucks, the heavier ones, the Euro 6 we're talking about, like, 20 centimeters. About a mile away. [[Noise and lines.]] So these calculations also contain the balance that we will achieve in the negotiation process with the Bulgarian carriers, the answer to the question: what revenue will we generate after the start of the commercial exploitation of the toll system. These will not be theories, paper bills, but will be real, objective, measurable, not just forecasts, but real figures, real fees that they will pay, and we will have them as revenue. The same is true with regard to Mr. Danchev's reply related to the loss of the state of a million and a half leva a day. The State shall not represent the MRDP or the State shall not be MRDP, or any Member of the National Assembly, a Minister or a Deputy Minister. The state is all of us, all of us Bulgarian citizens. And in terms of revenue generation, we must be particularly sensitive, as these revenues, understand, yes, they will generate more funds in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for the rehabilitation of roads, for the construction of new ones, this well, we all realize, but this revenue will come from the pocket of the Bulgarian business, of course, international ones. Our goal is to address gross accounts at present - 48% Bulgarian carriers, 52% international carriers to be the net payouts of future revenues in the toll system. However, we do not want to cause shock in any way, and do not give ourselves a god, not even shock, but minimally, let alone speculative such an increase in basic prices, goods, services, whether there will be an increase in transport services are the economic conversations we are having at the moment with the transport industry, but we need to find really the most accurate section, the most objective compromise so that we can be sure that there will be no harmed Bulgarian citizen, poor Bulgarian carrier, bankrupt Bulgarian carrier, so that we can have eyes to look at these people in the future. I am convinced that we will be much sooner prepared and with commercial exploitation based on the deadlines set out in the Law. The fact is that we need to have at least two to three more expert meetings to fit all these minor details after August 16th, when I actually repeat, on the basis of the on-board devices, based on GPS trackers, on the basis of here again I heard one quite wrong, there is no way to qualify it except as a misconception that the API will not carry out commercial exploitation, or will limit how to sell and tol reading and charging. On the contrary, all three ways are preserved: both in the form of on-board devices and in the form of GPS systems and trackers, which at present all Bulgarian carriers who drive abroad and drive goods and goods outside the border, possess and, of course, in the form of route maps, which colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency will provide to wishing carriers through the self-loading devices. Apart from that, a few more statements have been made, and I have been taking notes all the time with regard to the abuse of electronic wineries, that they are not annual, but they are monthly and the antilogy regarding the e-government and the electronic reform that is currently taking place. No, I didn't! There is no reverse logic about electronic wineries, whether they are on a daily basis, whether they are on a monthly basis, for cars on an annual basis, again in unison, and contrary to what you say, and in line with the policy plus for building an electronic government, we have issued different, and it is extremely effective mechanisms for accessing this service for buying wine talk. And through our mobile phone, we don't always go to a desk anymore, and via an internet platform, and through a particular mobile application, we also have, of course, self-tapping terminals, we have an opportunity in the trading chains of the partners of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Once again, a misconception was recorded that there is only one registered service provider, i.e. a partner of the Road Infrastructure Agency, when performing the commercial... [[Noise and lines.]] It's not a fact. Please, there's a register that's public for everyone. Just do yourself, Mr. Danchev, the hard work, open it, you'll see that there are three registered suppliers. Since yesterday, we have a second contract that has come into force. [[Noise and lines.]] The decision of colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency was more than a month ago, but unfortunately, colleagues from the "Concord Smart" is called the second supplier, submitted documents and managed to enter into a contract yesterday. The third supplier entered into a contract, but due to the failure to demonstrate technical compatibility with the interface provided by the API, the contract was terminated until this technical compatibility was demonstrated. Colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency and the National Tol management cannot allow everyone with one excel table to do business, as we have a number of control systems. However, we are talking about the money, the funds of Bulgarian citizens, those who buy electronic wineries and use Bulgarian roads. We must be particularly stoic, particularly careful, objective in terms of these sales. I would like to thank, once again, fellow Members of the National Assembly for the introduction of the bill, I would call on all the people's representation to support the proposed changes. I will finish again with the fact that our colleagues in the transport sector, our branch partners supported with official positions.. I can then show them to your fellow MPs on the left, the proposed changes. They are in the interest of both the government, the API colleagues, who build the system, so of course, and them, so that we have a much more objective practical and not theoretical idea, a theoretical idea of how much the transport industry will actually cost the passage through Republican roads, individual roads, and, of course, how much real revenue the state will generate. Yes, the figures that we comment on between 800 million, about a billion are the figures I am talking about only tolls that we are trying to achieve in ensuring the interest of all participants in the processes, especially the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you once again, colleagues, and do not succumb to manipulative and speculative statements! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u154	Thank you, Deputy Minister Nankov. Honourable Members, we are proceeding to a vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2019. Vote 169 MPs: 106, against 43, abstention 20. The proposal and the bill have been passed. Negative vote please, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I have many reasons to vote against the proposed amendments with the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, but I will mention only two of them. The first reason for this vote is that I do not believe a single word of Deputy Minister Nankov, spoken by this tribune. And I'll tell you why I don't believe it, because he told me a year ago of my question, he almost swore by this tribune that Stara Zagora would have an extension of the road, a speedy road, until his connection with the highway. In his words, this road should now be under construction and, at the latest, next March, it should be completed. He said he would pursue the commitments he made from this tribune and whether he was a minister or no longer in the government suggests that his successors would follow what he said. So far, this has not happened in Stara Zagora and anyone who travels to Stara Zagora can see it. Minister Nankov lied from this tribune then and now I have no reason to believe him that what he said will happen and we will have an effective March toll system. The other reason why I voted against is that, at least twenty questions to Minister Nankov and perhaps so much more to current Minister Petya Avramova for problematic roads in Stara Zagora, which urgently and urgently need repair, their answer was that they would be repaired when the system came into force and some large fees were collected, about 1 billion, and we would start repairing roads, including in the Stara Zagora region. Now, delaying six months of entry into the toll system means that by at least one year, not to mention more, we delay repairing these roads and there will be no money for them. I cannot accept this delay in any way, and I do not trust Deputy Minister Nankov and this government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Honourable Members, we proceed to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A LOCAL PRESENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, etc. 1 and 2 of the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-fourth National Assembly (prom., SG No. 32/2017) We are submitting a draft decision for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Please provide the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and acceptance in accordance with the established order. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.... Dragomir Stoynev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov, Vice-Presidents of the group. Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and a decision to adopt procedural rules for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-fourth National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Christian Ivanov Vigenin as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. [[Heckling]] Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 114 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mr. Vigenin. [[Applause.]] I believe that this choice will contribute to the promotion of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Bulgaria. We move on to the next item on the agenda. PROJECTS OF DECISIONS ON CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 88, in conjunction with art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are submitting a draft decision on changes in the composition of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Please provide the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and adoption in accordance with the established order. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition of the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies against the Grey Economy and Smuggling The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski, Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev and Dragomir Velkov Stoynev as members of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating Grey and Smuggling. 2. He elected Valentin Georgiev Lambev, Kristina Maximova Sidorova and Nikolay Krastev Boshkov as members of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Vote, honourable Members. Vote 94 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Dimitrov Andreev as deputy chairman and member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. He elected Ivan Valentinov Ivanov as Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 3. He elected Nikola Iliev Dinkov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I present to you the next draft decision to complete the composition of the Defence Committee: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Nikolov Vergiev and Lyubomir Boykov Bonev as members of the Defence Commission. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. Please, voting mode. Vote 104 MPs: 97 against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Draft decision on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Filip Stefanov Popov as Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. He elected Krum Kostadinov Zarkov as Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 3. He released Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 4. She elected Smiljana Nikolova Niva-Krusteva as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. Please, voting mode. They voted 99 MPs: 88, against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I present to you the text of "Project" DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Georgi Nikolov Vergiev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. 2. He elected Filip Stefanov Popov as Vice-President of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 98 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. "Project" DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Donka Dimova Simeonova as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Krum Zarkov. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: 100, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Christian Ivanov Vigenin as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. She elected Anna Nikolova Slavova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Dragomir Velkov Stoynev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Christian Ivanov Vigenin as a member and Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 2. He elected Dragomir Velkov Stoynev as member and Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 96, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Yanchev Gokov as a member of the Committee on Health. 2. She elected Anna Nikolova Slavova as a member of the Health Committee. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. Vote 99 MPs: 94 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION on a change in the leadership of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Yanchev Gokov as Vice-President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. 2. She elected Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva as Vice-President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Importers: Cornelia Ninova, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Krum Zarkov. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 86, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION amending the Commission's management on children, youth and sport The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva as Vice-President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev as Vice-President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Please vote. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to the next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Commission for interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He dismissed Anton Konstantinov as a member and Chairman of the Commission for interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. 2. He elected Georgi Yanchev Gokov as a member and chairman of the Commission for interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 97 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Anton Konstantinov Kutev as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Christian Ivanov Vigenin as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please vote. Vote 100 MPs: 92 against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I'm introducing the next one. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Ivan Dimov Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. 2. He elected Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: for 107, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Daniel Petkov Yordanov and Nikolay Dimitrov Penev as members of the Committee on Environment and Water. 2. He elected Anton Konstantinov Kutev and Ivan Dimov Ivanov as members of the Committee on Environment and Waters. Please, voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: 94, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Nikolay Asenov Tishev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Violeta Ruseva Jeleva as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 99, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski as Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee. 2. He elected Rumen Vassilev Gechev as Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. He released Lalo Georgiev Kirilov as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 4. He elected Nikolay Asenov Tishev as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please, voting mode. Vote 97 MPs: 86 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Stanislav Ivanov to replace a member of the permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Please, voting mode. Vote 101 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION filling in the composition of the permanent delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov as a member of the permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: 66 against 8, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u157	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u158	It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My request is to re-vote Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I will put the proposal to the vote again. They voted 86 MPs: 68 against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Let's go with the last one. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38, para. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov as the main representative and deputy head of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. Grants as replacement representative and elects as main representative and deputy head of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova. 3. He elected Georgi Yordanov Yordanov as the replacement representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this concludes the work on today's program. The next regular plenary session on 11 July 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
