ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, during its meeting yesterday, on 5 June 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism has decided to postpone the examination of the draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Port of Vidin. For this reason, a report cannot be submitted by the Commission's opinion on this project prior to its discussion. In this regard, I propose that the point of our Programme for this week "Project of a decision to privatize a part of the property of the Port of Vidin " Ltd., with an importer of the Council of Ministers, on 20 May 2019, should be dropped and the other points shall be renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 170 MPs: 168 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. There's a procedure for Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u2	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In relation to the forthcoming item six of the weekly programme, which is item two for today, namely the First Voting of Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, we are most strongly asking from now so that you have sufficient time to inform the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov to come to the Chamber and to attend, because this is an extremely important point which concerns him directly as Minister of Finance in connection with the redistribution of the party subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I'll inform Mr. Goranov and invite him to come to the court on this point. We're moving to point one for today: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH OF THE BASIC FOUNDATION. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE SITUATION, PROBLEMS AND PERSPECTIVES OF THE TRANSPLANTATION WORK IN BULGARIA. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova on 4 June 2019. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, to justify your request to the Minister of Health within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! By a decision of the National Assembly of 7 February 2019 concerning the discussions on the organization of the transplant treatment in Bulgaria, Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov and Valentina Naydenova, we commissioned the Minister of Health to make an analysis of the transplant activity in Bulgaria, current state, problems and perspectives, an action plan with scheduled specific tasks, expected results, deadlines and responsible authorities in order to become the Republic of Bulgaria a full member of the Eurotransplant and necessary changes in the Law on organ transplantation, tissues and cells and relevant regulatory acts, National Programme for Promotion of donation of organs, cells and blood products based on in institutional cooperation. In implementing this decision, the Minister of Health has submitted to the National Assembly a comprehensive document which has been provided to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly and the Minister has stressed that the preparation of the materials included in the decision requires time and coordination because a number of consultations with the competent specialists and the implementation of concrete actions are required. Thus, the proposed Project for a decision of colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) makes it impossible to discuss the material, because it is only provided to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly in order to really have the result of the questioning that they have made and the relevant draft decision. We have used the opportunity of the Rules, namely a hearing of the Minister of Health, so that he can give an explanation regarding the imported materials and allow the MPs to ask specific questions and express their attitude towards what the Ministry has prepared. I believe that this will be extremely useful because it is important that we not only make debates here, with the objectives being mainly political, namely in the sector of................. to seek solutions from which there are practical consequences in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and in the interests of Bulgarian law. In the attached documents provided by the Minister in the National Assembly there is a draft National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplants in the Republic of Bulgaria, a draft work programme under the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplantation in the Republic of Bulgaria, a draft standard for transplantation of solid organs, projects of standards, standard operating procedures. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I ask you to make a brief statement regarding the organisation and preparation of the materials you have provided to the National Assembly, what is your specific opportunity to take action in the coming months to specify both legislative initiatives and specific legislative changes in order to improve the Transplantation Program in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u5	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to address the subject matter of the hearing within 10 minutes. We're listening carefully, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the outset, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 7 February 2019, we conducted an analysis of the transplant activity in Bulgaria. With regard to transplantation as a treatment option, I think we all agree that it should continue to develop in our country. A number of specialists stress that transplantation has become a building block of modern medicine and gives hope for life to chronically ill patients. In developing this type of activity, we should always bear in mind that transplantation is a complex process that combines specific medical requirements and skills, strict standards and carries risks to the donor and recipient. The development of medical science and practice in the second half of the 20th century led to the transformation of organ, tissue and cell transplantation into established medical activity, which was successfully carried out in Bulgaria as well. The first organ transplants in Bulgaria are performed simultaneously with those in most European countries. The first successful kidney transplant of an adult in Bulgaria was carried out on 1 February 1969 by a living family donor in the hospital..................... by Professor Atanasov. The first heart transplant in 1986 was carried out by Professor Chirkov. The patient is a 13-year-old boy. The first liver transplant of a live donor child was performed in 2004 at Lozenets Hospital. The first liver transplant by a corpse donor was performed in 2005 in the hospital. Progress in medical science and health technology allowed successfully transplanting kidney, heart, liver in an increasing number of patients in Bulgaria. At the same time, transplantation also includes ethical issues related to donation consent, selection criteria, regulatory supervision, donation stimulation, as well as requirements for brain death. And here, of fundamental importance, is the role of the country, which should ensure that there is an adequate organisation of donation and transplantation to benefit citizens. Role of competent institutions and statistics. The mission of the Ministry of Health and the Executive Agency is to develop and maintain a modern national transplant system that meets the best medical standards to allow every needy Bulgarian citizen equal access to it, respecting all established legal and ethical norms adopted in modern developed societies. The national institution that manages, coordinates and controls the process of donation from donor detection to transplantation in the country is the Executive Agency of Medical supervision. The Agency shall supervise the activities of medical institutions and the quality of medical care and perform the functions of a competent authority in the management, coordination and control of transplants in the Republic of Bulgaria. As of the first quarter of 2019 in Bulgaria there are a total of 33 hospitals that have received a certificate from the Agency for the operation of the activity of finding and maintenance of corpse donors in brain death. A total of 7 are the certificates issued by the Agency to hospitals for organ transplantation. The currently registered transplant institutions in the country are: University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment Ekaterina, Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment for Emergency Medicine "Pyrogov", University Hospital "Lozenets" "Sofia," "Adjibadem City Clinic", Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "Tokuda", University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Marina "Varna" and Military Medical Academy "Sofia." The registrations of the Executive Agency "Medician supervision" show that since 2004, a total of 485 kidney transplants, 149 liver transplants, 58 heart transplants have been made. According to the Executive Agency, from the beginning of 2005 to the end of 2018 255 allergens and 877 autologous stem cell transplants were performed. During the period 2012 - 2018 the level of donation and transplants is relatively stable in the country. Moreover, statistics show that there has been significant progress since 2013 in the number of donors implemented. However, experts point out that the donation in our country is still insufficient. While the countries Austria, Slovenia, Italy, the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Ireland and Sweden have from 16 to 25 donors per million population, in 2018 the number of deadly donors in Bulgaria is 16. This represents 2.28 donors per million population. The countries, which, like the Bulgarian country, are also characterized by a relatively low level of donation, are Romania, Cyprus and Greece. The main reasons for the unrealized donors are the refusal by the donor's relatives to provide organs to the deceased and the presence of medical counterinductions. Experts also point to the low number of transplants performed in Bulgaria compared to the transplants carried out in European countries. The main reason for this data is the low level of donated organs. The situation requires that we continue to take measures that have the potential to create an appropriate organization of donation and transplantation. This organisation should include all important aspects of transplantation, including in the transplant process, the role of donor coordinators, the important place of media, hospital organisation in transplantation, pre-transplanting activities, transplantation and post-transplantation monitoring, training of specialists and analysis and control of transplant results. What measures have we taken? In order to respond to the presented challenges and to the need to create a clear and modern national organization in the field of transplants, the competent Bulgarian institutions have developed a National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplants in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2019 - 2023. In the preparation of the document, opinions were requested from experts in the field of transplantation. We would like to stress that the initial project covered pulmonary, renal, cardiac and hepatic transplantation. We are planning coordination of the document with specialists in the field of cellular transplantation, which will complement and enrich the National Program. The framework of the Programme project sets the strategic goal to improve the organizational model of organ donation and transplantation in the country. The directions that include the Programme and need to be followed are: 1. working with donor coordinators for their motivation for finding potential donors; 2. improvement of the organization in hospitals for higher efficiency in the activities of finding and realization of donors in brain death; and 3. promote the process of donation in society, among medical specialists. In order to achieve the strategic objective of the Programme, the following operational activities have also been identified: 1. effective management and coordination of the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and in support of Transplant 2019 - 2023; 2. effective involvement of medical coordinators and medical professionals in any hospital where a potential organ donor may appear; 3. activities for the detection and identification of a potential donor; 4. attracting public opinion on the need for donation. In this regard, we are preparing a national donor campaign. I want to show you one of the initiatives of this campaign. We've printed a map that's called "Yes for Life." [[shows it]] on which it is written that this card expresses your consent to be a donor. It has no legal value, however, it is a decision-making while a person is alive... whether he wants to be a donor or not. This, as I said, has no legal value, but will serve only the relatives, the family of the person who has shown his will when he is in a situation of brain death, his relatives and relatives to make a reasoned decision. This map will be distributed into the health system [[the President signals that time has run out]] and it can be obtained from any Bulgarian citizen, to be carried along with the identification documents; 5. conducting training to improve the organisation of all organ donation and transplantation activities; 6. establishing the possibility of using the information on hospitalized patients of the NHIF for the monitoring and control of donor and transplantation activities; establishing a link between the hospital reporting system to the relevant health cases and the software system of the Agency, NHIF and the Ministry of Health; 7. improving the processes of identification of donors; 8. improving the organizational system for the allocation and transport of donated organs in the most appropriate way for the successful result of the transplantation; 9. providing a 24-hour communication opportunity between coordinators and the Agency; 10. extension of the scope of transplants carried out; 11. selection and evaluation of patients for pulmonary transplantation, and 12. Monitoring and evaluation of activities under the Programme. An important point in the program is to implement activities in support of international cooperation with European clinics in relation to the treatment of Bulgarian citizens. Standards and standard operating procedures. The competent Bulgarian institutions developed projects of a standard for transplantation of solid organs, as well as projects of standard operating procedures. Standard operating procedures include, as an algorithm for the work of the donor team, donor situation, donor positioning, brain death, donor detection, selection of a particular recipient.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u7	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, our weather is bothering us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u8	Not a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u9	We're already overdue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u10	The draft standards include requirements of good clinical practice in the range of kidney transplantation, liver transplantation, pancreas transplantation, cardiothoracic transplantation, eye transplantation, transmissible infections. We plan to finalise the documents described above by the end of June, and then to take account of their implementation on an ongoing basis. We are currently analyzing the activities of coordinators and coordinators on the territory of the country, on which transplant activities depend. Clear rules and criteria will be prepared for their work and pay for their work. Further analysis and evaluation of the available material base in this field will be carried out in medical institutions, transplant centres and in medical institutions in the territory of the country where there are potential donor situations. In the Regulation on financial management of hospitals, we have reflected specific requirements for the managers of medical institutions regarding their commitment to the implementation of this activity and responsibility for managing the processes in the territory of medical institutions. We will give a periodic report on our work on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Agency. Thank you for letting me graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister, it was important to lay the basis for this conversation. From now on, the procedure provides for the possibility of asking questions from each parliamentary group. Answer to the question from the Minister immediately after his appointment. We begin with the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, please inform us briefly about the international actions taken by the Ministry of Health and the Executive Agency of Medical supervision in the field of transplants from the beginning of 2019 to the present date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u13	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, on January 25, 2019 in Sofia was signed an Agreement on qualification and training in the field of lung transplantation between Bulgaria and the Multiprofile Hospital (Vienna). The agreement will be reviewed by the Advisory Committee on Thoracic Surgery of the European Transplant and by the Board of Organisation in October 2019. Within the meaning of the Agreement on qualification and training in Bulgaria, the following team shall be established: - for the selection and evaluation of patients will be responsible Military Medical Academy; - for the provision of a lung will be responsible for the Executive Agency. - for transplant surgery and intensive treatment will be responsible for the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Ekaterina"; - for the long-term follow-up of patients will be responsible Military Medical Academy. Under the Agreement, Bulgaria sent in May 2019 four Bulgarian specialists from the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Ekaterina" and the Military Medical Academy "Sofia," for the first stage of training at the Vienna Academy of Lung Transplantation. The main goal was for Bulgarian specialists to acquire knowledge and qualification and to study Vienna's experience in the field of lung transplants. Since the beginning of 2019 preliminary medical examinations have been carried out on two Bulgarian patients. Their preliminary medical examinations were to assess their physical condition for transplantation in Vienna. It should be noted that the aid that Vienna can give to Bulgaria in relation to patients depends largely on the capacity and capabilities of the hospital itself. At the same time, on 27 May 2019, the Medical Supervision Executive Agency (Medical Agency) joined the Co-operation Agreement (Co-operation Agreement), the Foedus EEO IT Portal. The portal is built under a project funded by the European Commission in order to carry out a rapid and effective exchange of information in cases of organ surpluses or the search of organs for patients who are in a position to endanger their lives. Currently, 10 countries are active members of the Agreement. During the period from 1 June 2015 to 31 March 2017, 380 bodies were proposed through the portal and the greatest achievement was the implementation of 23 child transplants. On 11 June the fourth meeting of the Board of Agreement will be held, which will be attended by a representative of the Executive Agency. Today I will sign a letter to the Clinic of Pulmology at Hanover Medical University in order to study the opportunities for training of a Bulgarian team in the field of lung transplantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Is there a question, Professor Mikhailov? I didn't see the sign, so I asked the question a second time. Here you go, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, on 7 February this year this National Assembly gave you specific tasks, the first of which is to provide a detailed analysis of the problems and prospects of transplant activity in Bulgaria. In the document presented by you, there is no such detailed analysis on specific areas, financial justification, the readiness of the system for performing quality transplant activities in Bulgaria at all. My question to you is: when will you provide such a detailed analysis to the National Assembly to execute a decision of parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u17	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Dear Minister, please answer Dr. Timchev's question on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dr. Timchev, I don't know how much you appreciate the depth of the analysis we've presented. If you want any additional information, we can give you, but this analysis is done. Having in mind, however, the knowledge you have in this area, it may be necessary to set out additional specific things that you want to get as information, because this matter is very large and such a detailed analysis of any activity in great depth would require a lot of time and a lot of information that you will hardly have time to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u19	Colleague, you should read it. [[Shows material.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u20	I've read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u21	But if you have any specific requests and feel that somewhere in the analysis there are weaknesses, put them specifically, and I promise I will undertake to answer you in detail on each of the questions that you will further put. Otherwise, the financial analysis is done. There are financial estimates and these financial estimates will be laid down with the 2020 draft budget and the three-year budget forecast 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs? No question. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not represented in today's meeting. Will the Parliamentary Group have a question for the Minister? And you miss in that order. Are there any questions from the independent MPs? I don't see a sign. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u23	Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! Dear Minister, would you please inform us what the Ministry is doing, respectively you and your team, regarding the training was hinted at, but a little more specifically about the training of our specialists to work in the field of transplantology on local soil, on the territory of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the international context, our actions are primarily aimed at training our specialists in authoritative clinics, leading in this field, in Germany and in Austria. We will explore opportunities in other countries as well. Next week, I will be attending a meeting of the Council of EU Health Ministers in Luxembourg. There will be a number of working meetings with my colleagues on transplant issues. Our efforts will also focus on organizing the visit, presence and assistance of external transplant specialists for the implementation of the first lung transplants in Bulgaria. I hope that by the end of 2020 the first transplant will be carried out after the training period, of course, of our specialists and doctors abroad. There will be planning of a number of trainings in our country of coordinators and coordinators, specialists in relevant clinics and departments from all over the country who will be engaged in the mediating and realization of this activity. In order to realise the above intentions, we have taken action to find possible sources of funding that could be from the state budget, can also be with EU funds during the negotiations for the next planning period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The BSP group has the possibility of a second question. Here you are, dear Mrs. Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, Mr. Minister, I would like to draw attention to your position and the opinion of the Ministry regarding decentralisation in the conduct of transplants, and I would like to say why. I found out that 33 are medical institutions with certificates, seven are allowed to perform transplants in the country, the main part in Sofia and only in the country is Varna University Hospital "St. Marina." My question is: will Varna become, but not just the university hospital, but also St. Annas, for example, a second transplant center in the country? And more: do you predict for these seven centers and so-called post-transplant monitoring, because, you know, transplanted patients with organs and hematopoietic cells require strict control, and if necessary, treatment, do you foresee the development of modern immunology, robotic microbiology and all the means necessary for this patient follow-up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u28	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Klisarova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In my initial presentation, I have informed you that we are having conversations with individual clinics in European countries, especially in those countries that are members of the One of their requirements, however, is for these clinics to enter into specific arrangements with a specific team of specialists and not with multiple teams to participate in this training, which is also, of course, related to the possibility of transplanting organs of Bulgarian citizens. This is the beginning of our talks with two or three European clinics. I hope that these contacts will continue with other clinics in Europe, which will enable us to form teams in other major cities in Bulgaria, including Varna. This is a process that we will develop, enrich and hope what you have proposed will one day become a fact, but in any case there is some consistency in the development of our relationship with European transplant clinics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a desire for a question from the Parliamentary Group of United Patriarchs? I can't see. There is no change in the movement for rights and freedoms. The political party parliamentary group will also have no second question. Among the non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs, too. We have the opportunity to listen to the attitude of each parliamentary group within five minutes to the answers received and the minister's statement. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive information you have presented today for our attention. It is evident that in recent months your team has worked hard to find lasting solutions to the problems in the field of transplantation, for which I congratulate and admire you. The problems in the field of transplantation have been accumulated for many years and we are clearly aware that all of them cannot be solved in one or two months. I can not help but mention that one of the main problems not only in Bulgaria, but also worldwide, is the shortage of organs and this fact creates a number of other challenges for the health systems of the different countries, and for patients. I believe that the signed agreement on qualification and training in the field of lung transplantation between Bulgaria and the multiprofile hospital in Vienna is extremely important for improving the qualification of Bulgarian medical professionals and for improving the treatment and care for Bulgarian citizens who need transplantation. The preparation of Bulgarian doctors is at European and global level and we are obliged to do everything possible to create conditions for the development of their potential, professionalism in the name of the Bulgarian patient. The exchange programme is an extremely good start in this direction and I sincerely hope that it will be continued in the future. The provision of the necessary conditions for the conduct of transplants and the promotion of transplant activities in Bulgaria will enable our patients to receive their vital treatment without having to leave the borders of our country. On the other hand, the accession of the Medical Audit Executive Agency to the Cooperation Agreement and the IT portal will contribute to a rapid and effective exchange of information which, in turn, will improve access to organs for patients with life-threatening conditions. Next, it should be noted that the preparation and adoption of the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplanting in the Republic of Bulgaria is also a step in the right direction, as it is extremely important for the state policy to focus on the targeted and systematic development of transplantation and the related activity in promoting donation in the Republic of Bulgaria. Improving the organizational model of organ donation and transplantation in the country and increasing public awareness of the various aspects of donation and transplantation will help to increase the number of organ donors, respectively, of transplant bodies. The preparation and adoption of legislative changes in order to better regulate donor and transplant processes will also contribute to solving a number of existing problems in this area. I believe that, on behalf of all the Members of the National Assembly in this House, I can responsibly state that you will have our full cooperation and support in the adoption of these changes. Finally, I would like to congratulate you on what you have achieved so far, to wish you courage and success in implementing all the measures that you have presented today to our attention. Taking only legislative and administrative measures would not lead to the desired result, which is why I believe that the government's policy should also be aimed at informing the public that donation and donation are a highly humane and responsible act, as well as an act of empathy for transplant patients. I hope that colleagues from all parliamentary groups will not object if I say that you have our support and can always count on our assistance, because the health and well-being of Bulgarian citizens is a priority for all of us regardless of our political affiliation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. From the parliamentary group of BSP Professor Mihailov will express his attitude towards the answers of Mr. Minister. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u33	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I have listened carefully to your presentation of the problem, as well as Dr. Daritkova's questions and references. I believe that the National Assembly placed very clear tasks on you on 7 February. I do not want to respect them again, but I will tell you quite frankly that the stage of this hearing is to go directly through the National Assembly Chamber and not through the Health Commission with the participation of transplant specialists is deeply incorrect. This is just putting a lid on this problem and, unfortunately, as a boy who has participated in the entire transplant structure of Bulgaria, I tell you that nothing will come out of this way. As for the documents that you have presented us with great pain, having great respect for you as a person who has worked for the state for more than 20 years, I must tell you that, firstly, the so-called Programme that you present to us is the one that you presented before we put the matter in this National Assembly, and the other standard operating procedures have no place to discuss in this House. These are so basic rebars, we can't talk about transplants without them at all. In this regard, colleague Timchev is right that no thorough analysis has been carried out. You mentioned it, partly, but it wasn't done. You didn't have to do it, it had to be done by the Ministry of Health. What is the main thing in the lack of adequate transplant activity for Bulgaria, which is many times lower than in Europe, are two things: the lack of adequate funding of transplant teams and the lack of organization for knowledge of patients in brain and heart death really on the territory of the country. That's not in your analysis at all. [[GERB's line.]] It's gone, please, I read it very carefully, every page I've read. They're 90 pages, and I've read them all. This is the main analysis of what is the status of brain death in hospitals; when they are submitted to the headquarters, to the Executive Agency. And from this analysis, from these certificates given by you to 32 hospitals can be seen how many of them perform their tasks at all. This is missing in general, and there is something else that I took the liberty of talking to you about last night, and this is the evaluation of drug policy in transplant activities, which Professor Klisarova suggested to you. What is most offensive and most embarrassing to me, you said in person that this would change is that there is not a word in this program for cell transplantation. If Bulgaria meets in any way any requirements in Europe regarding transplant activity, it is in relation to cell transplants, and they are completely overlooked in this programme. I mean, this discussion, first of all, is in the audience of a lot of intelligent people, but people who have nothing to do with this very specific problem. It had to be held in the Health Commission, to make the necessary remarks and to participate transplant specialists such as Professor Vladov, who frankly told me that they had not listened to his recommendations. Professor Nachev told me he didn't get this program.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u34	Well, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u35	Well, I talked to him on Monday, and now we don't have to fight. All of this has to go its own way. From now on, we do not make events to take account of the activities of the National Assembly and you in a way that you are responsible for these requirements. Thus, it is not answered and I expect you as an intelligent person in the coming months to really make efforts for a very serious financial justification. Once again, I take the liberty of repeating two years ago to your predecessor we provided a programme of 10 million to reconstruct the cell transplantation centres because there are accreditation mechanisms in the European Union. If we don't respond to them, we'll drop out at all. Not to mention that in one of the main recommendations that have been given here are deadlines for entering the Eurotransplant. You know very well the so-called Istanbul Agreement, which has nothing to do with the Istanbul Convention, which monitors very seriously the problems of exporting transplant patients to the world. This limits Bulgaria's ability, if it does not develop this direction in medicine, to drop from the map at all as a country in which it is transplanted. That's why I can't take the mooring talk of my colleague Ivanov. Of course, any effort must be congratulated, but this is not a real effort at the moment. There is still much to be done and we will expect in the Health Commission, not to waste the time of the entire hall, indeed a real programme that meets the interests of the nation. Otherwise, everything remains on paper, and this does not want us Bulgarian citizens to want real action, because at any moment these problems and the citizens who are waiting for a transplant and it cannot be done stand before our face and our hearts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Dr. Popovski, please come in for consideration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u37	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We've heard a lot on the subject of transplants. We also heard a lot of criticism from the opposition. We see that, after all, there is work in this area, and not a little. Personally as a clinician doctor, I would like to give some advice to the Minister.. further attention should be paid to liver transplants, even if additional funding is needed, because those patients who reach liver transplants, unlike kidney transplants, cannot wait. The renal patient on haemodialysis may live for years and wait for the donor, but the patient with chronic aggressive hepatitis, which reaches a point where, if not transplanted as soon as possible, this patient is exitating. We should also pay attention to our good teams, which we have at the Military Medical Academy and at the Alexandrov Hospital in First Surgery, which can work clinically this model operations, however they are complex and very difficult, to finance additionally, to pay attention to these patients, otherwise we just lose them. Thank you for your attention. I hope for an even better development in this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u38	Doctor, thank you. Are there any other parliamentary groups willing to take note? I can't see. This concludes the work on the fifth point of the daily program. Hearing of the Minister of Health on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next point, point six. FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR POLITICAL PARTIES. The National Representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs on 16 June 2017 and the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2019. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u39	Colleagues, the Committee on Legal Affairs Report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a procedure for the admission of Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Diana Dragneva Director of the Department of Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u41	Please vote on the so-called tolerance procedure. 125 MPs voted: 78, against 40, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a moment ago, counterpart Philip Popov made a procedure for the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov to be present to enter the Chamber. I am now making the same procedural proposal, as we remind the Minister that the couloirs of parliament are not a press centre, and its place in such an important discussion is here in plenary, so we insist that Minister Goranov enter the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I have informed Mr. Goranov of the wishes of Mr. Popov and your parliamentary group. He has a commitment, but he has sent colleagues who are competent on the subject. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to brief us on the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u44	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, No 754-01-26, submitted by the National Representative Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs on 16 June 2017 and the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019. At its meeting held on 4 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, No 754-01-26, submitted by the National Representative Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of National Representatives on 16 June 2017, and a Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Diana Dragneva, Director of Legal Affairs and Mrs. Vanya Nusheva, expert in financing political activity. On behalf of the importers, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, No 754-01-26, was presented by Mr. Naydenov, who pointed out that it provides for a state subsidy to be granted only to political parties and coalitions that are parliamentary represented. The introduction of the change will lead to budget savings and their use in other state sectors. The bill amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Velkova, who noted that it proposed changes to specify the rules for the formation and distribution of the state subsidy, as well as to regulate relations in relation to the implementation of the Law in previous years. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u45	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u46	Mrs. Velkova added that no additional budget funds will be needed when the bill is adopted and budget savings will be made and subsidies will be fixed at the amount of 11 BGN. for the vote actually received by the party or the coalition. She pointed out that under the proposed change the total amount of state subsidy for political parties and coalitions in one year will be reduced by 6.5 million. BGN, as the economy would amount to 14,5 million. BGN, if this way of calculating the total amount of State subsidy for political parties and coalitions is to be allocated for the period from 26 May 2016 to the subsidy paid on 30 April 2019. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov. The MPs disagreed with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, No 754-01-26, noting that it does not match the achievements of contemporary democracy in the country. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he supports a Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers, but between the first and second votes, separate provisions should be refined. Mr. Zarkov noted that he would support a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, but expressed reservations about the methodology for subsidising political parties and coalitions. The Minister of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his support to the Bill, with an importer of the Council of Ministers. In response to the questions raised, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance indicated that the proposed amendments to the Law on Political Parties aim to create a consistent and coherent legal framework for relations relating to the formation, calculation and payment of the State subsidy for political parties and coalitions, introducing a clear model for the formation of the State subsidy, according to which the annual amount of the State subsidy is determined on the basis of the actual votes received by the respective rightful party or coalition, multiplied by the amount of one actual vote received, set out in the annual law on the state budget. After the discussion the Committee on Legal Issues with 1 Voice......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With 15 votes for the political party law, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u48	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019. At a regular meeting held on 30 May 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister; Mrs. Diana Dragneva Director of the Legal Department. The bill was presented by Mrs Velkova. The state subsidy in the Law on Political Parties is an important prerequisite for guaranteeing the independence of parties from corporate financing in order to secure their activities. The proposed amendments to the Law on Political Parties aim to create a clear, consistent and coherent legal framework of relations related to the formation, calculation and payment of the state subsidy for political parties and coalitions. A new, clear model for forming the state subsidy is introduced, according to which the annual amount of the state subsidy is determined on the basis of the actual votes received by the respective eligible party or coalition, multiplied by the amount for one actual vote received, as defined in the annual law on the state budget. An explicit framework has been proposed for the calculation of the amount of the State subsidy in the years of the production of parliamentary elections in which the current legal requirement to grant the annual subsidy into four equal instalments is objectively not feasible. An explicit framework is given for the calculation of the state subsidy for political parties and coalitions in the years of the production of parliamentary elections and the planned expenditure under the central budget will be indicative. With § 2, para. 1 of the Bill provides for transitional arrangements to form the amount of the State subsidy for the period from 26 May 2016 until the entry into force of the amending law. It is envisaged that the annual state subsidy of political parties and coalitions for the period from 26 May 2016 until the entry into force of the Law will be recalculated, with the reduction being at the expense of subsequent instalments, and in case of a shortage/lack of further instalments to be reimbursed by the party concerned. With this proposed legal framework, the costs of subsidising political parties and coalitions will be reduced by 6.5 million. lv. in annual amount, which will result in budget savings, in the results of the last parliamentary elections. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are we gonna have the importer's motives? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. Please, fellow Members, come in for a speech. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, the National Assembly is referred to by a problem which was not identified by institutions or control bodies or by political parties or by political actors, but by the media. And that's quite indicative. Even more prominent is the way in which different authorities and institutions reacted. How the institutions reacted when they realized that instead of 11 levs, as recorded by law, parties received subsidies from more than 13 levs.? The Ministry of Finance rushed to reject any guilt. He said the law was guilty, it wasn't clearly written. The Council of Ministers has tabled a speedy bill, which we are looking at now, whose sole purpose is actually to confirm this hypothesis that it is not the administration's fault, it is not the Ministry's fault, but the Law is unclear. Only adequate as if the D.A. reacted. It forms a check and draws its conclusions, which make the ones set out in the motives of the bill that we are looking at. The law, you see, was vague. It says that an actual vote is due to 11 leva. What is unclear in these words: received from a political party a voice of 11 BGN.? And the only formula that should come out of this thing is that if you get 1 million votes, they multiply by 11 and you have a subsidy of 11 million. lv. Even if we say that because it is regulated in two different legal acts, is the Law on Political Parties and the Law on State Budget, in the letters, in the text of the Law to say that there is some ambiguity, is there even a drop of doubt as to what the lawmaker's will on this issue was? One of the most frequently discussed issues both during the budget and at all. Is there any doubt about anyone that the legislator wanted to rule 11 leva? for every vote received for the party that received it? Why, though, does it have something else to do with it? Why is there some formula that goes beyond those 11 levs?? From the explanations and debates in recent days, I come to a few conclusions and will ask, naturally, to take an attitude. In the words of the President of the Budget Committee in the Parliament Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and Mr. Kirilov, Justice Minister, it seems clear that there has been a confusion between the way the subsidy is determined and the way the mandates are allocated in relation to the result. In one case, complex mathematical formulas are applied with the so-called system "Hareney." A remainder is distributed to determine these votes against the pre-solicited 240 seats, or 17 as they were just a while ago, but this has absolutely no bearing on the way the subsidy is determined because it leads to the distorted result of unsolicited votes being considered a party for which they have not been submitted. And in itself, this delusion is quite scandalous and inexplicable. The second problem comes from the famous box. I do not support anyone. It was introduced by an amendment to the Election Code of 26 May 2016. That is why, I think, the bill we are looking at returns to that date the way things will be distributed and revalued. The square is not supported by anyone and is also distributed to receive a subsidy. The perverse result is that people who have gone to express their deliberate disapproval to any party actually finance them. And this is even more inexplicable because, when this debate was held here in the previous edition of Parliament, the question was raised. It was put in place by the MP Danail Kirilov, who from this tribune makes a correction in one of the texts that we are looking at today, with the explicit statement: I am making this amendment so that it does not result in the box being considered to be the allocation of the claim. Once he says this thing here and all of you, our previous colleagues, many of you are still here, voting on it, the Ministry of Finance is starting to do the exact opposite and distribute it. Today, the Minister of Finance didn't respect us with a presence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u51	The Deputy Minister is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u52	The Deputy Minister is here. I asked two questions to the Deputy Minister, who was also at the meeting of the Legal Commission and asked her: "Why exactly 26 May 2016? I was answered not by her, but by the Minister of Justice that this is related to some statute of limitations. I ask you to come here and tell me what statute of limitations we are talking about, first, because I found no such three-year limitation anywhere; and secondly, what statute of limitation we are talking about, since the obligation to pay back the money will arise from the time of the adoption of this law. An explanation is not a statute of limitations, it can't be. And the answer I was given to the Legal Commission was incorrect. I have to say this because each one of you has to make your informed decision. I also asked another question: was the subsidy considered in the same way before and after the sacred date of May 26? I was answered that in the same way the 2001 subsidy was considered never changed. Yes, but in the letter sent by the Administrative Prosecutor's Office to the Minister of Finance, it is stated... It is on the Prosecutor's Office's website, it is accessible. So prosecutors who have carried out the inspection say: "It is clear from the verification that this incorrect practice for determining and allocating annual subsidies covers the period 26 May 2016 to today. So before that, there was another practice. I'm saying all this because the chair of the Legal Committee is here. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, please note that when people from the administration come to answer our questions in the Legal Commission, it is to help us make the right decisions, not to mislead us intentionally or inadvertently. And they're responsible for that. When we talk about responsibility, of course, there are different types of responsibility, one is administrative, possibly criminal, there are other authorities working on cases, the other is political. If we look closely at what the D.A. said, we will see that essentially the Minister of Finance has done his job, his order was correct. She wasn't properly executed. But I ask: why did he refuse to declare this truth that there was a mistake in the way the Law and the corresponding commandments were applied, and he began to assert and concern us with meaningless laws, such as the one we see that everything was fine in the Ministry, however, you see, the Law was unclear. Unclear laws have been passed, but that's not it! And I will refer again to the prosecution's investigation and the letter that has been announced. This state of affairs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I quote what is pointed out in the relevant report note: The error made in the formation of the total amount of funding of political parties is due to a delusion. "It is not because of the wrong law, but because of the misconception. That is why we also raised the question of his political responsibility. The issue is also raised about the political responsibility of the Council of Ministers in general, insofar as the Law we are dealing with is being prepared and signed by them. The Council of Ministers has a bearing on both what laws it makes and how individual departments apply them, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you can offer today and have already offered 1 BGN. a subsidy, but if you think it's 5 or 6 it doesn't really matter. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u54	Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for your speech. My reply to you is: if the Law for you as a political party has been clear, why is it under art. 30 Each party shall designate a specific person or persons responsible for the party's revenue, expenditure and accounting.. Your reference to the Ministry of Finance shall correspond to the amount they have determined to transfer to you as a party? And if I would use your vocabulary that you said, who was the perv of your political party, I use your words that sent this information to the Ministry? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Popov, second line please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Zarkov, I agree with everything you have said, but you have missed something and this is again shown in the letter in question to the prosecution, where the conclusions say the following. And here we are talking about the political responsibility of the Minister of Finance. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is written: to take the necessary measures and to create the necessary organisation to improve and control the implementation of the activities of the respective Directorates. In order to prevent such cases from happening in the future and to improve risk management, the correct and legal possibilities for the introduction of control procedures, methodologies, mechanisms and means shall be applied. The Minister of Finance under art. 27 of the Law on Political Parties, as well as Article 27 of the Law on Political Parties. 12, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act, has this obligation with regard to the control and administration of the expenditure of the budget. He has not carried out that control in this case and should therefore bear his political responsibility. [[GERB lines.]] And this is clearly and categorically written in the letter of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u57	That's a statement, Mr. Popov. What's the line to Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u58	My line was that it was neglected to show that the Minister of Finance had failed to implement his statutory control and therefore we want him to have the political responsibility granted by resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen replicating! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, first of all, I want to point out that when I talk about the perverse effect of something we wanted to do, and it's the opposite, it's not like I'm talking about perverts. In one case someone is offended, and in the other case it is explained how a reverse, vicious effect has been achieved. It's not right to play with those words. I'll answer the question specifically. All the actions and letters that we exchanged with the Ministry of Finance, as well as all the people who went to talks there, followed strictly the instructions of the Minister of Finance. At the beginning of 2017, an employee appointed by the party headquarters went there explicitly to ask why such a difference was made? And if we're guilty, it's that we didn't insist on more explanation and do our own inspection. That he was convinced that, you see, it's okay, it's not surprising. In the last 5 days, all of us have been told by the Minister of Finance, through prominent MPs, that the Law is okay and should have been. Well, it's not okay! It wasn't supposed to be like this! They say that, except for BSP, the institutions of the institutions in question. So do not try to further mask the problem, as this bill is an attempt to transfer it to someone else. You see, the BSP was guilty! It is not BSP guardian of the state treasury, it is GERB! There has been a mistake and I cannot understand what has brought us together today a Law that we will support because this conversation must continue, it has brought us together to cover our mistakes or to correct them and make a clear enough debate that they do not repeat themselves. Because the issue is extremely sensitive to Bulgarian citizens. This is not about two, five or eight levs, but about the already undermined trust in the political system and representative democracy, whose speakers are the parties. We've done a great deal of damage. You have to understand that! This damage will not be cancelled by either sweeping the present issue or by an additional dose of populism. Just because you don't fall on your back doesn't mean the whole democratic system doesn't turn its back. That's the problem! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing this procedure because here two months the Rules have been strictly observed. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . Only two days have been here since yesterday, and the old practice has begun. Colleagues, you are not at your captivity or congress to violate regulations, laws. There's a law here. Follow him! It's written, you voted it out. What example do we set for people? Here, the blades of your party, as they say, young people don't know what it's about... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u63	To me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u64	Was that just a line? [[Heckling]] No, I'm not talking about the back, I'm talking about your colleague's line. That wasn't a line. [[Heckling]] You don't know what a line is, do you?! Read, learn, it's written.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u65	Is this a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u66	To me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u67	Yes, it's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u68	The way you're holding it, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u69	I'm not addressing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u70	Mr. Velchev is talking to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u71	I'm talking to the Chairman. I told her to be strict. Let him know that the violations will begin again from now on. Therefore, let us observe the tradition in parliament, observe everything, and follow the Law, not against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. I'll follow the rules strictly. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Let's return the debate to the texts of the Law. What does the Law on Political Parties, which selectively quotes us as the pre-speaker, say? Article 25, para. 2: The total amount provided for in the budget shall be allocated in proportion to the actual votes received by each party and coalition. What is the total amount to be distributed proportionately? Article 27: The total amount foreseen for subsidizing political parties and coalitions shall be determined annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, depending on the number of real votes received by 2016. In the last parliamentary elections, for which one vote is envisaged a subsidy of an amount fixed annually in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. "I repeat: depending on the actual votes received in the last parliamentary elections! This is the total subsidy, which is then allocated according to the actual votes received by the so-called right-wing parties and coalitions, namely those represented in Parliament and those outside it, but received more than 1% of the actual votes. This is a text which has been a fact and has not been amended under this law since 2005, and under the previous Law on Political Parties, the text has been exactly the same since 2001. In this way, the subsidies of all parties and coalitions have been distributed throughout the whole time, and colleagues on the left during all these years have been here, in this Parliament, and have received respectively the part which is due to them from the subsidy determined by the order of art. 27. What happened in 2016? In 2016, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Election Code and said that the ballot introduced the so-called box "I do not support anyone." Until then, this box never existed. And the one who didn't support anyone usually went to vote just couldn't. In the course of the debates on the Election Code in 2016 in the Transitional and Final Orders Mr. Danail Kirilov, who was quoted very correctly by the previous one, of this tribune proposes a change, namely in art. 27, which I have just read to you, to add.. Let me read: The total amount envisaged to subsidize political parties and coalitions is determined annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, depending on the number of real votes received, a supplement from the parties and coalitions, in the last parliamentary elections, and for each vote received a subsidy of an amount fixed annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The real votes received from parties and coalitions are added. In his very speech Mr. Kirilov, as you rightly quoted here, justified this proposal for the sole purpose of the actual votes mentioned in the box, I do not support anyone not to participate in the determination of the total amount of the subsidy. This means, however, that the actual votes cast for other parties and coalitions that fail to cross the barrier for parliamentary representation, or parties that fail to cross the barrier of 1%, are included in the total real votes and thus determine the total amount of subsidies multiplied by BGN 11 in the case. In accordance with art. 25, para. 2 is allocated to the so-called rightful parties and coalitions, proportionate to their actual votes. That's it! [[Heckling]] Of course there's no violation. If we believe that there is, I would rather say a technical error, it is that since 2016, the part of the actual votes mentioned in the box is not excluded, I am not in favour of any party or coalition. In fact, most of these votes were cast precisely in the last parliamentary elections, i.e. those of the colleagues who are represented here, for their parties, while in 2016. In the elections for the forty-third parliament, these votes are very few, negligible. The amount of the subsidy is actually technically incorrect. It is calculated as the actual votes referred to in the box "I do not support anyone" are included in the total amount of the actual votes. This total amount has been increased with them, but not therefore, which is why you are all the time talking about that the actual votes cast for the other parties and coalitions should not have been included in the total amount, because this is the text of the Law, which, ladies and gentlemen, rather you on the left, because the others neither since 2001, nor since 2005 have been in this Parliament, and which has not been changed since. [[Heckling]] No, it's not your fault! It's just the text of the Law. Now the question is: is there confusion? Why is there a mix-up? I think the confusion should be divided into two. There is a technical error in calculating the actual votes for the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Fact! For me, there is no error in the implementation of the Law and the redistribution of the actual votes submitted to other parties and coalitions. [[People's representative from BSP for Bulgaria................................................................................................]] You'll have a chance, don't pick up that card. You're distracting me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u74	Second line is you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u75	Another argument. At the direction of the National Assembly in 2011, the Court of Auditors made a special audit of the Law on Political Parties and the subsidies received. In the Court of Auditors' audit report 2011, when the words "partys and coalitions" are not available, there is no open violation in this direction. There's no way to find out because the text of art. 27 is clear and any self-respecting lawyer, and not a lawyer who reads legal documents, can interpret it. What, though, happens to the Bulgarian Socialist Party and rather to the coalitions that it forms in the respective national meetings? The thesis of the colleagues, which we heard in the media yesterday and that day, as was expressed by the previous one, is that, you see, the only fault is the Minister of Finance, who has not had control but has received the money, neither onion eats nor onion smells, which is called nor can divide or multiply, all the more so that there is a coalition agreement under a member of the Law, which they annually present to the Minister of Finance for the way in which the subsidies of the parties involved in this coalition agreement must be translated. There is the same amount allocated on the basis of the actual votes received in the last parliamentary elections. Mr. Krum Zarkov here before me said that, you see, an employee from BSP went to the Ministry of Finance, entrusted with this task under the Law, of course, and they gave him the sum. This was in 2017. Well, 2016 has this employee been there again?! The amount is the same, the same is the Coalition Agreement. We can get you 10 of these back in time, because you've been a coalition for a long time since you've been here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u76	We're like you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u77	So, BSP is our onion eater, nor onion smeller. They got three leva, you see, as they say now, more, but let them know. Because some minister from the Ministry of Finance went to some other employee at the Ministry of Finance, and he told him one amount, and that amount was out of control by the Minister of Finance! We're talking about unserious things, aren't we, colleagues?! [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] And since the public opinion and the layer is such, it's no coincidence that we introduced this bill. Its aim is to make the texts very clear and consistent, so that, meeting the expectations, parties and coalitions represented parliamentaryly, and parties that received over 1%, receive a subsidy in the amount of only and only for the actual votes submitted for their party and coalition in the last parliamentary elections. This is the proposal in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Political Parties, which we are looking at today. And I say again: this will make it clear now and there will be no different readings from different institutions or free electrons of the texts of the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. First said Mr. Popov, then Mr. Milkov, then Mr. Lazarov. Or perhaps Mr. Lazarov and Mr. Milkov to alternate the parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u79	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, and GERB received how much money after 2016? Why Boyko Borisov and as Prime Minister did not return the money you received over those 11 levs.? It's nice to wave these documents around here, but why didn't you bring them back?! What did the United Patriarchs do, Willia and all the other political forces? And it's absurd to blame any political power, of course, mostly BSP, because we've learned that we're probably responsible for the ozone hole too, in your opinion, for the fact that the Ministry of Finance hasn't done its job. Because by 2016, after your change in the box, I don't support anyone, the law has been clear. It is also clear after 2016 for the Minister of Finance, who issued an order, according to the Prosecutor's Office, which was clear. However, she has misled the Director of the Directorate, who wrote it in the Reporter from the same, and now because she has misled the Director of the Directorate, the Minister of Finance has not committed his obligation by law to carry out control, you are changing the Law. Why are you changing it? Was there no political parties before 2016, no coalitions, no MPs and no parties that received more than 1%?! There was, but there was no GERB with the box. I didn't support anyone and the Minister of Finance. Because here, when we talk about morality, dear lady... colleague, but Mr. Borisov's morality extends only to the apartments. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u80	Mr. Popov, please! Please! Please, Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u81	The frames are over there. When it comes to highways, fences, state budget, there is: "Vladi, we don't give you up! " - Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u82	Second line, Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u83	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! Because you quoted art. Art. 25, Art. 27, and you said that art. 25 says among which parties and coalitions participating in the last elections, which have elected Members of the National Assembly, plus below in the following paragraph, it is said: The parties who are more than 1% and have elected Members of the National Assembly and in art. 27, as you rightly pointed out, it is said that the subsidy is allocated to the actual votes of the parties and coalitions involved in the elections. Article 27 does not talk about whether they have elected, whether they have elected MPs, which you rightly noted. Since there is talk of reading legal norms and you have started this, you still need to read from end to end legal norms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Third line, Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u85	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I raised my hand and could not get it down, because until two years ago I was wondering how the National Assembly adopted these texts, I am now witnessing exactly how it is happening. I will then make a statement on the substance of the text. What you're doing right now is so wrong what you've been reading that I hope there are few people, lawyers and thinkers who've heard you because it's a total embarrassment what you've done. Absolutely! How can we claim that a party subsidy is given and is calculated to all those who have received votes, and these amounts are included in the number and it is distributed?! Well, that's not true. You read the text, and I had prepared it to read it to everyone, how unnecessary this legislation is. It's so unnecessary! Because in the current text of art. 27, para. 1, which you carefully read before pressing the button I ask you everyone to read it, writes: Well, what is it? Is it someone who's been given to you? Received from them. And here the little kids have already found out, and every person knows that they get 11 leva. for one vote received. This interpretation that you have made, I simply accept that it is manipulative because you know the Law, you can probably interpret it. Don't do that! Anything from anywhere to suck, so that one solution can be justified, which, first of all, is unnecessary... [[People representatives Dimitar Lazarov and Menda Stoyanova are speaking.]] I'm making a line for you right now. I don't know if you'll be able to answer me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u86	Mr. Lazarov! Mr. Lazarov, leave Mrs. Stoyanova alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u87	And two. The very legislative decision you are adopting, first of all, that it is unnecessary, secondly, is wrong. The text at the moment is absolutely, absolutely clear: for one received vote With this constant touch on these bills, we're in this hall. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Hole, Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u89	I don't know who reads the devil's gospel, who reads anything else, but... Dear colleagues, if the will of the National Assembly, which in 2016 changed the text of art. 27 The effective votes received.. by adding from the parties and coalitions of the last parliamentary elections.... was the same as the previous ones, so the National Assembly should have written: the real votes received from the parties and the coalitions under art. 25 and under art. 26 "To make it clear that we are talking about the actual votes received by the parliamentary represented parties, which have MPs, this is what is said in art. 25, para. 1, as well as the parties that received over 1%. That's gone! And when we talk only about parties and coalitions that participated in parliamentary elections, it is about everyone, regardless of which of them, according to art. 25 or 26 will be entitled to a grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct. We have missed this procedure, especially you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u91	Mrs. Chairman! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I assumed that the colleague from GERB, who just took the floor in the way of conduct, would beat me to it and he would take it to make another remark to you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u92	It sounds better to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u93	...do not observe the Rules of Procedure and do not know what a line is. You just made such a remark to us. Now Mr. Lazarov made the same line as Mr. Popov: something has been missed! In the same way Mr. Popov said it, but we were accused that we didn't follow the law because we weren't here and we weren't used to it. Please, if for you the law is one, for us is another, it is probably the way and style of your behavior, of your management. That's not the law! The law must be common to all and respected by all, and not viewed through the magnifying glass of personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u94	Mr. Ermenkov, since I let Mr. Popov speak not as a line, I gave Mr. Lazarov the opportunity to say the same. Please, colleagues! A statement? Ah, you have a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise, lines and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u95	There can't be a declaration during a discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! I will stop for a moment this heated dispute about party subsidies and the parties I am sure we will resolve wisely, and I will try to put your attention to the country which, I think, you will conveniently try to silence, but I want to put it before you, before the government, before the Prime Minister and before the Bulgarian people. Three words to put your attention to anxiety, replacement and responsibility. A warning from the fact that yesterday the government of Boyko Borisov, but through it and Bulgaria, received two very sound European slaps. The Dutch Foreign Minister said they didn't want us in Schengen because of corruption, directly and openly. He said that the prime minister showed him pictures of the fence, but Europe no longer believes pictures and says: "Because of your corruption and corruption of this government, we do not want you in Schengen. At the same time came out the European report the so-called European semester 2019. And here I put the second word to your attention. That's how. This is the worst report Bulgaria has received since we are a member of the European Union. There has never been such a heavy, analytical, critical report on all sectors of Bulgaria's life. Where's the replacement? Mr. Borisov: Business environment in Bulgaria is one of the best in Europe. The European report: Business environment in Bulgaria is weak. Corruption is chasing investors. Education. Mr. Borisov: For education we give money without thinking about it. "Europe: Bulgaria does not invest in its education, especially primary and secondary, and the results are low. Health care. Mr. Borisov: "We are giving more and more money for health care and it is getting better." "Europe: The Bulgarians have limited access to health care, no doctors, no nurses. Direct payments from patients are the highest in Europe. Smuggling the big pride of Mr. Borisov, all of these are quotes, colleagues, it is almost gone: We have dealt with the smuggling and we have missed it. Investments. Mr. Borisov claims:..We open every day factories..... even two a day began to open them................. and those who discovered them again two years ago............................... and the investments are growing....................................................................................................................................................................................... What does Europe say about this? Corruption, regulatory regimes, insufficient labour are an obstacle to investors leaving Bulgaria. Let's get to the point about the nearby companies that BSP has been talking about in recent years. See how Brussels values you, esteemed managers: The frequent use of direct procurement and the large number of single offers are a threat to the transparency and effectiveness of the system in public procurement. And I come to the most painful question for us, and I hope for you, too, incomes and inequality. Europe says that the rate of poverty and social exclusion in Bulgaria is 32.8% above the average level of the European Union. How does our responsible prime minister respond to this, remind you? The Bulgarians became rich and took vacations, so they are in Greece. Inequality. Europe says: "The incomes of the richest in Bulgaria - 20% - are 7.7 times higher than those of the most employed - 20%, and this is among the highest levels in the European Union. " Instead of worrying about this question, our prime minister answers: "The socialists want to take from the rich and give to the poor. And his greatest pride is that the roads in which millions have sunk, from which many have stolen, have been appreciated by Europe so: the scope and quality of the transport infrastructure in Bulgaria remains below the average for the European Union and the scope and quality. So, fellow Members, I come to the third word for responsibility. Ours, the BSP for Bulgaria and the opposition, is to name these problems, to criticize them and to offer them an alternative. Have we done our job? Three years we name them, and what we have received from the other side: the Socialists sow hatred, gall; they are people who are preparing a coup; they want the legal government to be overthrown. Did we offer an alternative? We offered here from the stands and in our program for development of Bulgaria. Where is your responsibility now?! That's ours. We've done our job. Where is your responsibility? Mr. Borisov did not find the courage to walk through that door today and to stand before us. I'm sorry you didn't, because those things I was gonna tell him in his eyes and ask for answers. Dear Mr. Borisov, why have you brought the state to this state for 10 years? And this is not only an assessment of the Bulgarian Socialists, but of your partners in Europe. Why didn't you admit your mistakes for 10 years? Why didn't you accept the alternative for 10 years and where are you taking Bulgaria? We continue on Europe's assessments to be the poorest, most corrupt, without access to health care, with poor education, with poor infrastructure. We want answers! And we want political responsibility from this government and this majority, and you know how it is worn. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We'll continue the debate. Any other speeches, colleagues? On behalf of a parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Markov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, welcome to the National Assembly! [[Applause from GERB.]] This is what we say on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, not from courtesia. We say this because, on the 30th year of democracy, we must undoubtedly validate this parliamentary democracy, which in 1990 voted 92% of the Bulgarian voters. It is your right to leave Parliament, another topic is whether you had a cause. There was no cause for us. The engine vote wasn't a cause. It was also seen on Sunday that it was not used anywhere in Europe. It was also seen that with engine voting GERB defeated you. I always thought you were the MPs of all Bulgarian citizens. It's the Constitution, and that's why I'm glad you're here. Recently in a coffee shop I met your MP and he asks me: "Do we miss it?" I told him frankly: "Do you miss it" because today it is obvious that with you parliamentary life is becoming more interesting. We hear your word, and now you hear ours. You are right that you find poverty in Bulgaria that we are last and so on. Exactly, because we are the 30th year of democratic change, we have to say that there is no way we can be in the first place after Bulgaria left in 1990 with a huge false start. Unlike Czechoslovakia, which had not yet divided into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Hungary and Poland, we left with a false start. For ten years, we have been fighting in this building in the Grand and Next National Assembly, will there be communism, or democracy? Unlike the peoples of Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary, you have been greatly benefited. Our people voted for you. I accept this vote, although Professor Konstantinov says: The elections were manipulated. You won the Grand National Assembly with an absolute majority and if we wanted to, we couldn't stop you. The second time the Bulgarian people chose you by an absolute majority and wanted to, we could not stop. The result was a lamentable two national catastrophes. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because there are young MPs to hear that they were extraordinary national catastrophes. To get your country to have no cotton, no aspirin, no bread, no sugar, no medicine, no gasoline, to have to make a national strike in poor Bulgaria in order to be removed from power that in no other socialist country has happened. It's a national strike! Perhaps President Radev also paid attention to the fact that the planes stopped flying. [[Applause from GERB.]] Civil aviation has stopped flying. Second time Mr. Videnov, absolute majority. Nobody's bothering you. Make reforms, fix this country of ours. You've driven us so far as to set the parliament on fire. I was a constitutional judge from Dr. Zhelev's $7 salary quota. Well, how is it that after these two national catastrophes, without being an economist, an economy is made to catch up with Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians and Poles? Ten years of fighting communism or democracy, until finally candice, thank God, honor makes you proud that you are also for the European Union, honor you that you are for NATO and so on. You quoted the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here I will allow myself, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to include one of my observations, one of my findings. I have earned this right because I have been in this Chamber in the Grand National Assembly, elected majority, then in the Thirty-sixth National Assembly, and I am pretty much a doyen "nine years constitutional judge." The statements of the Dutch Foreign Minister yesterday are insulting. He waved his finger and taught us. He talks a lot about what he wanted to hear and the Dutch people to know. Of course, Minister Zaharieva can't help but speak politically. She is Minister of Foreign Affairs. Of course, Prime Minister Borisov cannot fail to speak correctly, but I can speak politically improperly. With full reason I can as a European citizen who voted in both these European elections and as a Bulgarian MP to say that I am concerned about the Netherlands, about the Dutch people, because in Bulgaria there has not been a single terrorist to shoot with a machine gun like in the city of Utrecht to kill peaceful citizens, because of which the party "Forum for Democracy" Bode scored five MPs and ruined the number of this Dutch prime minister who came to Bulgaria to tell us that he really liked this man. That he's a man, that's what he said. So we're worried about Holland. In Bulgaria, it is safe with the fence and with the security of the citizens, they do not shoot people on the trams. I'm very concerned, honourable colleagues, and I hope you, too, about Dutch justice much more than ours, because ours is such a sadist, a terrorist and a murderer will not let him out of jail shoot people. Therefore, not to teach us democracy, the Dutch foreign minister, but to fix the Netherlands. [[Applause from GERB.]] And as I will return to the politically correct speech, I read a report by a European institution. This Brussels institution is leaving the European Parliament and the European Commission. You're gonna ask me, what are we gonna remember it with? I'll tell you what I remember it with: I remembered it by pushing Bulgaria to accept the Istanbul Convention and the Migration Pact, which our government held back and you, honor you, were also against. The term of office of these bodies ends. Great Britain is out, migrants inside. That's it! Great Britain out, migrants inside! Therefore, let the European institutions be a little more modest when they judge Bulgaria. I will say, quote, because I am still well with memory, only in the last two months the marks for the Bulgarian Prime Minister: Angela Merkel: at Germany's meeting, the former Yugoslav republics, publicly in front of all the leaders, presidents and prime ministers of the former Yugoslavia, with a high voice Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, who still won the elections in Germany, said: "Thank you to Borisov. Danke, Borisov, for making the Western Balkans move towards the European Union. [[Heckling]] What does the president of Brother Serbia Vučić say? I want Boyko to come too. What does Tsipras say? He said, "Boyko, you can also lead the UN." [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] That's what Tsipras says. If you don't believe me, I'm not lying, you can read. What does Zaev say? Without Borisov, there would be no Greek treaty with Macedonia. Boyko, here's my medal and you gave him the medal. I don't reward Borisov. Albanian Prime Minister: You are Merkel in the Balkans. Erdogan: Come, my friend, let me tell you and tell you how they wanted to kill me. The President of France Sarkozy: Boyko, I want to look like you! You're a born winner! [[Radio.]] Says Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president. [[Applause from GERB.]] And since you talked a lot about grades... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u99	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u100	It's funny, but it's true. It's good to see you, too. I am glad that you are happy because this is Bulgarian Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB.]] One day, God forbid, you take the power and so well present yourselves, and we will be glad because we are Bulgarians. Because you talked a lot about grades. I and Mrs. Ninova often talk in the couloirs, think alike about national sovereignty, when the Party of European Socialists crushed them to adopt certain acts and introduce gender ideology in Bulgaria. A sovereign state, and we are, there is no doubt that our membership in the European Union does not result in a complete loss of ownership. 4 of the Lisbon Treaty, everyone can invoke their constitutional identity. In the sovereign state the assessments give them the Bulgarian people, and thank God. In so many years, there are no more typical elections than those for a national parliament and those for a European Parliament. To the presidential majority, you can find a general, stand behind him, a party boy, not participate with your candidate and say you won. To the locals who are about to fight in the cities, others in the villages, third in ethnic regions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On the party lists, however, is different and see your results, see the voice of the people and God: GERB BSP in the parliamentary elections with 4 to zero, GERB BSP in the European elections [[Applause from GERB.]] On Sunday, Bulgarian voters gave a vote of confidence to the Bulgarian government. Your political right was to try this vote, to make it a vote of no confidence of the government: We will remove them GERB! Brothers and sisters, vote! They'll go away! Well, the Bulgarian people voted for GERB, so don't leave the parliament anymore. It doesn't make sense. We'll be together by 2021. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Any other affidavits? Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u103	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u104	It's procedure and it's a question. My question is this: is this anti-European position, GERB position, or Georgi Markov? Please respond. Here is the chairman of the parliamentary group, and you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u105	This is not a procedure, Mr. Popov. You can ask your questions on the sidelines. We'll continue the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Members of the National Assembly, please take your seats in the Chamber. Quaestors, invite the MPs. Colleagues, I first put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties, No 754-01-26, submitted by Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs on 16 June 2017. Vote 166 MPs: 9 against 80, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2019. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY TO DEFINITELY REPRESENTATE THE QUESTIONS ON THE IMPLEMENTING COMPANIES FOR THE NEEDS OF THE DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN BUDDY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2017. Who will introduce us to the Foreign Policy Committee report? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! Before the report, I request permission in the hall of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u107	Voting regime under the procedure so made. Vote 94 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u108	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of real estate issues for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, signed in Washington on 4 April 2019, No 902-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May The Commission At a meeting held on 5 June 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of real estate issues for the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest. The reasons for the bill were presented by Kalin Anastasov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on settlement of real estate issues for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest was developed by both parties in preliminary consultations and negotiations based on the generally accepted principles and norms of international law. On the one hand, in accordance with art. 1 of the concluded intergovernmental agreement, the Bulgarian State will acquire the right to property free of charge on two land properties in Budapest, free of any burdens, giving it the right to freely manage and dispose of land properties, as well as of the current and future buildings built on them. Documents certifying the location, area and boundaries of these properties shall form an integral part of the Agreement. On the other hand, according to art. 2 of the Agreement, the Hungarian side undertakes to pay the Bulgarian State an amount of EUR 4 000 000, representing financial compensation for the acquisition of full and exclusive rights on other properties, in Budapest, which were granted to the Bulgarian side under the 1980 Agreement. With the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of the real estate issues for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, the final problem of real estate granted for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, Hungary, which arose for the Republic of Bulgaria on the occasion of the application of the 1980 Agreement is solved. Under the conditions laid down in this Agreement, the Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic on the provision of permanent use of parcels and on the construction of dwellings for the employees of the Embassy of the People's Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest and on the conditions of construction signed on 6 December 1980 in Budapest and on the Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic on the provision of a permanent use of a plot for the construction of an administrative building for the needs of the Commercial Representation at the Embassy of the People's Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, signed on 17 March 1981 in Budapest, shall be terminated. This Agreement is subject to ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of property issues for the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, signed in Washington on 4 April 2019, No 902-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. I'm opening the debate. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of real estate issues for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, signed in Washington on 4 April 2019, No 902-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2019. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u110	Madam President, I ask that the newly adopted First Voting Bill be dealt with in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u111	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u112	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on the settlement of real estate issues for the purposes of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on Real Estate Settlement for the Needs of the Diplomatic Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest, signed in Washington on 4 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u113	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law and the content of a single member, just read. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I will take a break so that we do not start the debates on the next bill and interrupt during the break, so I am giving 30 minutes of rest. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u114	Colleagues, we're moving on. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Nunev. Here you are, Mr. Nunev, for the first bill, for the second and for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019. At its meeting held on 18 April 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 902-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, Raina Dimova On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tzipov. In his statement, the importer noted that the reasons requiring the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents are related to the need to comply with some of the deadlines for providing a specific service with the Administrative Procedure Code. The purpose shall also be to specify the particulars to be indicated when submitting an application for an identity card and passport at the first issue of an identity document. The Bill establishes a new provision indicating what documents the Bulgarian citizen should submit when submitting an application for an ID card. There are also new provisions under which the data on parents, husband/wife, legal representative and decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for change of citizenship will be provided by the applicant in the case of the first issue of an identity document. Time limits for issuing ID cards and passports shall be introduced, namely in the case of a simple service within 30 days, in the case of a fast service within three working days and in the case of an express service within eight working hours of the acceptance of the application. The application for the issue of a passport or replacement document is intended to be subject to a certificate of birth of persons under 18 years in case the applicant does not have a valid identification document to be identified. The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents also introduces deadlines for issuing a document of identity of a foreigner, namely for a simple service the document will be issued for up to 30 days and for a quick service for up to 10 working days. The bill also provides for a deadline for providing data from the information funds for the Bulgarian personal documents "up to 14 days from the registration of the request or written application. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministry of Interior shall be made to the Act establishing a legal rule providing for the following points: specification of the acts issuing the fire safety authorities and the protection of the population implementing State fire control, precision of the request for issuing opinions/certificates, order for the removal of irregularities, suspension of proceedings for issuing opinions/certificates, setting a period of validity of five years for issuing a certificate of compliance of the objects with the rules and rules of fire safety, designation of the body which, when establishing compliance with the rules and rules of fire safety, issues opinions/certificates issued by the Minister of Interior, provides for a procedure for issuing a decision for refusal to issue opinions/certificates in the event of non-compliance with the rules and regulations on fire safety, establishment of the period for issuing opinions/certificates and decisions for the issuance of their issuance, establishment of a procedure for supplementing, correction of an obvious factual error and interpretation of certificates/certificates and decisions for their refusal. The adoption of the Bill, including amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Act on the Ministry of Interior, does not lead to the need to provide additional funds for the Ministry of Interior. The project does not provide for the introduction of European law and therefore no table of compliance with European law has been drawn up. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 902-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u116	Mr. Nunev, let's do the clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u117	On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am proposing admission to the Chamber of Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u118	Please vote on this procedure. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Next is the report on the Bulgarian Personal Documents Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. It's back on the Homeland Security and Public Order Committee. Who's gonna introduce us? Mr. Manev, come in. Reports are drawn up on the various bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019. At its regular meeting on 5 June 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Juriy Sherk, Deputy Minister, Rumyana Yordanova, Head of the Department of Consular Affairs, EU and Schengen....at the Department of Consular Relations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Yuri Sherk. In his exhibition, he noted that the Bill aims to improve administrative service and reduce administrative burden in the provision of services for issuing and obtaining Bulgarian personal documents in the country and abroad. The practice shows that there are difficulties for Bulgarian citizens residing abroad, resulting from the need to reappear in diplomatic and consular offices to obtain a new identity document. The Bulgarian personal document is intended to be received outside the country personally by using a licensed provider of a postal or courier service. This relief will feel tangible especially for Bulgarian citizens abroad living in settlements away from the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad. A successful analogue service is offered in a number of Member States of the European Union. The bill also provides for a new procedure for submitting applications for replacement of Bulgarian personal documents through the automated electronic service information system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition to the option to use a qualified electronic signature, the applicant will be able to submit an application in electronic format and without using such a signature by applying to the application a copy of a valid document, the replacement of which he wishes. The implementation of the new possibility to submit applications for replacement of Bulgarian personal documents requires a long period of technological preparation, which is why the amendment is intended to enter into force after 12 months after its publication in the Official Journal. The time limits for issuing Bulgarian personal documents on a foreign application are also reduced. From 90 days for a simple service, the time limit is 45 days and 60 days for a fast service is 30 days. The draft provides for a change in the period of validity of the passport, 10 years, but for the introduction of the technological conditions for their preparation the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is provided for to provide technical and organisational conditions for issuing passports with a period of validity of 10 years, not later than 1 January 2021. Upon successful establishment of the necessary conditions before that deadline, Bulgarian citizens may submit applications for issuing passports with a period of validity of 10 years from an earlier moment, as determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the Ministry of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tsipov said support for the bill. The bill does not provide for the introduction of European legislation and does not regulate enforcement relations of European Union law and therefore no analysis of compliance with European Union law is necessary. On the basis of the vote, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 902-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Mrs. Alexandrova, for procedure. Then the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report submitted by Anton Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u121	Thank you. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the deadline for a proposal of the Law amending the Law on Political Parties, No 902-01-24, tabled by the Council of Ministers, to be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I am voting on Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal to reduce the period between first and second readings. They voted 106 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. The third report? From the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, who will introduce us to him? Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u123	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll introduce you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-10, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019. At its meeting held on 3 April 2019 the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-10, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov and Andon Donchev. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Andon Donchev. In his exhibition he noted that the proposed change in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents is related to an extension of the period of validity of the passports of Bulgarian citizens from 5 to 10 years. In this way, the period of validity of international passports will be compared with that of other identification documents. In the reasons of the Bill, it is noted that most visas for countries outside the European Union are for a period of 10 years. They are placed on the relevant page in the foreign passport of a Bulgarian citizen wishing to visit a country chosen by him. This leads to difficulties expressing that, within five years, the person must reapply or replace the visa concerned. On the basis of art. 79, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is requested an opinion from the Ministry of Interior. In his reply, the Ministry expressed its principled support for the Bill. The opinion also noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of Interior, prepared a Bill, which also provides for a 10-year period of administrative validity of passports. The bill is included in the legislative programme of the Council of Ministers and is about to be submitted to its meeting. The opinion draws attention to the fact that with the implementation of the contract with the subject of projecting, building and management of the System for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents generation 2019............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The model is approved by decision of the Commission. 16 of Protocol No 39 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 September 2017 and supplemented by a Protocol to this Decision. 40 of Protocol No 39 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 31 January 2018. In this regard, at its meeting on 7 March 2018, the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary drafts of the new generation of Bulgarian personal documents. The projects provide for the issue of a document type "passport" with 48 pages, which, if provided in the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, can be valid for up to 10 years. After completion of the public procurement procedure, the models of Bulgarian personal documents are subject to validation by an act of the Council of Ministers pursuant to § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. It is noted that the proposal should also comply with the recommendations of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The abbreviation of the English ICAO (Repair 26 of Annex 9 "Simplification of procedures', in force from 23 October 2017 and applicable from 23 February 2018) as regards the period of administrative validity of a passport issued to persons up to 18 years of age, which should not exceed five years. During the years, persons under the age of 18 have seen significant changes in their image, which is the reason why the image taken during the initial issue of a passport becomes obsolete. In order to ensure the identification process of those persons, it is necessary that the passport for them remains mandatory with 5 years of administrative validity. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-10, submitted by Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019. At a meeting held on 5 June 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents aims to improve administrative service and reduce the administrative burden in the provision of services for issuing and obtaining Bulgarian personal documents in the country and abroad. The proposed amendments and additions introduce the possibility for Bulgarian personal document to be obtained outside the country personally by using a licensed provider of a postal or courier service. This will ease Bulgarian citizens abroad, especially those living in settlements, away from the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad. The conditions under which such receipt may be effected shall be determined. A requirement is introduced for a single appearance of the person when submitting the application for the issue of the document in diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad. The possibility of submitting applications for replacement of Bulgarian personal documents through the automated electronic services information system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is created. The automated electronic service information system will accept applications for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents with the introduction of a second identifier which is not contained in the data of Bulgarian personal documents. The receipt of the finished document will only take place in person once the identity of the recipient has been identified unambiguously and the document for which the replacement is requested is returned. The deadline for issuing Bulgarian personal documents is expected to be reduced when applied abroad, respectively to 45 days for ordinary and 30 days for fast service. It is envisaged that the Ministry of Interior will ensure the technological and organisational conditions for issuing passports with a period of validity of 10 years not later than 1 January 2021. When establishing organisational conditions and providing the necessary technical and software before that deadline, Bulgarian citizens may submit applications for issuing passports with a period of validity of 10 years from an earlier moment, as determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The change to apply for the replacement of Bulgarian personal documents requires a longer period of technological preparation, which is why the amendment is intended to enter into force 12 months after the publication in the Official Journal. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers, No 902-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft amendment and supplement to the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. The report of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad remains. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Any change in any law that relieves the lives of the Bulgarians in any way must be supported. We at IMRO will support him. The problems with the Bulgarian personal documents and their issue concern all Bulgarian citizens. We know that it's not very easy at the moment when a person has to get a new ID card. He has lost it, or a driver's license and so on. Deputy Minister Tzipov is here. I would also like to call on the Ministry of Interior to relieve Bulgarians abroad, to have a quick way to obtain Bulgarian personal documents. Let's make it easier and more accessible for people in Bulgaria to acquire these documents. At the moment, the requirement is that a person at a permanent address draw up all his documents, which makes it very difficult for many people. They lose two or three days each, especially for a driver's license, there is no express order that can happen in one day. I would ask the Ministry of Interior to develop a system in some way every Bulgarian citizen in the territory of Bulgaria, no matter where his address is, to be able to submit his identity documents. This will improve the service, in the same way will make it easier for Bulgarian citizens who are also posted, who do not live at the moment in the place where they are registered, and so on, to obtain identification documents faster, including cheaper and thus will really help people to have faster access to the system for getting IDs and IDs, including passports and driver's licenses. I had to get my driver's license renewed soon too. I had to lose two days, travel and so on. I think that the Ministry of Interior system has a connectivity between all district governments and it can be done such a thing that Bulgarian citizens can apply for personal documents in any regional government of the country, no matter where they are registered at a permanent address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Tzipov wants to take the floor. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Interior of this year is taking serious measures and actions precisely in this direction that you spoke about. The first step has already been taken. At present, each document of identity should be stated according to the current legislation on the permanent address of the citizen, but after amendments to the Rules for issuing the Bulgarian identity documents it is now possible to do so in any regional government or regional directorate within the territory of the applicant's permanent address. To give the following example there are nine districts in Sofia at the moment. At present, the current legislation provided for you to apply only to the regional management at your permanent address. Now there is an opportunity for you to do this on the territory of all district governments. This is the first step. The next step we would take and it is in line with what you say, namely to be able to apply from anywhere. At the present time, I would, of course, like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Ministry of Interior offers such an electronic service without visiting the relevant regional management or regional directorate by electronic means to submit your application, as long as you do not need to be removed biometric data. If you have valid biometric data, this can be done at the moment from any mobile device that gives you access to the so-called electronic services. The next step we are planning next year is to introduce a new centralised system for personalization with decentralised service of applications and receiving the ready documents. This means that we will have the opportunity to submit the application in any district management, to process it by the employees of the Ministry of Interior and to receive it on request from you, in any structure of the Ministry of Interior. This is why we need time, we need to change our information systems and, above all, build the new centralized system for personalization of Bulgarian personal documents. We also supported the initiative to deliver the ready document for Bulgarians abroad through a licensed postal and courier operator. I think we can go in the direction of doing this and for Bulgarian citizens who live constantly in Bulgaria as long as, of course, the relevant postal and courier operators are licensed because, I pay attention to the current law, the identity documents are owned by the state and the citizens use them for the period of validity. This means that it is necessary, once the document is requested and made, to be delivered to the relevant address, to the respective settlement with compliance with all security conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I put to the vote first Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-10, submitted by Andon Dimov Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019. They voted 127 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902 01 17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019. They voted 130 MPs: 96, none, 34 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019. Vote 128 MPs: 90, none, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Communication on parliamentary control for 7 June 2019, Friday, after the end of this item. 1 in the sitting. The first will be the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. He will answer four questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Tsonkov, Kolyo Milev and Valentina Naydenova. Second is the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. He will answer two questions from the MPs Alexander Sabanov, Atanas Stoyanov and Peter Hristov Petrov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure postponed answers by seven days and asked: Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev and Pencho Milkov; Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to two questions from the National Representatives Georgi Stoilov, Krum Zarkov and Pencho Milkov; and Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoynev; Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the National Representatives Georgi Mihailov, to two questions; and Valentina Naydenova; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and to a question from the National Representative Valentin Milushev to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev are postponed. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, Justice Minister Danail Kirilov and Culture Minister Boyl Banov will not participate. Colleagues, tomorrow's parliamentary control is short, as at 12:00 we will distribute the diplomas to the graduates from the Law Faculty of Sofia University on the decision of the Conference of Presidents. Tomorrow, June 7, 2019 "On a regular basis, the meeting shall be held at 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
