ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. In this context, I would remind both representatives and ministers that questions and answers must be firm, not more than 1 minute. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u3	Mr President! The Finnish Government has misunderstood its mission. It is the government's job to overcome the recession, not to defeat the Finnish wage and salary earner. It is now clear, at the latest, that there will be no Labour Party in the Finnish Government. In recent days, I have been contacted by hundreds of citizens who have been appalled at the government's intention to cut their salaries. There are hundreds of women out of nursing work on small wages. These decisions are a continuum for the government's policy of paying pensioners, families with children, unemployed people and students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u6	Mr President! Of course the answer is yes, I want to build Finland in cooperation. The Government has gone on to improve Finland’s poor economic situation by three major measures. Firstly, we need cuts and savings involving pensioners, students, the unemployed and so on, which you mentioned here. Then we need major reforms that should have been able to be done much earlier. Now they must be completed with determination. And now we are talking about the issue in which we are working, and we need three sets of measures: we need better cost competitiveness, we need wage moderation and we also need a lot, a lot of action to promote productivity. And the government does all these things. The wage moderation then belongs to the labour market organisations. We tried to agree twice on this, but we could not agree on the objective, and that is why the government cannot wait and then take action, which is fair and well thought out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u7	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u8	Mr President! The government is now rather blindly staring at this series of competitiveness indicators alone, without seeing the overall problems of the economy. We have a very big demand problem in Finnish products, services and export products, and we need to focus on this now. This disciplining of employees does not improve our competitive situation or the problems we currently have in export. Sectoral solutions to sectoral problems should be sought. Local agreement is a sensible alternative to finding solutions to them. The SDP is in favour of genuine settlement, local settlement. This means that together we will take the matter up and try to resolve it — not in a way that is forced, commanded and imposed from above. I would now like to offer the government a hand of cooperation. I hope you'll take it. We want to make changes in Finnish society by agreeing. The SDP has launched a process of common responsibility for a broad agreement, and I would ask that the government also be involved in this. Today on 10 September we expect an answer from the government, a greeting to that occasion. I hope you'll join me in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u9	Mr President! We tried this social pact for the first time in the government's disapproval phase — of course it was only about eight days ago. We used to twist it pretty much full-time. Now we were doing the groundwork throughout June, we continued throughout August and we actually did not reach this goal. We got quite a long way in the artificial selections that would have been there, in the process and in the timetable, but we could not agree on the target. This is regrettable for those who would have accepted this objective, and we would have preferred this solution to come about by agreeing together. I am prepared to listen to the final solution, in which the target of a 5% cost-competitive jump can be implemented and which also includes those means. The government will continue in its own way until then. If there's a better suggestion, of course we'll take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u10	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you are now using force with an exceptionally hard hand. Your actions, your blackmail package, do not represent the culture of the treaty with which we in Finland have previously handled the big decisions of this nation. You are now using force, you are showing a stick to ordinary employees, to those women who are pounding, especially in the low-paid public sector, on a low wage. We would like to ask you: Do you think it is right that the bill should fall on women, on low-paid women, who are often responsible for nursing and nursing work at very inhuman times, working in shifts, working at night, working at night? Have you, Prime Minister Sipilä, explained the effects of these measures of yours, their cost implications for families, their gender impact on equality between men and women and their effects on Finnish well-being in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u12	Mr President! The aim of this whole package is to increase employment. We believe that this will have the effect of creating tens of thousands of new jobs. How did they start making this package? We had a so-called 'fiscal devaluation' in which the reduction in employers' contributions could improve competitiveness, and under normal conditions it would have been financed by an increase in VAT. But we felt that it was an unfair way of financing a package for those working. We found a solution in which this package finances itself, and we did not have to touch VAT at all. With regard to this issue of male and female equality, for example on Sunday work, we went over very carefully how it affects which sectors. About 13 percent of women do Sunday work, and 12 percent of men do Sunday work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u13	Mr President! Prime Minister, you recently said that Finland is deep in the swamp. For me and quite a few Finns today, it seems to me that you are the only ones taking us deep into the swamp. Finland is a Finnish person: Finland is the police that work on Sundays. Finland is the nurses who work on Sundays. Finland is the teachers, entrepreneurs, all the people who are building this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u14	Mr President! When I meet people in that market and discuss their personal situation and in the evening I wonder at home how we can react to this issue, I always come to the same conclusion: we need to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work so that Finnish work is sold again in the world and, as a result of the increase in the employment rate, we can also get public finances in order and be able to invest in the most diverse things. We need to be able to stop living in debt by 2021. That is not an unreasonable requirement. As far as this change security is concerned, it was also agreed in this context that there would be a significant increase in the costs of dismissal, and as a security of change there would now be training security equivalent to the average earnings of the month. We also agreed on the continuation of occupational health care six months after the period of notice, and in addition to the long-standing matter on the table, the equalisation of the cost of parental leave, we also made a decision in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u15	Mr President! Yes, this is an unprecedented attack on contract law. Government cuts are particularly targeted at low-paid women, care workers and trade workers, as has been said today in this Chamber. I myself have worked as a nearby nurse in the health centre’s ward, and I dug up my old salary receipt from 2008 and I considered that on an annual basis these cuts would have meant 1,300 euros a year for me in 2008 — a large sum of a small salary. So I ask you, Minister: why has the government specifically now chosen this group of people, women who work in shifts, without any work? How will the discipline of low-paid women increase the competitiveness of Finnish export companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u16	Mr President! This whole package will save the public sector some EUR 1.4 billion. Some of this will be used to balance public finances and some will be used to reduce the private sector levy and will improve the competitiveness of exports you asked about. As far as this whole package is concerned, I would like to continue to emphasise the fact that we are looking for new jobs here. This is the part that workers can do for the unemployed. This is the practical action we are now challenging all Finns: to work for the unemployed. We are going to have to make cuts, we are going to use this to find the conditions for growth. This is the proportion of those who work for these volunteers. And then we're gonna have to do the big reforms where we can find our own opponents, even that part. It's not easy, but we have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u17	Let me remind you that the time limit for questions and answers is one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u18	Mr President! First of all, I am pleased to welcome the fact that we are actually taking decisions that actually affect costs and affect this government deficit, decisions that are clearly reflected in money here at the top. All the difficulties that have been raised here: we know that they will come, but this is also a difficult situation. And the government here and the parliament actually have to do the work that would normally belong to the labour force, but when they have not come up with solutions, the responsibility has now been passed on to the government. In order to increase competitiveness at company level and at workplace level, I would like to ask Minister Lindström, in the context of local agreement, what kind of preparation is being made to increase these opportunities at the workplace level, which is best known for the opportunities it offers? It seems that Mrs Rinne also gave her strong support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u19	Madam President! It's a very important question. This study of local settlement is just under way. Harri Hietala has reported to me many times where we go, so to speak, what is the feeling. On 15 October he will then hand over this report, and hopefully it will then open up this local agreement — and we must thank the Ay movement for the fact that it is no longer a curse word, this local agreement. That is the word Mr Rinne raised, and many others: agreement, local agreement. It has to be an arrangement, not a dictation from above, then it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u20	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, tough decisions have been taken, but of course this has been promised both in the elections and in the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u21	Mr President! As I have pointed out on several occasions, the beneficiaries of these cuts are, of course, the contributors: there we have cuts for pensioners, students, the unemployed. In this whole, in this section, then we who work will be paying. Then we still have the share of reforms in which, by reforming, we will do our part. Now, in this budget, the high incomes will also be included: the limit of the solidarity tax will be moved downwards; the capital tax will be increased;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u22	Mr President! Indeed, the citizens are rather confused that what is happening here. When the Minister of Labour, Lindström, said here that local agreement is the right thing to do, people now ask when the government will start deciding on working conditions. Instead of being agreed between workers and employers or at the workplace locally, you take over this power and decide whether or not to pay for sick periods. You take control of the length of leave, whether overtime is paid, and if you pay, what kind, whether or not you pay for Sunday. Yes, the people wondered, Prime Minister, where did you get this power when you did not talk about this at all before the election. Before the elections, you rejected the proposal by the Assembly to abolish the sick pay. Now you are in the process of implementing it. Prime Minister, do you understand at all that people feel cheated?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u24	Mr President! It is quite impossible to understand the speeches about dictation when twice the hand of reconciliation has been offered. Would it then be the case that the government should stand by while the competitiveness of Finnish work cannot be improved? If it had been possible to agree together, it would have been possible to agree on an extension of working time, which would have been the most painless way of doing so, and would have brought about the same solutions. There was no willingness to settle this. The government was forced to take responsibility because Finland cannot bear the amount of unemployment that it currently is. People are not humanely able to cope with that level of unemployment, and with such a low employment rate it is not possible to finance health services, social security and education services. So the government was under duress and did what had to be done, that is, shouldering its responsibilities under duress. I ask: when will these be put into effect?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u26	Mr President! We will start with a Government communication, which has now been agreed whether it was, not next week, but the next week, and then we will go over this whole package. After that, the normal preparations will begin, in which we will prepare the social partners in consultation with the committees normally, and then we will have the legislative proposals ready by next summer. These will come into force when the current collective agreements come to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u27	Mr President! These cuts in social security contributions amount to around EUR 800 million. And yes, you're funding it for Pekka P.D.'s sick pay, nurse Sari's overtime pay, and Matti Metalman's weekend Sunday work pay. These are hundreds of euros lost to these people in purchasing power. How, Prime Minister, are you going to replace the purchasing power on the domestic market that has kept the Finnish economy up since 2009?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u28	Mr President! As I mentioned earlier in one of those speeches, another and the traditional way of carrying out fiscal devaluation would be to finance it with an increase in VAT. Pensioners, unemployed, students are paying the value added again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u29	Mr President! Of course, our marching order here is clear. Our competitiveness lags behind the control countries. Countries that have been crisis countries in Europe, such as Ireland and Spain, have made structural reforms and have regained control. Competitiveness is dragging in, we need to get a bet on exports. We need to improve the employment situation, and we need to achieve growth and thus maintain welfare services. You asked me how the purchasing power would be maintained. It will be maintained by not raising taxes on earned income, and if and when we can verify that 5% of unit labour costs plus 5% wage moderation will lead to the desired goal of 2017, we will meet with a billion cut in income tax, and it will improve our purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u33	Mr President! It is unfortunate to note that Finland has now ended up in such a state. And it was clear to me for a long time that this social contract exercise was not easy. But it's a good thing the government admits that it failed. However, the objective was the right one, and the fact is that the situation in Finland is difficult. We are in a rather challenging situation here with regard to Parliament. The government told us that you have assessed these effects on equality, good for you. We look forward to getting those documents as well, so that we can really take a stand on this, although we are confident that the Prime Minister's word will stick to it. It was also said here that local agreement is progressing, that is good. In fact, I would have emphasised, and I would have liked, that the government should see the need for a comprehensive approach to this. There are a number of measures in the list that you are now presenting. Some of them are in the right direction, I'm sure you can support them. But then there are also those who, at least at this stage, are difficult to understand. I hope you open them. I would have asked you, Prime Minister: now that there are other objectives in the government programme and we know that the labour market needs to be reformed more broadly, how will this work continue? These are certainly not the only labour market reforms that are needed. We know that we need a reform of the employment services and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u34	Mr President! It is true that many, many labour market reforms are needed and worth continuing together and continuing together. For example, local reconciliation, its development, will continue in the triangular, and there will be 15.10. now the mandate of liquidator Harri Hietala. And this local arrangement is in the interests of both the employer and the employees. At the same time as the local agreement is being increased, it must be ensured that the staff’s representation is then settled locally in the company. I believe that, for example, this joint exercise brings flexibility to work and is in the mutual interest of both employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u35	Madam President! The cutting of Sunday supplements will have a far greater impact in women-dominated areas than you, Mr Prime Minister, described when you spoke of 12% and 13%. At the same time, the government has put forward a proposal for the liberalisation of the Business Time Act, which will mean an increase in the Sunday work in the commerce sector and will result in families having to spend the only day of family vacation with even less pay working on Sundays. This government proposal to cut off these Sunday supplements has a particular impact on women-dominated sectors. It affects nurses, trade workers, restaurant workers. Prime Minister, how does the government intend to correct this proposal in order to better reflect the low-paid women-dominated sectors in this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u36	Mr President! As I said in my earlier speech, our survey shows that 12 percent of men and 13 percent of women do Sunday work. There are process workers in the private sector, we have a lot of police officers, rescue operations, which are male-dominated sectors. It is true that the Sunday allowance for some sectors, especially women-dominated, is a significant part of the wage formation, and this is precisely the reason why we reduced this share in this overall package. As I have said many times, the range of means that would have been used in this social agreement and in this process would have been much wider. It is a pity that we did not make progress on that front, because I believe that the outcome would have been more varied then. Now we have adopted five measures, the sixth is this reduction in the social security levy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u37	Mr President! It is very sad and, at the same time, incomprehensible that the government is trying to solve the problems of the export industry by making the low-income, low-paid, poorest people, children and the elderly pay. People have come to me to ask me here in the last couple of days whether the Finnish Government does not know working life at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u40	Mr President! In four years' time, if we did nothing in this situation, we would be even deeper in the swamp to which Mr Niinistö referred. We have to act, and we have to make savings. We must do what we can to improve competitiveness. And we must now work towards the reforms that have not been made during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u43	Madam President! Mr Sipilä, I wonder how we can afford to cut purchasing power by up to 3%. Are you not concerned that Finnish service companies, especially those small companies, will face real difficulties next year due to these wage cuts and reduced purchasing power?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u44	Mr President! The aim of this package is to increase cost competitiveness by 5%. There are measures to extend working time, there are measures to reduce employers' contributions, and the employment impact of this package can be as many as 50,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u45	Madam President! You can say that we are living in a winter economic war. During the actual winter war, the starting point was not to leave the guy behind. The point of view of those who overturned the social pact seemed to be that the guy wasn't left behind. In this respect, it is great that the new government sees this economic reality, the overall picture. I am sure that all of us Finns will have to participate in these economic activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u46	Mr President! In its programme, the Government has built a vision for Finland until 2025, and these actions aim to achieve that vision. Then we will have a balance in public finances and we will be able to finance public spending. Now they have been permanently reduced, and we must also adapt the functions of society to the level we can finance. Then, in 2025, we will also seek a much higher employment rate, which means that more and more of us will be able to participate in the development of society in our own work. As far as Greece, Portugal, Spain, is concerned, we have had to take painful action, much more so and much greater action than what has now been done in Finland. And when I have spoken with the heads of these countries, they have said that you must courageously do those things now. They have done so, and when they look back, they are pleased that progress has gone in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u47	Mr President! Prime Minister, you must have noted the assessment of the measures that have now been proposed by the esteemed Sixten Korkman. He was concerned that, in reality, these would not necessarily lead to an improvement in its most acute problem, namely the competitiveness and sustainability deficit of our exports, but, at its worst, the labour market will be tied to the knot next autumn — if I correct his thinking a little. I think it's good to keep this in mind. A couple of days ago I also suggested that — the third time it is true — we should try to meet again at this labour market table under your leadership, to see what we could do together, because the repertoire that is being negotiated may be greater than this, because this is now leading to a reduction of 4-6 % of the income for women in the low-paid public service sectors. What is more, you are proposing different legislation, mandatory legislation on collective bargaining, which is a very rare and fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u48	Mr President! I have been very deeply involved in these discussions since that vapu, and now in August we spent three and a half weeks on it. We also had a liquidator working full time on that. It seems to me that most people there wanted the outcome you just described, but not all of them. And we have to go with everyone. If there is a proposal that meets this 5% target and describes the means by which it will be achieved, as I have said many times here, I am happy to accept it. But for the third time, I will not start negotiating a social agreement because it might not be very credible, because I made a compromise proposal many times on this objective too and it was not accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u49	Madam President! In a public debate, the trade union leaders are asked: 'Do you accept these government measures?' I think that's the wrong question. They don't have to accept these. Neither do the pensioner organisations, student organisations, organisations of the unemployed approve of the measures that are being taken against them. I think the right question now for the trade union movement is: 'Do you agree that Finland is a parliamentary democracy, in which the government and parliament ultimately decide what is the law and what is respected in the country?' A real question for Prime Minister Sipilä: you referred to the fact that if the social partners are given a solution that meets this objective, then you are prepared to accept it. I'm asking if there's a deadline for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u50	Mr President! It must happen quickly, because we are going to move forward, of course, now on the basis of this planned package. I hope it will come before that communication debate, which is about two weeks away, because otherwise we will move on from this basis. I know from these negotiations that there is a readiness for this type of action, which is listed here too. Now all we have to do is find the will to make that list together and agree on that goal together. I am happy to accept a proposal with the same result.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u51	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u52	Mr President! Prime Minister, what you have done so far, that is to say, the government and the Prime Minister under your leadership, has focused on how to cut, how to adapt. I ask: when will measures be taken to strengthen investment in the production of new jobs? Our problem in Finnish society is that 460,000 people are without normal work, more than 300,000 people are covered by earnings-related security or unemployment benefit. My question is: When will there be growth fins? When will there be any presentations on how to fix hospitals or schools with indoor air problems? How do we start taking these things forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u53	Mr President! The budget will be discussed at the end of this month and will include, among other things, key projects to safeguard the financing of business growth, improve the conditions for competition in entrepreneurship and so on. But with public investment alone, unfortunately, it is not the right way to put Finland in order. Finland is in good shape to improve the competitiveness of exports, to improve the conditions for the export industry, and that is how our services sector will follow. Through such healthy growth and restructuring, we will also be able to recover from the public sector, which is absolutely what we need. I have also received a lot of feedback from citizens, and they want to stop living as a debt in Finland, because opposing these changes is the same as defending the continuation of living as a debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u54	Next question, Congressman Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u55	Mr President! The situation of European refugees is alarming. Almost 400,000 people this year have fled from inhumane conditions and persecution in Europe. Human and practical solutions are needed. Responsibility for people must be shared with more than just a couple of countries bordering the EU. Yesterday, the Commission made two major points: a total of 120000 refugees would be relocated within the EU, of which around 3,000 would be resettled to Finland. In addition, permanent instruments would be created to resolve crises. It has been difficult to find out about Finland's paddling positions on the refugee situation and helping people. Next Monday, the matter will be discussed at the EU Council of Ministers. My question, Mr President-in-Office: will you support these Commission proposals next Monday?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u56	Madam President! At least Europe faces one of the greatest challenges of its day. The crises in the neighbouring regions drive hundreds of thousands into Europe, in fact it is predicted that up to a million asylum seekers will be in Europe this year, some of which will then find their way to Finland. The situation is very serious, and we need action in the countries of origin and transit, we need joint action by the EU and Finnish action. I would venture to argue that the government's actions have not been impulsive, but have been determined to resolve the practical issues and problems that exist here and to take part in the European debate. Finland and the Finnish Government will adopt their positions on the Commission's proposals in the EU's Committee of Ministers on Friday. There are currently discussions, and Friday we will be wiser in these matters. But it is clear that we need European solutions. Here we can take action to deal with the large number of people that are coming to us: how to deal with their affairs, how to find the real ones who are in need of help. This is what we can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u57	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u58	Mr President! Thank you for your answer to the government. People die at the borders of Europe because people do not have effective ways of seeking security in Europe legally. Without a visa, for example, it is not possible to come safely and legally to EU soil. For example, a humanitarian visa for asylum seekers arriving from a crisis area, such as Syria, would prevent human smuggling, trafficking in human beings and death on the route. This would allow a person from a crisis country to go directly to his country of destination, for example by flying. A safe arrival will promote good integration and help you live a good life in Finland as well. What is the government going to do to increase the legal means of entering Europe, and are you prepared to introduce a humanitarian visa or similar tool to help asylum seekers arriving here?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u59	Madam Speaker! First of all, we have all seen shocking pictures and read shocking news about how thousands of people have drowned at sea or dozens of people have died in the truck’s cargo compartment. This is because people really do resort to smugglers and illegal routes in their distress. Europe must do that by creating legitimate routes to Europe, by establishing legal routes to seek asylum, by establishing procedures for the proper investigation of people's affairs. And the most sensible thing would be for us to be able to do this work already in the countries of origin, close to crises. For example, there are millions of Syrian refugees in Turkey. On the other hand, reception centres operating under the EU flag could be established in the regions of the countries bordering the south of the EU, Hungary, Italy, Greece, where people would be welcomed and would know that they could apply and that their case would be investigated there. We have a lot of different ways to do that now, and we really must insist on Europe acting together. Europe is one of the strongest economic areas in the world and, if it works together, it will be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u60	Mr President! In this regard, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Orpo, well summed up the need for action at European level. I would now like to ask the Minister for the Interior: what do you think can be done only on a voluntary basis? If this matter is really to be resolved, you would think that it would be sensible for Finland to resolve it in such a way that each EU country should assume its own responsibilities, and that is why I ask, Minister for the Interior: what do you think, can such a solution be based solely on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u61	The Minister of the Interior thinks what the government decides to be together. We will find out on Friday in the Committee of Ministers of the European Union. What is most important is that when we look at European solutions, they must provide clear answers to how we can help people in the countries of origin: how we deal with smuggling people, how we can steer people on legitimate routes. And it is quite clear that we need to find lasting solutions to these permanent problems. They must be very strong in the decisions taken by the Commission or by Europe. We, as a government, will deal with the whole and then we will give answers to it tomorrow, on Friday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u62	Madam President! This humanitarian disaster that we are currently experiencing in Europe and Syria is, of course, something that requires strong attention from Parliament. However, I would have asked Minister Orpo: How does the government now intend to react to the fact that we have been tainted by information that the Swedish railway company SJ currently organises free transport for refugees to Finland from there through our western border? Since there is no border control now, there is currently no clear situation as to who is coming to us and where. In what way is this company’s activities likely to be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u63	Madam President! This SJ is a private Swedish company that has announced that they will pick up asylum seekers and free of charge. We have been in contact with Sweden both on this issue with this company and on a wider scale with Sweden as a transit route for people who are currently seeking to enter Finland. Ships coming from Sweden, among others, today — and we have verified it — require identity papers from people, so that route across the sea is not so desired, so the flow is directed northwards to Finland. In this background there is clearly evidence of organized action, and this is one phenomenon that this The Swedish railway company has done this, apparently in some way to control the situation. But we have been in constant contact with the Swedish authorities, both by the police and the immigration authorities, and we are trying to find solutions to them together. Nor can it be so in Sweden, which is also a member of the EU, a Dublin country, a Schengen country,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u64	Värderade fru talman! Vi upplever för tilfället kanske den värsta flyktingcatastrofen effecter andra världskriget, och det är Jätteviktigt att Finland faktiskt är en aktör nu som också vill bära sitt ansvar. Jag hoppas att regeringen tar den installationen också inkommande måndag, framför allt i morgon, när ni ska fatta beslut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u65	Mr President! An important question, and it is indeed my property, integration. This is the kind of sector where you have to reserve resources. It is in everyone's interest: it is in our interest, it is also in the interests of these asylum seekers, so that they can get to work here in Finland and to this Finnish culture in general. I think that working life is the best way to learn and understand what this Finland really is, and it is absolutely imperative to put resources there. Yes, the government has taken this into account, and this will be addressed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u66	Mr President! It is estimated that at least 20,000 refugees will come to Finland this year. Migri talks about as much as 40,000 a year, and about half of them may get asylum. So these are asylum seekers, not necessarily refugees. There may be quite a variety of travelers in this group, and it is quite difficult to know who comes from there. There may be fighters or terrorists — I would not call them fighters but terrorists or other criminals — who flee their countries. The question is for Minister Orpo: is it now that other countries are not complying with these Schengen and Dublin rules, that these internal Schengen border checks, or border checks, have been considered? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u67	Mr President! This was a very important and topical issue to be considered. We have a continuing readiness to introduce Schengen border controls on a temporary basis, and this is possible under the Schengen rules. In addition, we are also by the government to activate the possibility of using spot checks. But it is important to understand that, even if we have an internal border inspection at the Swedish border in the north in accordance with Schengen, it probably does not reduce asylum seekers at all, because in Finland, who is seeking asylum in the same way or who wants it, can march on the border guard and ask for asylum. Then we have an obligation to investigate his case. However, this Schengen border check could, for example, have a preventive effect on mild phenomena. That is why we are thinking about this and it is in our choice of means. Then, as far as these security issues are concerned, it is quite clear that when people come from the world's worst crisis scenes, which have been at war for years or decades, this involves:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u68	Mr President! As has been said here, the situation is difficult. People are dying. Escape to the Mediterranean when he escapes from distress, war, suffering. We need to look for European solutions, and hopefully the country's government will also be ready to apply for them. Finland has an obligation to deal with all asylum applications that are submitted here. At the moment, there is a great deal of pressure on Northern Finland, Kemi and Oulu, because, as has also been said in this debate, a large number of applicants are currently coming through the northern border. I would like to ask the government: how to ensure that all applications are dealt with quickly? Currently, the police are congested in Oulu and registration cannot be carried out, and when registration cannot be carried out, this asylum process will not start and people will not receive this reception allowance either. So how do we ensure that these applicants have, firstly, human conditions, sufficient resources and a reasonable period of time for processing applications?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u69	Madam Speaker! There were a lot of questions here. First of all, we are well aware of how difficult the situation is in Oulu. During yesterday's day, a crisis group in our Ministry, together with the locals, found solutions that provided new reception centers in Oulu to provide more humane conditions. As far as these resources are concerned, the government has already increased the appropriations in the previous amending budget and will also increase the resources of the police and immigration authorities in the next amending budget. With this money we have been able to recruit more people, including 50 police officers and 100 people to the Immigration Service, so that we can make these processes work. But there are many things facing us, including the fact that there is only one fingerprint machine in the north. This may also slow down — and in this case slows down — the speed with which people can be registered. But even these practical things we are always trying to solve so that we can help people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u70	Mr President! It is quite clear that this refugee crisis needs both European and Finnish solutions acutely but also sustainable in the long term. Then we will have the opportunity to learn from countries that already have experiences, both good and bad. For example, it is estimated that: There are about one million refugees in Germany this year and the cost is about 12 billion. However, this is not just a question of cost but is also seen as a resource. Many universities have set up new courses for those who are educated and want to be educated. Language teaching has been added and entrepreneurship courses have also been started. I would like to ask our government and the Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen: how are these people seen in the guidelines of Finnish education policy in the long term?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u71	Mr President! It is clear that when – and we have discussed this change in the age structure in Finland many times in this Chamber – we have a reduction in the number of workers, then there is also a great deal of potential for us to gain employment elsewhere. Immigration can also be a positive resource for Finland in the coming years, and I believe that this will be the case. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, we have started work on our part. Integration issues as such belong to Minister Lindström's property, but of course this also has a great deal of impact on the sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. From the first day, when asylum seekers come to Finland and are of pre-school or primary school age, they are entitled to pre-school education and basic education and also to early childhood education if they are of their age, and municipalities can also organise preparatory education. We respect these rights in Finland and offer these opportunities to these children and young people. In addition to that, we have launched a work in which we will consider:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u72	Last question on this subject. Congressman Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u73	Mr President! You, Minister Orpo, mentioned that attention should also be paid to the ways in which the situation could be affected in the countries of origin and origin. And my question is, in fact, for Minister Toivaka, because you are responsible for development cooperation and humanitarian aid: At the same time, the government has made considerable cuts both in the budget of those organisations which could work there — the Foreign Aid of the Church, the Red Cross and others — and in the development cooperation in these areas of refugees in general, which, in my opinion, could help more on the ground, for example, and prevent this refugee from erupting into Europe. In this new situation, is the government prepared to assess these cuts in development cooperation and humanitarian aid and thus also to prevent refugees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u74	Madam President! This was a very important question. It is important that we can help refugees there at source. Now that we are talking about this particular river of refugees, the neighbouring countries where a huge number of people, such as 4 million people in the neighbouring countries of Syria, have been living in refugee camps for years, have now left because people have taken over despair. There's no end to the crisis, and let's get a better life and hope. But it is very important that we be able to help people there in the countries of origin. I am, of course, very sorry that Finland will have to cut in this situation. We need our help, too. I myself have now tried to emphasise that, when these cuts are targeted, they will be targeted in such a way as not to cut the funds allocated to these refugee camps, for example, in the neighbouring countries of Syria, but to see ways of prioritising them so that we can even make additional efforts there. There is a particular need for humanitarian aid. At present, the UN estimates that only 40% of the aid needed in camps, for example, exists. So it's for humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u75	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u76	Madam President! This bill is based on a government programme aimed at a sustainable energy economy and increasing the share of renewable energy by more than 50%, while at the same time ending the burning of coal that heats the climate. However, the realisation of a renewable energy economy cannot be just an administrative decision, but requires not only large investments and new technologies but also the acceptance of Finnish citizens. That is why we must also keep an eye on the economic sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the various production methods and, of course, on state expenditure. With the Government's proposal, the increase in the cost of wind power capacity to the State will be brought to a halt in 2018 for offshore power plants. The cost of the offshore wind farm pilot project would increase somewhat in 2019. All the same, after 2030, production aid would no longer be paid because it can be received for a maximum of 12 years and these periods will expire by that time. This proposal does not propose any changes to the overall capacity, the level of aid or the right to receive aid, i.e. it does not interfere with the protection of property or the freedom to conduct a business guaranteed by the Constitution. The preparation of this proposal has also been crucial during the transition period to ensure the stability of the investment environment. The last time to apply for this FIT system is more than two years away, i.e. 1 November 2017. Nor is the 38% renewable energy target set for Finland in the European Union for 2020 at risk, but we will achieve it. Mr President! The aim of this proposal is therefore to ensure a controlled closure of the feed-in tariff system for wind turbines. The total capacity of 2,500 megavolt amperes defined for them has already been practically met. The main changes in this bill are the following three four: Firstly, the quota decision must ensure in advance that the wind power project can fit into this total capacity of 2500 megavolts. Secondly, under the quota decision operators have two years to apply for this scheme. However, the absolute deadline is 1 November 2017. The total capacity of this 2500 megavolt amps will no longer be released for reuse. And yet, the obligation to notify electricity producers will be lifted, which will significantly reduce red tape that slows things down. This means that the Energy Agency will approve the feed-in tariff system for a power plant if the application has shown that the conditions laid down in this Act are met and that there is no obstacle to approval provided for by this Act. In addition, the pilot project of Pori Tahkoluoto offshore wind farm will be ensured access to the feed-in tariff system. In November 2014, EUR 20 million of energy aid was granted for its investment. This pilot project for offshore wind farm is important both for cleantech and for the promotion of renewable energy. The aim is to obtain extensive new information on the construction, operation and maintenance of the offshore wind farm under Finnish conditions and related new technologies. I would point out that the pilot project for the offshore wind farm was based on the previous government programme, as the representatives of Rinne, Haglund and Niinistö well know — or at least would know if they were here in the Chamber. Mr President! To conclude, these administrative changes are expected to achieve the objective set out in the Government Programme. The capacity covered by the scheme is estimated to be well below 2500 megavolt amps, leaving the production of wind power below 5 terawatt hours. All in all, there are now an exceptional number of changed and changing factors in the energy policy equation. In order to update the energy policy line, I have launched the preparation of the reform of Finland’s national energy and climate strategy. This strategy consists of an action plan and a working list of issues to be done and to achieve the objectives of our own national energy economy, such as security of supply, as well as the implementation of international agreements. Studies and studies are on the way, work is on the move. The public debate will take place in the course of this year and next year, and we will bring this as a Government report to Parliament in the autumn of next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u77	Madam President! The Government's proposal in the debate aims to close the FIT system in a controlled manner because the total acceptable capacity of the FIT system has been reached in practice when the projects that have received the quota decision are included, and because the costs of the system have risen to a higher level than anticipated. This has contributed, among other things, to the fall in the price of wind power technology. Although support for wind power production in the form of feed-in tariffs is running out, it is stated in the proposal that the development of a new support system is to start this autumn. This is in line with the Government Programme’s entry that the promotion of wind power will be investigated in a cost-effective manner during the parliamentary term. The promotion of wind power is one part of Finland's climate and energy strategy as well as the implementation of the EU's renewable energy targets. In this context, I refer to my written question last month on the application of higher property tax on buildings and structures to wind power in real estate taxation. It is now the case that wind turbines are effectively taxed according to the general property tax rate. I also believe that taxation should be seen as a cost-effective driver of wind power. I received an answer from the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, in writing, that 'in addition to the measures taken by the Government, no new measures are being taken to encourage municipalities to promote the further construction of wind power'. However, there is a record in the Government Programme of a gradual increase in the lower and upper limits of real estate tax, and I hope that in this context the articles on property taxation for power plants will also be considered specifically from the point of view of promoting wind power. This is also linked to the fact that, according to the Tax Administration’s guidance, wind power plants are considered to be capable of operating independently when there are several power plants in the same area. There are no individual wind turbines of more than 10 megavolts in Finland, and even the largest ones are only 4.5 megavolt amperes in nominal power. This imposition of the power plant tax rate has therefore in practice been ineffective and has not been in line at all. In order for wind power to become even more useful at local level — because they have been criticised for being there — it should be considered that this megavolt amplitude limit should also be abolished or lowered, or that wind farms should also be viewed as whole parks for tax purposes. Unfortunately, at the moment this income has been disappointing for municipalities, and yet the role of municipalities in promoting wind power is very great. In my opinion, this would also provide an incentive for municipalities to develop more wind power. The input tariff system is expensive in terms of current costs, so it is, of course, essential that we get projects in the future and in the future. Of course, that atmosphere and time were different when this structure was made. It is therefore necessary to consider new ways of promoting wind power and specifically to encourage municipalities to plan this issue in fiscal terms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u78	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Indeed, this proposal is linked to the government programme's record that the calculations are now being corrected when the FIT system caused the State to bear higher costs than estimated when it was created, and this was due to a lower market price for electricity than estimated. However, the government has not forgotten wind power, but according to the report, the promotion of wind power will be investigated in a cost-effective manner during the parliamentary term, and various options had also been considered in this proposal. Thank you for that. It has to be said that Finland will achieve its objectives and obligations for renewable energy in the European Union, despite this change, and I am pleased that the Government Programme explicitly sets out the objective of cost-effective and technologically neutral increases in renewable energy production, which, in my opinion, means a wider energy palette, certainly without abandoning wind energy at all. I also hope, as Mrs Kulmuni has rightly pointed out, that the role of municipalities will be considered in the future as an enabler, but also that there will be time to reflect on the disadvantages of construction and also the running of mills. I hope that we do not put our heads in the bush in that way. In other words, wind power has certainly brought jobs, but certainly not free of charge because of the larger amount of this feed-in tariff. Thank you also to the government that the proposal has been estimated to streamline the management of the system and that this deregulation will add value to the promotion of domestic renewable energy. The proposal also mentions the use of forest chips as a substitute. I also hope, now that the minister is here, that also such other small rural projects could now rise and support rural multidisciplinary entrepreneurship, which, for example, in the form of such biogas production on many farms at the moment exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u79	Mr President! It is an excellent trend for the government to try to contain the costs of a feed-in tariff for wind power. Clean energy is a fine and desirable thing, but wind power is not one of the best ways to produce it in Finland. There is relatively little wind in our country, least when energy is most needed. In any case, wind power requires a more reliable solution to energy production, such as the further construction of nuclear power. Wind power is a costly form of energy production for the taxpayer. It cannot be a responsible policy to open up a thorn in the support of hundreds of millions — and billions in all over the years — for otherwise unprofitable business. Wind power is an interesting target for investors. It can be seen from the company's profit expectations. It is only unfortunate that these profits and profits come to a large extent directly from taxpayers. As a resident of a wind farm, I know that much of the time the plant remains unused. They have been set up in many places in haste and inadequacy when the design and authorisation process is corrected. I don't think this would happen if the motive wasn't money. The use of domestic biofuels and peat and the efficiency of waste incineration would be much more useful and would increase domestic employment. Mr President! I would also like to advise on the drafting of legislation on this subject, that we should go ahead with the facts and national interests and not take green ideology or the interests of big business as a leading force, which are surprisingly often run side by side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u80	Mr President! The FIT system in force is both good and bad. The good news is that it has really accelerated wind power construction and the development of the wind power sector in Finland and also the steering of wind power construction has developed further. Wind power now produces 2.5 per cent of electricity consumption, whereas in 2011, before the system, wind power accounted for only 0.3 per cent. However, the problem with the aid scheme is its worth. In the event of the imposition of the tariff, the price of electricity was expected to increase considerably, which was not the case, so the difference between the market price and the guaranteed price that the State had to pay was higher than expected. In addition, wind power plants have developed dramatically over these years, resulting in wind power companies now making excessive profits. I regret the wind power debate that is taking place in Finland. Although the feed-in tariff is certainly not perfect as a system, it is regrettable that the entire form of energy production has been subjected to widespread accusations, suspicions and misconceptions by oversized tariffs. Indeed, wind turbines often face this Nimby attitude, both among citizens and even among municipal decision-makers. However, wind power is one part of the future energy production palette. It is clean technology, which also has a huge global market, which we hope Finnish companies will benefit from when the domestic market is in order. Some people are horrifying about state subsidies for renewable energy. However, it should be borne in mind that much more support is given to non-renewable forms of energy than to renewable forms of energy. It is therefore clear that the support system for wind power needs to be changed. The government's proposal is that the current system will be closed once the quota of 2500 megavolt amps is exhausted. Originally, the government programme stated that the quota would be closed when 2000 megavolt amps were full, but fortunately the idea was abandoned, because if it had been maintained, it would have resulted in a stop in the sector and in wind power construction. Energy investments are long-term activities, so the business environment needs to be stable and predictable in order for operators to dare to invest. Therefore, support schemes must also be stable and predictable. In order to take the necessary green leap in this society and to be able to use renewable energy systems more and more, we need support systems for renewable energy and they must be stable and not be tampered with every government term. That is why I consider this system of progress, which has been chosen by the government, to be somewhat problematic for wind power subsidies. It would make more sense first to build a new support system for renewable energies and then to submerge the old systems. The path now chosen, and especially the Spring Government Programme Record, has created unfortunate and unnecessary uncertainty for the Finnish energy sector. Due to the complexity and uncertainties of wind power projects, some of the projects that have been decided on the quota will not be implemented. It would be sensible for the project applications now not to be covered by the quota to be put in line and the quota being released to be allocated to the next applications in the queue. This would also bring projects forward during this transitional period. However, in order to avoid any interruption in the construction of wind power and in the development of the sector, a new support system for renewable energies should be put in place as soon as possible. Preparation and consultation must begin immediately, and I believe that the new law and system should enter into force at the latest at the beginning of 2017. A viable alternative to a new support system for renewable energies would be a technology-neutral tendering procedure with its own baskets for advanced and newly developed renewable energy sources. The costs of this system could be more predictable than the feed-in tariff and could push forward and increase the production of renewable energy in a technologically neutral way. Mr President! Finnish energy policy is somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, we want to reduce energy consumption and increase renewable energy and, on the other hand, we want to keep the price of energy very low. At these energy prices, however, few projects are profitable and fossil fuels are also supported by public funds. In this framework, it is essential that there are adequate and effective support schemes for renewable energies. I therefore hope that the construction of the new support system will take place at a rapid pace and that there will be an open debate when it is being built. And when Minister Rehn is here, it would be great if you could hear a little about how this new support system for renewable energies is being built and on what schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u81	Honorable Speaker! Much has recently been said about wind power and the construction of wind power. Those in favour of wind power say that power plants bring hundreds of thousands of income to the municipalities and leave it with well-being in the area. In this belief, many of the municipal representatives have acted for the construction of power plants. Now that wind farms have begun to be built, it turns out that the truth is different: Construction does not, as promised, employ local people, and parts of power plant engineering are also imported from abroad. The power plants are built by companies registered abroad to repatriate the Finnish taxpayers' wind subsidies and leave only a fraction of the output to the locations where the plants are located. In the current extremely tight economic climate, I think there is reason to ask how long our society will endure this kind of support for electricity generation. In my opinion, a much better option would be to produce electricity with domestic chips and peat. This type of activity would be long-term employment for Finns, especially in those regions where there is a shortage of other jobs. Wind turbines built in Finland are industrial power plants, with a total height of over 200 metres and a power output of between 4.5 and 5 megawatts. Power is up to five times higher than other plants built in Europe. More noise is generated from larger power plants that are researched to endanger human health. There are worrying news from wind power cities that children and young people are suffering from a disturbance caused by low-frequency noise that penetrates buildings. Honorable Speaker! In order to save money and minimise health damage, I warmly support this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u82	Madam President! The government's proposal for a continuation of the wind power feed-in tariffs is a real disappointment to me. The proposal is not in line with the original Government Programme Record for the maximum amount of aid, but is now higher than originally promised. The cost of subsidies for taxpayers will continue to grow for a further half decade, and then, as far as it can really be permanently aligned at this stage, taxpayers' money would be less expensive to support wind power. However, taxpayers’ purses would be open until 2030. 15 years from now, it would therefore cost billions of euros of taxpayers' money to support these mills, or industrial plants, which are planned to be built closer to the population. At the same time, the foreign labour force, which is widely used in windmill construction projects, will be supported. This, if anything, is a good business for the capital districts. There is no risk, taxpayers pay, and residents suffer potential health damage as a result of low-frequency noise. Until November 2017, there is time in the wind power business to apply for support, and this could not be addressed in the name of asset protection. However, it is possible to cut citizens' benefits and tax deductions at any time. Mr President! We must now demand strict zoning as a counterweight. In my opinion, the boundaries of the wind power areas must not come at least 2 kilometres from the population, rather they should be located further away because there are plenty of windy areas and land in Finland. But, of course, he is not a fool who asks, but he who agrees to irresponsible planning. Power and political responsibility for planning are in municipalities that accept the formulas. I encourage the residents to make reasoned reminders during the preparatory phase regarding the design proposals and, if necessary, to claim their rights by appeal against administrative rights, if the decision-makers are not interested in taking political responsibility for the location of wind turbines in their municipalities. Municipal decision-makers should also be aware that contract law in wind power projects is complex and it is very likely that wind power operators have protected the back of their investments in a way that guarantees them the profitability of their investments even in the face of unpleasant surprises. In other words, municipalities have a lot of security over wind power projects, not only in relation to the health of taxpayers but also in relation to their money through the municipal budget. Let's hope that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u83	Mr President! To begin with, I have just a few words from the Nordic Council on this issue of wind power and the whole energy sector: We had the opportunity for the last two days in Oslo to discuss Finland's policy in relation to the other Nordic countries, and I believe that in this respect too the Nordic Council has been a good forum to open up why Finland has made such decisions as we have made here in recent years and months. In 2014, the total electricity generation in Finland was about 83 terawatt hours. Of this, wind power accounts for only 1.11 terawatt hours, or 1.3 per cent. So, of course, it is good to keep these indicators and facts in mind when, among other things, we look at this history and development in relation to the other Nordic countries. For investors, wind power has been a good business. There is a good return on capital, which we have also seen in municipal energy companies. How much Finnish expertise, innovation, has developed for us? Unfortunately, as colleagues have well said here, knowledge and products are too often foreign origins. In the SDP, we broadly support the government's proposal as a whole. Controlled closure is to be welcomed, and in that sense the Minister will receive the support. In this respect, the objective is and will be market economy. But we must also be active at EU level, and I believe that Minister Rehn has all the prerequisites and know-how to take care of this too. But what is business?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u84	Madam President! In spite of its good objectives in relation to renewable energy, the government has recently sought to contribute to major investment projects other than renewable, emission-free energy. I fully agree that, for various reasons, the wind-power feed-in tariff system has become more expensive than originally estimated and needs to be corrected only in terms of the acceptability of wind-power construction. In the long run, it would be wise to pursue a system in which direct or indirect support for any form of electricity generation would not be maintained. It would then happen that the market would be self-sufficient in terms of those forms of energy for which the changing costs, i.e. mainly fuel or raw material costs, are the lowest, i.e. plants operating with the very renewable sun, wind and water. However, is it not now a better way to moderate and rationalize wind power subsidies than this government bill, that the level of wind power support should be linked to the cost development of technology that has been decreasing all the time in terms of wind power and will undoubtedly continue to decline? I therefore believe that a review of the level of aid should be included in the law at regular intervals, so that, with the fall in the cost of technology, the feed-in tariff for wind power would be justified, but this would not stop the new investments in wind power that the government is seeking to promote in line with the renewable energy targets, along with all other renewable energy growth — at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u85	Madam President! In Germany the price of electricity is falling, in Sweden electricity is very cheap. The reason that the price is going down is precisely renewable. The beauty of renewables lies in the fact that once this production machinery has been built there, it costs little more to run, the marginal cost is virtually zero. And when there is enough capacity, the price of electricity will fall. The fact that we support the wind power of a feeder rickie is costing us, but in return we get cheaper electricity. It is quite true that the current feed-in tariff system is excessively expensive, but that does not mean that if there was a mistake in it, then there should be no future plan for any kind of support system. We definitely have to do that: it is useful to the national economy, it reduces the cost of energy, it maintains the willingness to invest in Finland. And, above all, that is why we are in a hurry to do this, that Finland will easily lose its reputation in these matters, when politics is woozy and the impression is created that you cannot trust the things the Finnish Government has promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u86	Madam President! This feed-in tariff system has, of course, been relatively generous. But it has to be said to the extent that no one in this Chamber or outside this room has been able to know what is the evolution of electricity prices and that cannot be known from now on. It depends so much on consumption. And when industrial production has decreased slightly and at the same time the hydrobalance, for example, is positive in the Nordic countries at the moment, i.e. there is a lot of electricity in the market, then the price will fall. However, one problem from the perspective of Finnish industry, entrepreneurs and consumers is that although we buy electricity from the Nord Pool power exchange, we have our own regional price, which is clearly more expensive than in Norway and Sweden. I would ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he is aware that, when compared with this three-month market average in the FIT system, is the question of the Finnish regional price, the increased market price, or the Nord Pool regional price. If one is chosen, the other will have much more to pay to the State. Because I don't know this myself, and that's why I'm asking the Minister. Here Mr Halmemenpää raised an interesting point of view, which should be taken into account in the legislation. However, it seems to me that once this feed-in tariff system has been defined as the same for gas, wood and wind, then surely we in these systems should aim for technological neutrality, that is to say, the one who finds the cheapest way to produce good electricity will get the most out of it. As far as I am concerned, that is the basic idea of the whole feed-in tariff system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u87	Madam President! With 30 years of experience in the various experiments of Keravan Energia, I have begun to wonder whether this wind farm philosophy has created a collective illusion. Firstly, one could always say that the capacity that is based on wind power must in practice be secured by another form of energy. The recovery of wind power so far is very challenging, in principle the batteries of electric cars are available and then the purchase of water — it can then be used later through the turbine for recalculated electric energy. The environmental problems are clear. As a general rule, people are not sympathetic to large wind rotors, and noise damage is apparently even more difficult than was originally estimated when the regulation was adopted. For over a decade I was a member of the Board of Directors, these various innovative solutions were very often discussed. One starting point is to consider how wind power can be used for the energy it provides. It doesn't have to be electricity. As long as we're in electricity, we're also in the complex safety and other factors. According to the thermodynamics law, energy can be converted directly into heat and the rotor can be replaced by a spiral-like upright device that takes a slightly less efficient but sufficient amount of wind energy. In other words, directly using a propeller, it is converted into water for use in households or larger dwellings. Then it can be preserved, then it can be used as water for use. As a hot water, it can also be used as heating water. There will then be no need for electrical components, and when it is an upright rotor, there will be no need for a single joint and no need for any limitations that are technically very demanding and expensive in these propeller-operated ones. I am therefore beginning to think that the whole system, which has tried to replace nuclear energy, is in the wrong category. The focus should be on producing the water needed to heat domestic or corporate water supply at the heat level that is needed. It's possible. Then the energy can be recovered and stored at home until the next time the wind blows enough. And if not the wind, then direct electric heating can be used to heat its water. This whole philosophy should be reconsidered that it will not be the same as when A. I. Virtanen was awarded the Nobel Prize and in every corner of the farm there were AIV tanks — still visible in the countryside. Technology needs to be changed, and reflection is fast underway. I suspect that this authorisation procedure and all these other problems are leading to the need to think, let me say, about the whole thing again from another angle of approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u88	Madam President! Peat receives about EUR 100 million per year, fossil fuels by around EUR 2 billion. It is only this year that the feed-in price for wind power has reached 100 million. I would like these figures to be kept in mind when it comes to the fact that wind power is too expensive, not to mention the climate and environmental damage associated with the incineration of both traditional fossil and peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u89	Madam President! I'm gonna have to go try this toilet. That is why I came to the toilet to say that this is the first time, and the second reason is that, when we have the Minister for Economic Affairs here, I thought I would take the floor with wind power, if the Madam President would allow. Now that we are talking in this Chamber about energy prices, feed tariffs, wind power and peat and many more, I would like to express a view of it, because just now in Question Time we were very concerned about Finland's competitiveness and the cost structure of companies, i.e. the price of Finnish work and how we can get Finnish products for export and thus raise the standard of living of the whole population. I have the impression that the Energy Agency is currently preparing a new set of maximum yield rules, i.e. the fourth and fifth four-year period starting in 2016. And if I have understood correctly, there will be such changes to this maximum allowable yield that, as a result — I think it is — electricity transmission prices will rise. This will result in a clear new cost burden, especially for SMEs in the area of forested electricity companies. The second consequence is that urban companies which do not have to invest in land cabling under the Electricity Market Act will also increase electricity transmission prices, because there is an opportunity to do so. I should like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs about this. Of course, there is no need for an answer — I think it is almost necessary — that we open up the electricity market law and facilitate these time horizons in terms of security of electricity supply, because at the moment it seems to be necessary to make investments in which a good network is to be eroded because of the obligations of the electricity market law, and that is not a sensible business activity, especially when this electricity market law, because of these massive investments, leads to an increase in the price of electricity, i.e. energy, for SMEs and customers, as a result of the increase in transmission prices. Would it make more sense to take a step backwards, to open up this electricity market law and to give these regional electricity companies themselves the opportunity and the means to find a way to improve the security of electricity supply?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u90	Mr President! It has been said that the Vice-President, when the matter is either related to his previous responsibilities or something like that, can speak here, and I noticed that a few of my predecessors have done so on many occasions. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to take a few thoughts of my own, but I shall try to tell you the history of what has come to this day, where we are at the moment. Before I go to that, I would like to say that this change in the electricity market has been extremely dramatic in Europe, even more widely in Europe. If you take one extreme situation at the moment, England went and gave a guaranteed price, a sort of feed-in tariff, to nuclear power at a price of about EUR 118 at 50 cents — that is, EUR 118 at 50 cents — and for decades, for three decades. At the same time, in Europe some times the price of electricity can be virtually zero, in some times virtually zero, even in the Nordic countries there are between 20 and 30 euros at the moment. There are certainly many reasons why this has happened, and one of them is that European economic development was not what was being advocated and expected some time ago, and the fact that subsidised electricity, now that demand is weak, has entered the market and, at certain times, its supply clearly exceeds its demand. But now to this matter. In Finland, at the time of Vanhanen's second government, Finland was set to meet the global climate challenge. Renewable energy, increasing it, was the main response to that challenge. It was decided to increase renewable energy by around 38 terawatt hours from 2010 to 2020. Incidentally, it was decided to increase the share of renewables to the same, 38%, as it happened now to be the same 38%, about 38 terawatt hours more renewable by 2020. In order to fill this addition, we started to move forward in a cost-effective way: First, as much water as is possible — not much — and then bio-renewable energy sources, energy options, and from them as much wood and other biomass as possible, and then, to what it was no longer sufficient, it was considered that wind power, which was then the next most advantageous, then the final objective will be achieved. The aim was that by 2020 the amount of energy in electricity would be 6 terawatt hours, which was annual production then, and installed at 2500 kilovolt amperes. They went to get it. In order to promote this wind power, a feed-in tariff system was introduced, which was proposed and presented by the best experts in the country of idea and level of support in their report. The report was completely unanimous. The matter came to Parliament, and Parliament approved the proposal of that government at the time: EUR 83 50 cents per megawatt hour is the price, the guaranteed price for 12 years, but it will be extra for the start-up by the end of 2015 so that the guaranteed price will be EUR 103 50 cent by the end of this year. This was the system we ended up with. As has been said, now the world has changed in many ways and at a level, and this change, which is presented here, is extremely well-founded. It may be worth recalling that, at the moment, the market price is between EUR 30 and 40 per megawatt hour, for example, on 1 January 2011 the market price for electricity was almost EUR 70 per megawatt hour — EUR 70 per megawatt hour. In other words, compared to the market price for electricity at that time, EUR 83 50 cents was not even very high, which was the permanent system, the level of the system that was decided at that stage. But the changes are for big reasons that have come to light here, and I'm not going to start judging how... Well, perhaps with regard to the follow-up, the government will, of course, decide on those matters. Perhaps it is worth saying here that Germany, where, for example, feed-in tariff levels have been significantly higher than in Finland — almost everywhere in central Europe — is now moving towards an auction system in which an estimate of the level to which it is based and where it still ends up exceeds what in Finland 83.50 is, because in Germany the producer of wind power is not responsible for joining the network. In Finland, the producer is responsible for joining the network, i.e. the guaranteed price. That guaranteed price is a little different here than in Germany because the cost of joining the network here can be very high per megawatt hour. Here are some recollections of how, at the time, this matter started and the level that was reached and the basis on which it was reached. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u91	Madam President! Tomorrow is a pop-up day for electric cars and the electric cars are gathering at the Senate Square. Representative Lehti mentioned that one of the problems with wind power is that it is difficult to store, but electronic transport, for example, might be a good place for it. It is reported that all traffic in Finland could be converted into electronics and would require only about 10 terawatt hours of electricity generation. Passenger transport could be electrified by about 5 terawatt hours. So it's not about more than that. At the same time, when oil is imported to Finland at current prices of around 6 billion euros per year, this would be a good opportunity to combine wind power production with an attempt to speed up electronic transport as well, because it is an excellent place to store electricity produced by wind power. In addition, it would be highly intelligent for the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u92	Madam President! As Mr Vartia has said here, we still have to build that spare capacity if not the wind, so that those electric buses and electric cars can be loaded after the lithium battery has been emptied, which means that the same amount of other capacity must be made for each energy unit produced by the wind power plant, which is independent of the wind. This leads to double capacity as a rule. Well, I would like to hear the reasons for this from a representative who disagrees. It's different if you're willing to tolerate the fact that you don't have energy. The whole basic problem is that this feed-in tariff is leading to the wrong strategy. There is no point in making electricity in the wind; in the wind it is worth making heat, which can be recovered as a rule, and it is not worth trying to achieve as high a share of wind power as was originally determined. Electricity should certainly be made primarily with hydropower, but also with others. The wind is the weakest in this competitive situation if you have to make electricity. Even on the electricity side, I think that solar panels, which are developing at a tremendous rate over a period of 10 to 20 years, will produce such a large part that the overall supply can be in considerable difficulty if households actually start to switch to self-generated power generation through solar panels and the production of heat energy through wind without supply tariffs and a self-sufficiency economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u93	Mr President! Now that we are going through these aftermath of the social pact and are trying to improve competitiveness, however, I would like to highlight this joint Nordic energy cooperation. It is clear that Norway here is the strongest and is able to run its own industry with relatively low electricity prices because 99 % of electricity is produced in Norway by hydropower, and in Sweden it is also significantly high, about half. However, we should now consider this ownership and nature of the national Fingrid, even in the light of the fact that these cross-border connections should be strengthened even further in order to allow more electricity to be transferred, because these regional price differences are somewhat awkward. These prices are almost 100 per cent higher in Finland on the best days, and this cannot by any means be in the interest of Finnish industry or competitiveness. We need to pay greater attention to these and see where and with what time horizon it is possible to improve this. The second, then, relates to this competitiveness, of course, is always the price of energy, especially for SMEs. There was talk of peat, and it may be that it is a polluting form of energy, but nevertheless a supported form of energy, because we have flue-gas scrubbers and many others then exist in these large power plants. Since our energy production is very much based on counter-pressure production and peat and wood make a reasonable couple for many reasons, so if we tackle hard coal completely out of the fuels we use, we will certainly increase the price of heat and perhaps electricity in such times when there are bad peat years and we cannot collect peat, and if there still happens to be a bad forest cycle, when this wood energy is a little poorly available, what on earth are we burning and what is the price for SMEs and industry? Somehow you keep your feet in the country in Finnish energy policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u94	Madam President! To Mr Lehde, it is these electric cars that create the buffer, because there is no such situation coming up, where all the cars are connected to the wall at the same time and they should be loaded at the same time. They can only be loaded at those windy moments. And even if it happens that all the cars are empty at the same time and should be loaded at the same time, we are buying electricity from abroad today and this country has not yet fallen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u95	Mr President! I will try to remain in the previous portfolio — at the time when these things were being prepared — and on the question of how much adjustment power is needed when there is wind. First of all, Germany hardly needs it at all, because its wind production is so scattered around the country that there is always wind on one side — I had the opportunity to be at the invitation of the German Government, as a representative The paper knows, last autumn, to get to know the German system, although I felt it before, and it goes that way there. In Finland, in 2009, I was able to find out both VTT and Aalto University how much adjustment power is needed if there is 2,500 kilovolt amperes of wind power. These were not able to reach an agreement. One said that 240 megawatts or kilovolt amperes, they are almost the same, and the other said that 420. But neither of them were anywhere near 2,500. So 240 and 420 megawatts were the estimates they estimated. As far as these electric cars are concerned, so too was the case a few years ago, of course, with electric cars, but also with the production of renewable liquid fuels, because it takes years, even decades, to get the electric car fleet into the country, but the existing combustion engines can burn renewable bio-based fuel immediately. That is why the law on liquid renewable fuels was enacted at the time of Vanhanen’s second government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u96	Mr President! For example, follow the weather data, how extensive the high pressure can be in Finland and how long it can take. High pressure can also occur when there is a high frost, and often when it is high pressure, then no wind. Then the energy consumption will be the highest of all. In fact, Mr Vartia replied that it could be bought, but then someone has built its capacity. It is true what Mr Pekkarinen said, that in a large country, such as Germany, where there is a variety of landscapes and airflows — unlike in Finland, where western air flow, south-west, is dominant — there are, as a rule, different situations in different continents and that this energy production can be balanced, but not in Finland. Yes, there is either low pressure or high pressure in Finland, and then there is a situation where there is no energy. What do you do then? Then, of course, the capacity can be purchased elsewhere, but it will also cost. But all this thinking, that we're trying to solve the electricity in the wind, is, in my opinion, the fundamental mistake. It is worth trying to achieve this heat production, and for the first time it would also provide district heating customers with an appropriate alternative to getting rid of district heat pricing. As chairman of the board of the energy company, I know that the customer does not have much slack when he has moved to district heat once: then he has to pay for what the district heating company owes for it. And as a result, it would actually be essential that the district heating network should also be built in the same way, that everyone should be able to produce and distribute the energy produced by everyone, such as the electricity grid at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u97	Mr President! More than two thirds of wind power producers' income is taken directly from taxpayers. Hydroelectric electricity is at least as environmentally friendly as wind power and much cheaper than life-cycle costs. In addition, wind power is often marketed by talking about theoretical maximum power, although under Finnish conditions the actual energy output of wind turbines is only about 20 per cent of the calculated maximum. The market economy should also function in terms of energy production and consumption, and tax or subsidies should not cause major distortions. Energy policy must also contribute to the development and construction of smart electricity grids and electricity systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u98	Mr President! This government proposal is so good that it now closes this and it gives us the opportunity to gain experience, when we look a little further, about how much these mills will then last under Finnish conditions and how they can then be restored to good condition and whether we see such situations that, at the end of the day, who will be responsible for dismantling this whole mill and perhaps moving away, which may not be quite cheap either. I would also like to take part in this overall energy debate to the extent that good speeches have been made here on behalf of the electric car and I personally see that there should be higher and more ambitious targets in Finland for transport using domestic energy. I myself have often wondered if a good goal could be 2035. Ninety per cent of passenger car traffic is transported by domestic energy, which means different-looking biodiesels and, of course, electricity. Personally, I think that these electric cars will start coming to the market much faster now that we get started, and especially in larger cities there should be more of these charging points, and then in rural areas there should be more hybrids to charge. That this development is now going in that direction, and these traditional internal combustion engines are gradually beginning to remain in the minority.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u99	Madam President! Now that there is a minister here, I recall from 78 C.E. the money of the predecessor of his ministry, the then Ministry of Trade and Industry, which the city of Kerava took advantage of by building a solar village. It had about 40 apartments with a collective collection point, about 1,000 cubic metres of underground water, and in all houses a 60 - tilted solar cell system that heated the water. The project was quite successful until this underground tank started to leak and the project was abandoned. However, the current support system supports the technology on which the exploitation of this feed-in tariff is based, and then these big rotors will be built through its subsidy money. No one is interested in building a system suitable for a small house because it does not have this feed-in tariff support. As a result, in my opinion, the ministry would make an excellent decision if it were to return this kind of development money, in order to get this kind of small-scale, suitable for households or agriculture, wind-powered, heat-generating, water-heating system on the market. Now this system does not support that development at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u100	Representative Halmenpää, and then Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u101	Madam President! In fact, I shall pick up a little on the subject from which Mr Lehti has just opened the debate. There was talk of self-sufficient and sufficiently small production, which is currently not sufficiently supported and which has not taken off. I fully agree with that, and now that a little of the energy theme is already being touched on in general, I would like to highlight the point of view of this subject. I visited my own town in Kalajoki on Monday this week with a large pig farm, and, as we all know, the profitability of agriculture is in great distress. This farm owner did wonder and update that, although they do have enough manure or that bio-production, there is no way to make a farm-size biogas plant, let alone biofuels, if there is talk of machinery, so that perhaps something needs to be done in that area too, and not just in the area of the wind-power feed-in tariff. As for the adjustment force and what is done if the wind is not, it is good to remember that no one in this country has ever imagined that the earth would be turned in the wind. But it is part of the palette of renewable energy that I believe we all want in this house. We have affordable, even very cheap, control power on the joint Nordic electricity market, however much. I see no reason not to use that control force, and in this regard I would like to compromise Mr Eestilä, who talked about strengthening the interconnections. By comparison, I would like to give an example from Äänekoski, where the largest bioproduct plant in the world is being built. Yesterday, at the seminar at the Forest Academy, I heard that this plant will produce 1.8 terawatt hours of electricity per year — 1.8 terawatt hours per year. Five of these would already produce 9 terawatt hours on an annual basis, i.e. one large planned nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-10-ps-31.u102	Mr President! Thank you to the representatives and the Vice-President for a very competent and relevant debate and for many ideas, as well as for the relatively broad support for the government proposal. I sense that the majority of the government parties and some of the opposition can support this government's proposal, which I am very pleased about. This is good because we need very long-term and consistent action on issues of national importance, such as energy policy. Since this is not Question Time, I am not trying to answer all the questions or very technical questions either, but instead I am trying to comment as a bundle on perhaps the most relevant questions of energy policy and energy economy that emerged in this debate. The first is that there is a need for confidence in policy coherence in energy policy and in renewable energy production, so that we can achieve our ambitious ambitions over the next 10 to 20 years or beyond. In this regard, it is very important that we ensure that the investment environment remains stable. That is why it is important in this proposal — to which a number of representatives also referred — that we have a clearly defined last time to apply for this aid under the wind energy feed-in system, which is therefore two years away. At the same time, it is also important that we have a clear regulation on when production aid will be paid for the last time: at the turn of 2030. This means that after the light, the spike is no longer open. This aid scheme is temporary, it is intended to be so, and at a time when technology is developing and production costs are falling, we assume that wind power is self-profitable. Mr Eestilä raised the question of the Nordic and European common market, to which Mr Halmemenpää also referred. I fully agree that we should develop these, which is an important part of our energy policy as a whole, and in this context we must pay particular attention to the development of interconnections with other Nordic countries, particularly Sweden. Secondly, several representatives rightly drew attention to the way in which costs can be contained in this system as well. That is also the reason why this had to be done quite immediately after the government's work started and did not start waiting for the overall reform of the renewable energy support system. In other words, when it was known that costs on the ground are very high very quickly, it was intended to ensure that the burden on taxpayers does not become too great. In this respect, it should be noted that these changes are expected to achieve the target of the Government Programme, which will be conservatively estimated at the 2020 level for savings of between EUR 70 and 80 million. This calculation also takes into account the fact that the power-generating megawatt of a wind power plant is in reality somewhat, perhaps even a fifth, lower than: President! To conclude, in response to Mr Sarkkinen's important question, this overall reform of renewable energy subsidies will begin in the autumn and we will try to do so in parallel with the preparation of the national energy and climate strategy.
