ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! For years I have served as an official in the courts and for the last nine years as a lawyer and foreman of the Local Register Office of Eastern Uusimaa. This reform now before us is clear in itself, and this in itself does not arouse any great passions. It clarifies the jurisdiction of the Local Register Office in matters mentioned in the sections of the law. However, I would like to draw attention to the point that came to my mind here when I immediately studied these documents as an official of the Local Register Office — I thought, ‘Aha, now I’m getting into my own field.’ It is important for all of us that the arguments behind the drafting of legislation, in particular the government's proposal and the committees' reports, are clear and unambiguous. It would have been fruitful in this government proposal to have been told about these when the statements of Juko ry, JHL and Pardia's Association of Employees and the statements of the Local Register Office, although very briefly how they have reacted, were positive or negative. Of course, I got this information when I called the legislative counsel. The reasons for the government's proposal and the committees' reports are important. It should be noted that the authorities applying the laws, including the Court of Justice, use government proposals to interpret the law, as they are very high in the hierarchy of standards, as guidelines for the interpretation of the law. They always reflect the will and purpose of the Parliament. I therefore ask that, during this parliamentary term, we Members of Parliament remember, when it comes to legislating, that a mere set of standards is not the only thing that those who apply the laws need. The better the arguments are, the less uncertainty of interpretation and the more uniform application by the authorities will be. I would also ask all of us to read carefully the statements made by the agencies themselves on legislative projects. I myself have responded to several referrals from the ministries over the years, and there have sometimes been a slight feeling that anyone will read them, because there has been no mention of them in the final legislative drafting documents. It should be noted that law enforcement authorities often have the best knowledge of the problems that arise in practice and many good ideas for solving them. I'm sure they've been read somewhere, but if their weight is only a brief mention of the bill's work and the law is still very different from what was proposed in the opinion, it's the opinion's feeling that it's useless to write these when no one reads them. This means that the legislator does not have a valuable knowledge of what the civil servants feel is very good there at grass-roots level. We must bear in mind that we are constantly calling on the courts and the authorities to provide high-quality arguments, in which the various aspects have to be carefully weighed. On the other hand, Parliament, as the legislator, must pay attention to its own arguments for legislating, so that they are also of high quality and informative, as we expect from the arguments of the officials and judges who apply them. Mr President! Here we have a good guide for the coming parliamentary term, i.e. good legislative work is being done in Parliament with good arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by 25 September 2015 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u5	Mr President! The Government's Annual Report drew attention to the effectiveness and performance programme currently under way in the state administration, which gives an idea of a fine programme to achieve huge savings through the pooling of agencies, the creation of electronic programmes and the reduction of human resources. On page 18 it is mentioned that savings of 400 million will be achieved by 2020. As I said in my previous speech, I have been in supervisory positions with different authorities for years and have been carrying out various organisational changes. I agree that efficiency and productivity should be sought with the optimal size of the agencies and with various electronic services. However, I would like to bring to your attention aspects of practical life that do not appear here. The network of courts has been reduced and I have followed closely the merger of the Riihimäki District Court a few years ago. The transition period lasted two years before one building was built, as the district court had to renovate the new premises in Hyvinkää office building. The organisation of work was very difficult in two different agencies, and customers too sometimes got involved in the fact that both district courts had to go to the place of the hearing. Remote management and other management were also difficult. It was also more expensive than working in one place. Therefore, when merger decisions are taken in the agencies, it should be ensured in advance what is the reasonable time to also have premises to move to. At the moment, there are additional associations of district courts. I think these kind of merges should be done at once and not do all the time with new combinations. This would be cheaper and would also be more humane for workers and also for customers who cannot keep up with what their own court is at any time. In addition, simply cutting down offices does not help the court’s lengthy handling times and the judges’ cases while, at the same time, staffing is being cut off in the courts. Many times the processing times are several months. Last autumn we were also able to read how judges are at the end of the story. If the parties so wish, the courts will have to arrange for the main hearing of the week in the interests of both EUR 100 and EUR 10000. I think we could consider different research thresholds or forced mediation in small disputes. Electronic systems are also mentioned here as a good tool. Yes, that is true, but they should be for good tools. I know a lot of district judges and I have heard from them that the so-called "Ritu" system in the courts of a few years has slowed down the practical work enormously, even though it was probably the other way around. One practical example is that in the past, a ticket could be written by hand in a sitting in a few minutes, now it requires that the whole sentence be written on the machine, and it takes a great deal of time, and this will stiffen and slow the work down, and that is probably not the intention. I would also like everyone to read this press release of the Finnish Union of Judges on 22 May 2015, published from their meeting now in Turku in May. It is precisely this that calls for the courts to have sufficient resources and calls for an independent judicial office to be set up to investigate these resources and this overall situation so that it is not just a patchwork of legislation. I would just like to say a few words about the Local Register Office and about the general lobbying of the Legal Aid Office, which was also mentioned here: Local register offices have also been drastically reduced in recent years. I myself have been in supervisory work there and in addition to my own substance work, I have had to implement all these reforms. This time has been out of the actual work, as all the time spent combining is out of the work that should be done for customers and will further reduce its productivity. Well, it is planned to reunite the Local Register Offices with the Local Register Offices of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. And again the same thing that happens in the courts, that they are pinched every two years. We'll do it once and for all if we do it, and we won't have all the time burdening that machine with a combination. I would like to call for us to reduce those jobs if we genuinely want to improve productivity and productivity. The law requires certain procedures from the authorities. In the Local Register Office, these include, for example, waiving the audit of public interest representatives in legal aid offices. The Local Register Office is the only authority in Finland that inspects all the thousands of legal acts taken by another authority on behalf of its client. It takes a lot of man-years a year. It doesn't make any sense. Then I would also like to say that, when the activities of public interest representatives were combined with the Legal Aid Office, it has in practice made the work of many difficult. So I, too, wrote a statement to the Justice Department about this and I know that many legal counsels wrote it, but it was apparently not read because this law went through as such. In other words, when public lobbyists and public legal advisers are staff of the same office, they are subject to the same rules of accessibility. And now that so many agencies have been brought together, it is often the case that, for example, a well-retailed client gets a guardian in Lahti, when it is the only agency with no barriers that can offer one. Here again, from what I said in my previous speech, it is worth reading the statements made by the agencies, because there is information about the practice it leads to. Now there have been more and more combinations of legal aid offices, and we have been laughing at the local register office in the past that it is probably time to pick up the unhindered guardian from Lapland. I would also like to remind you that we do not always have to think about what can be reduced, but we could also think about additional income. I do not know how you feel about this, but for years the local register office's personal writers and chiefs have been pointing out that civil marriage at the local register office and its diplomas are completely free of charge for all the citizens of the world. In the case of a person who comes from abroad, for example, examinations of obstacles often take hours away from our local register office lawyers. With a payment of a few ten euros, this would bring the revenue of hundreds of thousands of euros to the Local Register Office each year. Let us remember that no one will be able to do more than that, no matter how much we spank people, and it would be desirable for the competent workforce to continue to be brought to the courts and to the state's expert offices. The impact and performance programme also includes the development of human capital, which includes good managerial work and improving the working capacity of all. In the fascination of combining, employees should not be forgotten if they are to have the best possible and motivated work input. The constant change puts a tremendous strain on people and reduces their well-being at work. For the customer, an office network must be sufficient. In that $400 million savings target, I was left with the question that it would also be interesting to get data on the costs of all these combinations, whether it has calculated this net expense. That's not where I came from. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that when we combine the agencies, we do it at once and also genuinely reduce the number of statutory tasks. This also reduces the bureaucracy of customers, when not everything should be strengthened or audited by the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u6	Mr President! Mr Meri was quite right when he challenged the whole of the productivity and effectiveness programme. However, a little history must be recalled: Before the beginning of the previous parliamentary term, the State productivity programme was unambiguously only a programme to reduce the number of man-years. The targets had been set for how many thousand jobs need to be removed from the state administration, and this reduction was also achieved through outsourcing measures which, after examination, became much more expensive for the State, i.e. from the point of view of productivity, were very negative. The representative, Meri, was also right that in the state administration, both in court and elsewhere, the staff are quite tired of the fact that processes are going on all the time, the organisational reforms are going on all the time. It certainly occurs to me many times that when you have time to do the actual work when you have a constant turmoil. In other words, well-being at work must be taken seriously in these productivity and effectiveness programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u7	Mr President! That is exactly where Mr Uotila spoke, which I myself was going to say. However, Mr Meri mentioned in his own speech that these Local Register Offices are being combined in the capital region and what pain it will bring. Not only does it concern the capital region, but there is now a plan in Kymenlaakso, for example, to connect the local register office of Kotka with Kouvola. I understand that sometimes you have to look for savings, but it's a brilliant idea, which is a representative. The sea, at the end of its speech, pointed out that if, for example, payment were to be collected for marriage at the local register office, which is now free of charge, and then if this investigation of impediments to marriage, especially in the case of foreigners, could be collected, then perhaps there would be no need for any further closure or consolidation of those local register offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u8	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Meri raised a very important issue of information management, and he mentioned the Ritu programme. Similar unhappy systems have been developed quite a lot. One such is the Flash, who has contributed to the snail’s speed in blocking many systems. That is why we really need to think about whether the state IT administration and these systems are at the level they should be. And if we look to the future, given that it is precisely in this ict sector that large savings are also being made, then it is certainly now appropriate to consider whether we should even freeze the expenditure, investment, procurement, programme procurement, if they are not at the level of their tasks, i.e. provide the service they should actually do. Now, in many areas of government, there have been similar problems with blockages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u9	Let's get back to the actual list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u10	Mr President! We are discussing the Government's Annual Report for 2014. We will look at the events of the last parliamentary term and last year. This week we will also hear more about the news of the coming year and the parliamentary term. I am picking up points from the report that can and certainly will be learned for the future. During the last parliamentary term, there were a total of 30 different people in charge of the ministry. Some moved aside during the parliamentary term, while the left-wing union and the Greens left the government, some moved completely to other tasks outside the parliament, and some parties recycled their ministers after a couple of years. Such a large number and their turnover cannot be justified in terms of effective management of matters. The starting point should be that the person elected as Minister should carry out his duties for four years, which is also a very short period of time. Of the 30 persons in charge of the ministry, only seven were ministers for the whole parliamentary term. Only four of them were on the same mission from start to finish. The starting point of the future government is better. There are only three parties instead of six. Future ministerial choices must be based on the fact that the elected person is in office for four years. The objective of reducing the number of ministers must also be supported. After all, the pressure has generally been in the opposite direction: there should be a minister for every matter that is considered important. In terms of leadership, it's a problem. The Minister's job is demanding. It must not be a reward for other merits. The expertise and activity of the Minister is essential for Finland’s success. The whole mutual trust of the Government and the permanence of persons are fundamental factors in Finland's success. If a large company had two different CEOs in four years, plus 29 other managers, only four of whom would have remained in the same position all the time, the company would be a crisis company. According to the annual report, Finland has aspects of the crisis. The sustainability gap was not closed during the parliamentary term and the central government debt ratio was not reversed. Economic growth was weak, and forecasts are not much better. Exports of goods collapsed between 2008 and 2009 and have recovered little from it. The reduction of the tasks and obligations of municipalities was challenging and the objective was not achieved. The reform of the war has not been carried out. The increase in tax revenue was subdued. The new government, elected ministers and Parliament have a lot to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u11	Mr President! The Government’s Annual Report 2014 page 31 states that, in accordance with the Government Programme, police services are secured throughout the country. Special attention has been paid to the availability of police services in different parts of the country, as well as to traffic control and road safety. The Annual Report on Administrative Structure Reform states that the Pora III project has made good progress towards and as planned. The report can at least be called into question, or the objectives and plans have been very modest. At least this reform has not been in the interests of taxpayers until this spring. If, for example, good local police visibility and knowledge of the region means that there is no physical police patrol at night in parts of the regions, I do not believe that sufficient visibility can be spoken of. In sparsely populated areas, such as Eastern and Northern Finland, part of police surveillance and alert activities have been secured for several years in cooperation with the Border Guard. Without this cooperation, adequate security services would often have been a mere wish. In this way, police visibility has been secured in sparsely populated Finland in 2014 and the situation is 2015 today, no matter what. I do not think that is enough. Right at the beginning of Pora III, the costs of the police administration rose so that only wage increases at the national level caused the need for a reduction in the staffing year of 65 to 70 field police officers. This increase in the cost of salary increases for the administrative and staff level has been reported to be temporary by the Police Board, as part of the administration is retiring on a timetable. It should be noted that it will take a long time for the administration to contract so much that the administrative costs at least reach the baseline level. The purpose of the reform was to save administrative costs, not to increase them. This will not be possible by the end of 2016, although we are assured in this Government's Annual Report. 72 per cent of respondents in the study commissioned by the Evening Economic Survey 2015 at week 9 felt that police services were not available on an equal basis. Only 1% of Finns believe that Parliament was very successful in its goal of guaranteeing police services. Eleven per cent of Finns have absolutely no confidence that the police will be able to help in a time of need. So, with a good conscience, you might ask: is this what we pay fair taxes for, and is it even necessary for those living in remote areas? According to the 2014 police barometer, the police are still, among other things, clearly the most important element in improving the security of the local community, and I believe that this should continue to be the case. We want to be Europeans. Why are we not also doing so with regard to access to police services? Finland has the lowest number of police officers per citizen in Europe. The European average is one police officer per 400 inhabitants. In Finland, the ratio is one police officer per 733 inhabitants. Over the last four years, the number of police officers in Finland has decreased by around 400, while at the same time the number of alerts has been rising sharply. Mr President! I would also like to highlight the current state of traffic control. The abolition of the mobile police has led to a worrying reduction in traffic control. As far as 2014 is concerned, it can be noted from official police statistics that the control of heavy traffic, for example, has decreased by 12.8% compared to the previous year. During the January, February and March period of this year, traffic control has decreased by 12.3 per cent in Finland as a whole during the corresponding period of the year before and by 20.3 per cent in heavy traffic. This was not the aim of the reform of the police administrative structure. The aim was to maintain the level of traffic control at the 2012 level, from which it is now quite distant. If the reform of the police’s administrative structure has been designed to improve efficiency, it has been achieved by reducing the number of alerts to police personnel. The current number of police officers does not have time to monitor traffic in accordance with the objectives. It's just rushing from one alarm mission to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u12	Mr President! What better time could it be to discuss and evaluate the activities and measures of the government in the previous year than right now, on the eve of the publication of the new Government Programme? In a situation where the outgoing government failed to meet its key objectives in terms of reducing unemployment and stabilising public finances, it is at least appropriate to assess why this happened. A wise politician is one who stops to judge why the political measures taken did not produce the desired and expected results. As reported in the Government's Annual Report, the three main government priorities were the prevention of poverty, inequality and exclusion, fiscal consolidation and strengthening sustainable economic growth, employment and competitiveness. Although positive decisions were taken at the beginning of the last term, such as the increase in the level of basic security and the elimination of the spouse’s income in terms of labour market support, the Government decided in its spending limits period at the beginning of 2014 to cut the index increases to basic security and pensions. This cut thus weakened the financial position of low-income students, the unemployed and pensioners. Apart from the fact that this decision weakened the purchasing power of low incomes, it was clearly at odds with poverty, inequality and the prevention of exclusion. In February, the European Social Rights Committee, after discussing a complaint on the subject, announced that the minimum level of social security benefits in Finland was insufficient. The National Institute for Health and Welfare came to the same conclusion in its own assessment of the adequacy of basic security published at the beginning of the year. According to it, basic security in Finland is still inadequate in relation to reasonable minimum consumption. With regard to fiscal consolidation, the annual report speaks for itself: both the deficit, unemployment and indebtedness continued to grow. Instead of sustainable economic growth and improved employment, GDP contracted in 2014, while in the Government's draft budget in autumn 2013 it was estimated to increase further by 1.2%. Private, domestic and foreign demand contracted. Mr President! The Government’s annual report for 2014 well shows how the current economic policy stance has been plagued, above all, by two factors: the repeated overly optimistic estimates of economic growth and economic developments, the lack of cyclical policies and the continuation of adjustment despite the continuing deterioration of the economic situation. Despite the fact that none of the objectives set for economic policy has been achieved, further adjustment and tax reductions are generally justified by the fact that taxes have not been sufficiently adjusted and reduced. But how long should we wait before we can demand at least some promised results? How much of the financial base for welfare services should be reduced in anticipation of the dynamic effects that may arise at some point in time? In a report published at the beginning of the year, among other things, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council noted that the tightening of fiscal policy for 2015 was significant in relation to the cyclical situation and added as its own recommendation the call to avoid further tightening of economic policy in the current cyclical situation, as it is likely to lead to an increase in unemployment. As reported in the Board’s Annual Report 2014, private consumption, private investments and investments in construction and equipment decreased. Without public demand, which increased last year, we would probably be facing even deeper economic problems. Mr President! These are a few facts that must be taken into account when discussing the economic picture. Perhaps the poor results are due to the fact that the situation picture is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u13	Mr President! This Government Annual Report tells the raw truth about the situation in which Finland has lived and where we live. The economy still seems challenging. The economy has fallen and exports have stopped when domestic demand is also weak. The employment situation is difficult and unemployment affects more and more families, but also young people. I am raising the issue of homelessness and the fight against it from this government's annual report. The long-term homelessness reduction programme has certainly reduced long-term homelessness, but the situation of young people remains challenging. Among other things, the capital region has more than a thousand homeless persons under the age of 25. In fact, a project to combat homelessness has been developed in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, which is designed to ensure that by 2018 we will no longer have homeless young people. The result of exclusion is that there is no place to study, and it means that a young person can't find a place in society, and that's what homelessness is about. We must therefore do everything we can to ensure that the exclusion of young people continues to be considered very seriously. Furthermore, in the future attention must continue to be paid to the fight against the shadow economy. It has been good and proper in the past. Social and health services must be made work for everyone. Child welfare is also what needs to be monitored all the time and resources allocated to it. The Social Welfare Act has just entered into force, and it is very good because it aims at prevention, and it has been created as a result of, among other things, the case of little Eerika. Prevention is a good way to prevent exclusion and people's hopelessness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u14	Mr President! On page 15 of the Government’s Annual Report 2014, poverty, inequality and exclusion are discussed. The paragraph states that the level of basic security has improved during the Government's term of office, and the main factor in this was the increase in unemployment allowance and income support made in 2012. The removal of the spouse’s needs test and the inclusion of student support in the index were also historic decisions of the past term. As a result of improvements in basic security, poverty and income disparities have not increased, the report states. Decisions to improve basic security were among the best and most important decisions of the regime and were strongly promoted by the left in the government. Even though there were bad decisions and failures in the past, these decisions can truly be proud. On the other hand, we cannot be proud of the decisions taken in the spring of 2014 which forced the Left Alliance to leave the government. In the spring of 2014, the government turned its sled and began cutting the poorest by cutting the indexes and child supplements of basic security. We did not accept cuts to basic security, so we had to jump out of the government sled. Mr President! We are now in the hands of a note crisis, as is clear from page 15 of the report. The Council of Europe has sent a note to Finland condemning Finland for being too low a level of basic security. The inadequacy of basic security is commonplace for people who stand in bread queues and whose income is not sufficient for rent and billing. They know that without the notes, but hopefully the note will wake us up here in Parliament and in Smolna. Despite the Noot, government formation parties are now planning to re-cut the indexes of basic security and may ask how sustainable social policy it is in a situation where the level of basic security has already been found inadequate. Mr President! When looking at last year's economic figures, we cannot ignore the gap in the budget of the corporate tax rebate, which is about 800 million. The Left Alliance was in the government's process of accepting a large reduction in corporation tax but even then doubted whether the big rebate would be reasonable and if the promised dynamic effects would be expected. At least by considering the Board's activity report there are no dynamic effects unless redundancies and large dividends are calculated as such. More effective enterprise and employment policies could be targeted at SMEs. It should be borne in mind that VAT increases are poison to medium-sized and small enterprises, but most of the jobs in recent times have been created. Growth should be supported rather by investing in research and development: putting shots in innovation policy and encouraging companies to invest through fiscal measures and subsidies. Mr President! At least now, when looking at the 2014 activity report, it appears that the heavy fall in corporate tax was an inefficient contribution to growth and employment compared to its price. I hope the future proves otherwise. I hope, however, that lessons will be drawn from this when we look at future growth and employment policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u15	Mr President! The Government's Annual Report and its annexes provide sufficiently comprehensive information on the achievement of the societal impact targets set out in the 2014 budget. Unfortunately, my own view, which is partly in line with the criticism expressed by the National Audit Office, does not support this view. My own criticism is directed at effectiveness indicators, which in many places are poorly built. Even more so, I criticise the lack of impact assessments in the decision-making process in general and its justification. In the long term, we have seen the cost of a policy in which impact assessments are not made over a long period of time, but decisions are based on rapid savings. Fast profits are a very expensive policy. However, I do not believe that any of us parliamentarians or future ministers in this economic situation want more costs even ten years from now. For example, preventive action has been extensively studied. It is undoubtedly the most advantageous way to look after the well-being of our citizens. Alcohol alone costs Finland's public finances between EUR 5 and 13 billion annually. Many experts say that the best alcohol policy is excellent early childhood education and day care and basic education. In various parts of Finland we are now talking about school varnishing. I looked into the economic impact of school lacquering, and to my amazement I learned that there is a total lack of research into the financial monitoring of school lacquering in Finland. However, for decades we have had, in our country, the Education Evaluation Council, the current Education Evaluation Centre, whose main task is to produce studies specifically related to education policy-making. Decisions related to school networks in Finland have been based solely on mud data, as no research or monitoring data on the actual realisation of savings have been available. The state of education in Finland has not made decisions based on knowledge, even though it concerns the well-being of many children and families and the basis of education. The National Audit Office has calculated that one young person who is excluded will cost EUR 1.2 million. The South Ostrobothnia Child Family Services project calculated that the cost of preventive work so that young people do not interrupt their studies and thus may not be excluded is just over EUR 11,000. Finland can no longer afford decisions that are made without adequate impact assessments. Information on impacts is needed not only in the long term, but also in the short term. An example of this is compensation for last season's cuts in child allowances with a complex reduction in the number of children, which increased bureaucracy, and therefore the savings did not materialise. It seems that the future prime minister will announce the responsibility of the politicians for the results. Hopefully, this will also mean that next season decisions will be taken on the basis of knowledge and will be driven by a lot of long lights instead of short lights.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u16	Mr President! The Government’s Annual Activity Report for 2014 shows inconsolably the state in which Finland’s public finances have been hit by the financial crisis that broke out in 2008 and the subsequent euro crisis. In less than a decade, government debt has doubled to more than EUR 100 billion and central government finances have remained permanently in deficit. The mudstorming of the Finnish economy does not know well in the near future, when the cost of ageing our population will increasingly burden public finances as growing social and health expenditures. The new government, now appointed on Friday, must take a new stance in economic policy and strive to use all possible economic and fiscal policy instruments in the coming four-year period to stimulate Finland's new growth path. Mr President! As a result of the double recession that began in 2012, Finland is in danger of getting on the Greek road. Finland’s chronic government deficit and the level of public debt explosion are leading to the fact that the economy of a model student of the former economy will soon not be separated from that of a Mañana-type economy in the countries of southern Europe, which prefers to leave bad things to be decided tomorrow, when the situation is already in crisis. On the basis of the economic discipline agreements concluded by Finland itself, the EU Commission has given Finland a serious warning a few weeks ago about the economic management of our country regarding the government deficit and the debt level. By the way, the Economic Discipline Agreement has also been adopted by the Left Alliance, whose lines have since been suggested that the agreement and its interpretation should not be applied in practice. If the soon-to-be new government fails to reverse the direction of the economy in a reasonably short period of time, there is a risk that we will be subject to disciplinary measures by the Commission and that we will have a severe course of public finances in accordance with the powerful orders of the bureaucrats in Brussels, which would inevitably reduce the average level of material well-being in Finland. Mr President! The only way to avoid this coercion in Brussels is now, unlike previous governments, to implement a blue and white industrial and fiscal policy in order to balance our public finances and create new growth and work for the Finnish people. We can either do the cuts ourselves or we can expect the EU Commission to decide on them in practice on our behalf. We should choose the first option. With the accession of the Economic and Monetary Union, independent monetary policy instruments are not in our toolbox and therefore at our disposal. Mr President! It is time for a conservative social policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u17	Next up, Congressman Timo Heinonen from Lope.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u18	Honored Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The past year cannot be ignored without talking about Ukraine and, above all, Russia's actions in Ukraine. The conflict in Ukraine changed our international environment significantly. This Government's report states that Russia, which is seeking a new global power position, violated the core standards of international law and the fundamental principles of European security and challenged the Western world of values. Russia joined by military action The Crimean Peninsula itself with a rapid political-military operation. Although peace has been sought and the negotiations in Minsk have taken place, the situation has not stabilised so that we can even plan to lift the sanctions. The crisis has therefore led to a radical change in relations between the EU and Russia. The EU imposed progressively tightened restrictive measures on Russia. They have been designed to put pressure on Russia to find a political solution to the conflict. However, Russia has not acted in the desired way. All key processes, such as visa discussions, negotiations on a new treaty between the EU and Russia, have had to be suspended and there are no conditions for their continuation at the moment. It is noteworthy that events in Ukraine also led to a deterioration in the humanitarian and human rights situation at the end of last year. Finland has been an active helper in this work. In fact, Finland became one of the biggest contributors to the monitoring mission, including in terms of human resources, and last year Finland provided EUR 6.4 million in support to Ukraine. It has become clear that the crisis in Ukraine is not a rapidly passing phase. In one way or another, it will also be visible in the situation in our own country for a long time to come. Relations between Russia and the Western community will certainly remain tense for this year and for several years to come. This will also have a long-term impact on our country's foreign and security policy and also on its wider international position and on the EU's common foreign and security policy. Mr President! I would like to thank the government of our country and, above all, the President of the Republic of our country for the good, active management of foreign policy, even in this crisis. Finland’s key strategic objectives, the coherence of the EU’s common foreign and security policy, have been strongly highlighted, and as the crisis progresses, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have held discussions with both the Russian and Ukrainian leadership. So we have made use of those desirable and good Finnish bilateral relations to the extent that they are possible in this type of situation. So the efforts made by Finland have been made on many fronts, and we cannot fail to mention the remarkable work done by Mr Kanerva in the leadership of the OSCE either. The Finnish Government participated in the preparation of sanctions policy in close cooperation with other Member States, the Commission and the European External Action Service. Although this has been criticised for being involved in this policy of sanctions, it is appropriate to ask the critics what would have been the right solution. Should we have ignored Russian military or military activities against an independent state, insults to the regions of an independent country, actions in Crimea and other regions? I don't think so. The options will then be scarce and sanctions will have been used for these options. However, under the current circumstances, the cooperation between Finland and Russia has had to be reassessed and, among other things, the bilateral high-level meetings have had to be reduced and cancelled, and I think that has also been the right solution in this situation. But that does not remove the fact that Russia is an important trading partner for us at the moment. Russian tourists will continue to come to Finland even though their number has decreased, as well as other cooperation between our countries, as well as among companies. Mr President! It has to be said that we do not currently have the opportunity to talk about lifting sanctions. Personally, I do not know what should happen in the end, that we could talk about lifting sanctions. There is certainly cause for discussion, of course, about peace and stability in Ukraine, but the solution to the Crimea situation is also part of this whole. Mr President! This government's annual report is surprisingly small, in fact totally missing events by the terrorist organisation Daesh in Syria, Iraq and Levant. Isil has terrorised this region and has also brought about a significant change in the security situation in Europe, but also in the security situation in our country. This is completely ignored by the government in its own activity report. The refugee crisis in the Mediterranean is something that is not addressed here, and the annual report does not address the growing threat in Finland, the threat of internal security, the increase in the terrorist threat and the problems of integration, some of which relate to Finns who joined the Daesh ranks. I hope, however, that these issues will not be ignored, because they will have a major impact on both the security of Europe as a whole and the future, as well as on the security of our country. Mr President! This activity report also covers the situation in our defence, including the deepening of cooperation between Finland and Sweden. I personally hope that the government that starts its work will actively and strongly reform the legislation in such a way that even that assistance or assistance can be received in the future. That is not the case at the moment. Mr President! Personally, I am concerned about Russia's actions in Ukraine and I hope that Finland will continue to work actively with the EU as well as bilateral relations with a view to a definitive solution to the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u19	Thank you, Congressman Timo Heinonen from Lope.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u20	Mr President! Mr Heinonen here wanted to express his thanks to the government; now a little criticism has to be made. Representative Saarakkala made an excellent point about the issues that are now related to Finland’s increased state debt and economic situation, and what means are required. I would particularly like to raise this issue of state debt. On page 71 is the most important pattern, if you think of ordinary Finns, is it called Finnish Finns? Here it appears that central government debt at the end of 2014 amounted to approximately EUR 95 billion, which is 47 per cent of GDP, and the increase from the previous year was nearly EUR 5.5 billion. When you look at this pattern, you can see that the blind Reetta is going in a bad direction, in which, as Mrs Saarakkala said, the Greek road is waiting. Currently, Finland’s economic growth is at the same level as Greece and Italy, for example. We should be following suit from countries such as Great Britain, where the Conservative Government just won the victory of the scoundrels. Why did the election win come? It was a responsible economic policy, to put it clichés, an adjustment to government spending, and the voters noticed that work had been created and rewarded it during the new five-year period. Over five years, more jobs were created in Britain than in other EU countries combined. It's one of the countries we need to learn to take from. Looking at page 72 of this annual report, it can be seen that in four years the nominal value of Finland’s sovereign debt has increased by EUR 20 billion. There is no way we can continue on this path. The future government here, to put it clichély, must assume its responsibilities, and whatever the composition, it must leave the economy with a heavy hand to adjust. Otherwise, my generation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u21	Mr President! The Board of Directors' Annual Report 2014 is under discussion. A more correct title for the booklet would be the Annual Report of the Governments, since last year two governments have been responsible for the government: The governments of Katainen and Stubb. I would like to make a few positive observations and a few critical questions about the foreign policy section, which Mr Lope has already talked about quite extensively. The events of last year's foreign policy are, of course, marked above all by the crisis in Ukraine in the spring. The EU approach process to Ukraine, which was internally fragmented — which subsequently emerged — ended up in large-scale and violent demonstrations in Maidan after various phases. Internal conflicts, therefore, within Ukraine, eventually led to the exile of President Yanukovych and the change of rulership after various patterns. The unrest in Ukraine also led to changes outside the country. They led to a new kind of activity on the Russian side towards Ukraine. Through its own operations, Russia violated international agreements, including when it took over the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine, even though there was a referendum there, but as much as all international agreements Russia did. Due to the crisis in Ukraine and the related Russian actions, the relationship between the EU and Russia changed, one can say dramatically. The EU Member States, Finland with them, clearly condemned Russia's action, and its states decided to impose sanctions on Russia, thereby expressing their disapproval of Russia — no one was looking for an armed expression on the EU's side. The aim of these sanctions was to bring Russia to the negotiating table to seek a political and diplomatic solution to the crisis rather than the use of weapons. When we look at the recent history of Finland, of course, this situation is dramatically new and partly the result of our being a Member State of the EU. For the first time since the war, Finland joined the anti-Russia political front clearly. Well, Finland has had its own interests under control, of course, in its relationship with Russia, it has been and will be, and not least on the commercial side, and these, of course, puzzled us how our commercial cooperation is going to be, how this will affect Finland when we are involved in these sanctions. It was expected that sanctions and the resulting counter-constraints will reduce to some extent the possibilities of Finnish exports in Russian trade. It is a big question when we have already had a decline in employment. The Government’s report — and this is a good thing — describes more clearly than elsewhere what I have seen, Finland’s objectives and successes in the negotiations on the content of sanctions. It is explained here, on page 36, how Finland participated in the preparation of sanctions policy in close contact with other Member States, the Commission and the European Union External Action Service. The impact work was based on extensive studies and discussions with both financial institutions and business, and it is reported here that Finland's commercial and economic interests were well taken into account in the negotiations. So we went to the negotiations, telling our own interests too, not just, as it were, to sign off on what the big EU Member States decide, but also to highlight our own interests. And these interests were reasonably taken into account. There was also close cooperation with industry on advice and licensing related to the enforcement of sanctions. For example, Finland did not support the inclusion of cross-border cooperation programmes in pressure measures against Russia, when Finland stressed that the programmes were intended to promote the development of border regions, a functioning and safe external border of the EU and contacts at national level. We highlighted these issues on our own side when we were considering these sanctions. And it says here — I think it is very, very clear: the EU countries have decided to exclude these cooperation programmes from the sanctions. Finland has been active. Finland has been involved in the definition of sanctions. Finland has influenced from its own perspective and managed to influence it. Mr President! This aspect of foreign policy, specifically the Ukraine crisis, would have needed at least a preliminary analysis, an assessment of the backgrounds that led to the Ukraine crisis. Such an analysis would be important because every crisis in which we have to be a party, as in this crisis, should also be able to learn something. Hopefully, such an analysis on the EU side, or why not on the Finnish side, will at some point be carried out and published. Mr President! In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ administrative sector, cuts have led to a weakening of the network of representations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has regularly expressed its concern about this. The committee has repeatedly called for the network of representations to be secured. Representations have many important tasks for Finns: They serve our people who live abroad or travel there. Secondly, good resources and a network of delegations with high expertise are a key tool for our foreign policy and diplomatic relations, diplomacy. Thirdly, and perhaps most of this has been discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during the last term, the network of representations is of key importance in promoting Finland's foreign exports. Commercial connections and groundwork through representative offices are key when we are looking for ways to increase Finland by means of export-driven growth, as we should now succeed in doing. It is important that the activities and operating model of the delegations are now being developed, even though financial savings are being put on hold. The report explains how the legislative amendment, which came into force from the beginning of 2015, will enable new operating models to operate effectively even with smaller resources. The focus of the development work in 2015 will be, as stated in the report, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Finland's representative manners and models project, set by Tuomioja in October 2014. This project is important. We should give it all our support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u22	Mr President! Very interesting and good speeches have been heard here about the state of Finnish government finances and also about this security aspect. However, I would like to highlight one particular aspect of this government's annual report, which is on the tax side and which concerns tobacco tax. After all, the State received nearly EUR 790 million in tobacco taxes in 2014. However, this report draws attention to the fact that the decrease in tobacco tax revenue was due to the preparation of tobacco companies for the increase in early 2014. After all, the tobacco tax produced a little more since 2013, but in 2014 the revenue estimate had to be reduced by EUR 68 million. After all, we now have a similar situation in which the new government is raising the tobacco tax, that these companies are preparing for it in advance by buying a full supply of tobacco so that they can survive the next year or even a year and a half without this increase. Large international companies are able to avoid paying this tax in the best possible way, but what can ordinary citizens do? What's their part? If the law on taxation is amended, i.e. the tax is increased, it will come into force with the ordinary taxpayer as soon as the law enters into force. In other words, in the case of VAT, for example, the ordinary consumer has to pay it nicely, and in that sense this kind of gimmick is somewhat unequal to the ordinary taxpayer. I hope, therefore, that the future government, by means of a tax or an additional tax, will intervene in this kind of tax evasion, because this has also been the case in many EU countries in a situation where they are detecting company tax plans designed to avoid tax increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u23	Mr President! Here, the representatives of Elo and Saarakkala referred to the Greek road, and I think it is perhaps appropriate to specify what the Greek road actually means. If we look at the economic situation in Greece at the moment, it is above all because of these drastic and over-measured expenditure cuts that have been made in Greece, which led to very strong growth in public debt and unemployment. So the question that I believe we should also ask in Finland on the basis of this government's annual report is: why does debt continue and increase despite these adjustments and tax reductions? And our analysis here is that this definition of government's problem has been wrong, that is, too much emphasis has been placed on these structural problems and structural aspects of the labour market, and too little attention has been paid to the cyclical pit in which Finland is currently in, and to the cyclical problems that exist throughout Europe at the moment. Finally, when Mrs Elo said that this path could no longer be followed, obviously referring to the government's annual report: at least on the basis of the information I have received, this is the path that is being followed by this new government, that is to say, by adjustment measures and expenditure cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u24	Thank you, Mr Andersson, and next, Mr Heinonen, from Lope.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u25	Honored Speaker! Mr Kantola spoke about sanctions after my own speech. It is true that we have common sanctions, but one thing that we in the European Union have failed to do in a certain way in lobbying is that, although we have common sanctions that have been imposed against them, we do not currently, unfortunately, have a functioning system of joint liability for adverse effects. And yes, the fact is that the Finnish food producer is currently carrying too much of the impact of these sanctions, and it should be able to be evened out in the future if the situation does not become more stable and return to normal, which I had already suspected in my own speech that this would not happen. Mr President! Thanks must be given to the government and to previous governments in general for the long-term management of defence policy in Finland, for not taking part in such trends, to which Sweden, for example, took off, to transform the country's defence forces into more crisis-based forces, but we have also been prepared through a large reserve army for more traditional threats. And now these recent events have shown that this long-term path has been the right one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u26	Mr President! Mr Andersson suggested that in practice we should increase the stimulus. The only situation here is that, in practice, the powers of the last few years have revived the means of recovery, and now that this agreement on economic discipline has been concluded, even under the leadership of the Left Alliance, which, incidentally, the People's Party did not accept as the only parliamentary party in the past, so this has now been given in practice an interpretation of compliance with this agreement outside this Chamber, and so we will have to take those measures either voluntarily or under the leadership of the Commission. I personally see, however, that it is better for us here in Parliament to try to make these austerity measures on our own and not give more power here to Brussels, where the transfer of power will take place if we do not do so. Then the presentations to be followed would come from there. In that sense, the Greek road is waiting, because Greece is under the guidance of outside actors at the moment, and I certainly do not want that to happen to Finland. And as long as we do not have our own monetary policy, this is the way ahead. Then it is a different matter if we want to discuss whether we want to return the markka. But I personally see that, in a certain way, this discipline policy in this situation is, however, less bad than the fact that we are increasing solidarity in the euro area and thus increasing federal development. So, yes, we're just gonna have to take a spoon for a beautiful hand right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u27	Mr President! Representatives Elo and Saarakkala spoke about the challenge of the economic situation and called for a responsible economic policy. I would like to make this idea of so-called responsible economic policy a little more precise and a little more opponable. This is what has been said about the road to Greece, and so we know, however, that with major cuts, government debt does not necessarily decrease, and quite the opposite has been seen in southern Europe. In other words, the collapse of citizens' purchasing power will have an impact on SMEs and, in a way, on all businesses, and will slow down the functioning of the domestic market. You'd think this would be a pretty well-known thing, but unfortunately, we're not seeing it now. I find it very interesting to see that the Finnish People’s Party, which advertises itself as a small person’s party, is excited with the Coalition Party and the Centre to make major cuts that will be felt in the everyday lives of ordinary Finns, and it is interesting to see this introduction, according to Saarakkala’s EU scare. These are interesting discussions, but this reign will show who is on the side of a small person. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u28	Mr Yanar, let us not get ahead of ourselves; tomorrow we will find out what the government's policies are. Of course, I would first of all like to congratulate Mr Andersson on the end of the left-wing youth presidency. I see that, as presidents of youth organisations, we disagreed and as parliamentarians we still disagree. I do not mean that we must continue in all economic policies along the same lines as the previous government. What I mean is that we have to change the line in so far as it is not possible to take on more debt to the state at this rate. This is the untenable path I meant when I was talking about unsustainableness and that Greek road. After all, the situation in Greece is terrible in the sense that what was waiting at the end of the road was good news for Syriza’s election victory. That is not the way anyone wants to go all the way, not in Finland or elsewhere in Europe. The British line is correct. There is a need for adjustment, but there is also a need for economic growth and hence jobs. As has indeed been the case in Britain, much more jobs than in other EU countries combined over the last few years. That is what we must strive for. In that way, this future government — if and when it is composed of what I suspect — will even gain the confidence of the citizens of the second period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u29	Mr. Speaker! Discipline I'm from, by the way. — Mr Yanar considered the speech of the signatory to be interesting and also this debate to be interesting, and that is certainly interesting. But what is even more interesting is how it can be that the Parliament Party, called the Greens, first approves the EU's Economic Discipline Agreement, and when that takes a couple of years, you will have new faces here, which you completely disagree with, which your party has approved and considered to be good. In other words, there is also a responsibility in how the party can break away from its own previous positions, and I do not think that, in this situation, the Green Representative, Mr Yanar, is using this responsibility in the best possible way, because it is precisely you who must be responsible for what you have accepted here. We're cleaning up after you right now, and I'm sure we'll have all four years to clean it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u30	Thank you, Mr Vesa-Matti Saarakkala from Kurikka.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u31	Mr President! Just to be clear, I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber wants Finland to be subject to this excessive deficit procedure, and I also agree, in fact, that this agreement on economic discipline contains very important problems from the point of view of democracy. But what we should be discussing is, therefore, where the evidence of the functioning of such an adjustment policy or of the functioning of a discipline policy is from the point of view of a reduction in debt or a balance in the economy. So now we are discussing the type of measures we are taking here in Finland to stabilise the economy, and at least I personally see as a very big threat that over-measured expenditure cuts in the wrong way will increase our public debt as well as unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u32	Honorable Speaker! I have listened with interest to this debate, and I would just like to say that I believe that this economic situation in Finland should be dealt with in such a way that these cuts and adjustments should be made in the first years. After the rest of the season, we can revive and these big projects, the social welfare reform, also the municipal reform, would have to be brought to the finish line. I have noticed from these government negotiations that, fortunately, the four years of yapping and shaking that the previous government did have stopped, it is a life behind us. The future government will take the decisions that will bring this Finland uphill, and we will also revive the rest of the period so that this starting economic growth can start and continue. And now to the Left Alliance: When the left-wing union was the only party that wanted to conduct this policy of recovery in these elections, wanted to continue indebtedness in Finland, the left-wing union itself did not act as a party in accordance with these guidelines, but immediately after the elections announced that there were negotiations in the party. I do wonder about this procedure. Don't you think we should live the way we teach?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u33	Mr President! Indeed, this agreement on economic discipline made a significant transfer of competence from the Finnish Parliament to the outside of the country, and that is why I myself opposed it. I am not opposed to financial discipline, but I am opposed to the outsourcing of this issue, and then we are expected to be guided from the outside, and then action will be taken. But precisely because this is not happening now, I believe that the future government itself must now take action on its own, so that the good principles of democracy can be said to be fulfilled, not just by appealing to it and waiting for us, in a way, to go shepherding and telling us what to do and what to do. That situation must not be allowed to arise. In my opinion, the euro area is problematic at the moment and certainly in the future, and when there are countries of this type like Greece involved, such talks as those which have now been represented by the Left Alliance here, for example, are like throwing gasoline in the flames, so that you can only burn there in Greece so that you can achieve economic growth. In my opinion, it is essentially a moral hazard, and in this respect this euro area is totally unoptimal, but if it is to be, then, in a certain way, Finland must be exemplary and show that we are not at least the moral hazard that is to feed more of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u34	Your Honor! I must congratulate Ville Vähämäki on the most unintelligible argument of the day, that as you know, Ville, the party's economy is like a household, i.e. revenue must be adjusted. We cannot revive at party level, just as households cannot actually revive public finances. When party support falls, then you have to live up to it. But the state economy is not like a household. That's different. There is much more room for manoeuvre in central government finances, and the life-cycle of states is virtually endless, and a sound economic policy can be made. We do not want to be in debt as a left-wing union for its own purpose, of course, but we want work in Finland. And we need demand. Finland and Europe are living in a recession. A revitalising economic policy can create a demand that creates work and growth. And when we have work and growth, then we will also be able to pay off that debt. Unemployment is the main problem in Finland's state finances and in Finland's society. In other words, we want a sensible and employment-friendly cyclical policy, and then we will also be able to pay off those debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u35	Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen spoke well of these big differences between the party office and the state economy, and I myself would not have thought I would run into this comment in this Chamber. To Mrs Saarakkala, I would also like to say that I am still waiting for answers to the evidence that this cutting policy is working. When we talk about the euro area, it is an excellent example of how such oversized savings in public spending in the event of recession have, in particular, led to high unemployment and very weak economic growth. And this is precisely the problem that the left-wing federation, in its own economic policy line, wants to address, by increasing public investment. And if you want to talk about moral hazard in relation to the economic situation in Europe, then it is above all about the European banking sector and the fact that one important factor behind the euro crisis was the excessive level of our private debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u36	Mr President! The debate here is a good example of how the economic debate is, in a way, in children's shoes, both in the Finnish debate and here in Parliament. The economy is not a household — good comments have just come from here — and it is worth remembering that cutting the ratio of sovereign debt does not necessarily decrease. As I said earlier, these major cuts in southern Europe actually correlate with the GDP bill. They are also worth exploring. I would like our own government here in Finland to make a sensible economic policy that would make our debt ratio fall rather than rise. I am afraid that future measures, which talk about 4 plus 2 billion cuts, will damage the domestic market. I hope that will not happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u37	Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen said that the state economy and household are two different things — yes, yes, but when we talk about the state economy in the EU context, then we talk about the whole euro area, and there is a common monetary policy in the euro area, but not a common economic policy in practice, and if you want this kind of revitalising policy, which you are proposing, it will lead to an EU federation, because it will require that economic policy in practice be coordinated very strongly at the heart of the euro area. At least I cannot sign it myself, because it destroys traditional democracy and is therefore the wrong way. We have a fundamental difference of opinion here. It is certainly not particularly pleasant to cut what is ahead of us here, and it certainly does not immediately bring those results, but it is only so that this situation and this debt must now be reversed. Account must also be taken of the fact that while Finland is still in debt at low interest rates, this situation may change. And I do not think that Finland should be allowed to allow our interest rates to go to unsustainable levels. However, there is always that danger, so I think that if we go down that road, we will play rich or rough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u38	President! Yes, it is well known that central government finances must be managed in a different way than households or parties' economies. But, in fact, every year countries should be slightly more in debt, and this optimal rate of borrowing is about half of GDP growth. This actually turns this debt-GDP ratio down. In other words, if Finland gets on the path of economic growth in which GDP is going to rise, then we know its optimal rate of borrowing, too. But now the problem is that if we revive too much, as when it happened in 2008 — we revived about half too much as we really should have revived as a national economy — then we owe too much as a national economy and do not get that stimulus benefit so much to the national economy, but rather only our productive potential increases. In fact, this has been a very good debate both from the Left Alliance and elsewhere on what these major problems in the Finnish economy are. In my opinion, our main problem is that since 2008 we have had the same level of labour productivity as it grew steadily from the early 1980s to 2008. In fact, if we look at the working hours that have been done to society, they have remained quite at the same level since the early 1980s, excluding, of course, the recession of the early 1990s,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u39	Mr President! A brief comment on monetary union and the structure of monetary union. In its current form, the euro is already, in a certain sense, a federal structure. In other words, there are only two options in itself if you see problems in this current monetary union: either to reform existing structures and policies within them, or to support the dismantling of their structures and the separation from the euro, and that is not the position that the Finns of Finland have, as far as I know. The Left Alliance, on the other hand, has a position which is not related to increasing powers, i.e. strengthening federal development, but precisely to changing this economic policy line, i.e. to correct the content of this economic policy, which is linked to our vision of changing the mandate of the European Central Bank, for example, to follow up the imbalances in the trade balance of the euro countries more closely. Then, with regard to changes in labour productivity, I would just like to point out briefly that it is also a key factor in the changes that have taken place in the Finnish industrial structure also on the industrial side, where, for example, the importance of services, where labour productivity is lower than, for example, in certain other sectors of the export industry, has increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u40	Mr President! An interesting discussion has taken place in connection with the Government's annual report for the previous year. Here I would like to point out that, once again, there was a debate on the elections, that what kind of electoral programmes were there for which one party, and that the left-wing coalition wanted to improve employment by revitalising it and that it was not the right way or line for some people: Our party has seen here what the cuts have led to. Purchasing power has decreased, employment figures are terrible to read, mass unemployment is at risk. In our view, our main task is to ensure adequate basic services for all and also to ensure that there is a level of basic security. That's why these surgical lists didn't belong, quite correctly, to our election program. But instead, I would ask the representatives of the Finns, when you promised your constituents that the car tax would be abolished. Is this the case that Finland really can afford such tax relief in this economic situation? And what about the cuts in state subsidies that directly affect municipalities and local government finances? Municipalities will then have to adjust and increase their so-called municipal tax, which is an equal tax, and then cut basic services. Old-age services will probably be cut if, for example, staff measurements start to compromise. What will happen to our primary school system, the quality and content of education? These are probably the answers we will receive tomorrow, but you too had such great promises to your constituents that taxation would be reduced in this respect. In addition, this property tax: there has been a lot of talk here about such measures, that everyone is now required to be aware of this crisis and that those on low incomes are also put in a squat when the indices are frozen. But what about the high incomers? Are they coming? Is the tax on high incomes being increased, is the property tax being refunded? We'll see. The Finns of Peru have at least shouted hard in the field that
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u41	Mr President! Mrs Saarakkala said that, in a way, a stimulating economic policy can only be pursued in the context of a Union of transfers, and I would like to know where this is based. Another rather strange comment was Mr Vähämäki's comment on this optimal rate of borrowing. What is the basis of this? As an economist, it is very difficult to remember any such theory. I would say that if we are really referring to investigations, we are referring to investigations. For example, De Grauwe and Ji 2012 reviewed the cuts in southern Europe and the fall in GDP. It's worth a look. It's showing a very high correlation rate. I can send you a link if you like. Another study on resuscitation and its effectiveness was carried out in 2013 by a Russian-born American economist whose name I do not remember. Recovery is much more effective in a context of zero growth or recession. I would encourage you to look at these so that we can have a better economic debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u42	Mr President! Yes, the EU's position is the same as that which has always been that we do not support the federal route, but rather we want to deregulate in that respect. It will then, in the best case, lead to an independent monetary policy back, but policy will nevertheless be made in time, so that unfortunately compromises will always have to be made, and in this sense I cannot say that we would now, for example, be promoting Finland's withdrawal from monetary union in the government. But it is the party's aim, however, that the federal state should not be deepened. As far as the left-wing union is concerned, you are now in favour of changing the mandate of the ECB, in other words, you are in favour of such an unelected institution, the conclave, actually managing European economic policy more independently, and I think that is a very undemocratic line. As far as this recovery is concerned, however important consumer demand is, the domestic consumer demand is not what raises us out of this distress, it is the export industry and our products that we manufacture and export here in Finland. In this respect, the path of this type of resuscitation, which Mr Hänninen, for example, called for, has been completed. And as far as these possible future cuts in the central government shares of the municipalities are concerned, I do not know, it may be that the same level will be maintained as during the last parliamentary term, but the level of government in which the left-wing union and the Greens were involved was, after all, unprecedented in the cuts in the central government's shares. Cumulative cuts are top-notch, and in this respect you already bear the responsibility for the plight of many low incomes. Don't come here to tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u43	Thank you. — Our discussion circle is expanding, followed by Joona Räsänen from Lohja.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u44	Mr President! Now that we are assessing the activities of the previous governments in the form of the Annual Report 2014 and there has now been quite a lot of specific accusations from the Finns that the previous government cut too little, I would like to remind you of the discussions that were held in the building next to that other room last season. When the Finns were the opposition party, it was shouted that when too much was cut. Has that line changed now that the elections were, and the responsibility seems to be beginning to weigh, that it is now in the opinion that more should be cut? Now I would have made sure that I am in the right information, at least myself: Now that the Finns of Finland are demanding cuts, do you really continue to cut and, in particular, cut off these net contributions to our membership of the EU? As I recall, you promised to halve them here in the run-up to the election. Is this still on the Finnish operating list? That this week, when the government is appointed and the Finns of Finland are involved, will the Finns of Finland keep their promises and cut the net contributions to our membership fee by half?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u45	Representative Räsänen: I myself have once lived in Lohja — now in Espoo — so I understand your mental movements. You can still wait till tomorrow, too. Yes, all this information is on the table, and then I'm sure you'll be able to get to it and I could say that you're probably right to criticise it from your point of view. As far as Mr Hänninen's question on individual taxes is concerned, should we go down the road, I will not take a stand on individual taxes, but, of course, as a Peruvian, I believe that the overall tax rate should be reduced so that the economy can be reinstated, not only on the business side, but also on the private side. That is one of the reasons why I am not left-wing, quite clearly. As far as the criticism of the EU, which has been raised in this debate, of course, the left-wing alliance should be concerned about the development that Europe has, namely the conservative and EU-critical forces are on the rise. In Britain came an election victory, you can say landslide victory. In Poland, a new president was elected, a former MEP of the ECR Group. There will soon be parliamentary elections in Denmark, parliamentary elections in Poland. It looks very good from the point of view of what the Finns and our ECR Group represent, that is to say, they want to reform the EU and look at the cards first and then think about the fact that if it does not succeed, what will be done afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u46	Mr President! Another comment to Mrs Saarakkala is that the European Central Bank already exists and is already doing economic policy on our behalf, but with a limited mandate, which is why, for example, the recovery that the ECB is currently trying to do in the euro area is essentially a revival of the European banking sector, rather than direct lending to the Member States, which would then be able to use these public investments to boost economic growth and employment. And if this undemocraticism of the European Central Bank is of concern, I can comfort Mrs Saarakkala by the fact that, as far as I am aware, the left-wing alliance is the only party that has proposed democratising the direction of the European Central Bank and, among other things, your government partners have been very much against our request. Then perhaps to Mr Elo: although I consider it worrying in itself that the right is going to rise, perhaps this concern is even greater for the other right-wing parties — the fact that the Conservative right-wing parties will have more voters — because those votes come from their voters and not from the left-wing parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u47	Mr President! Mr Räsänen called for the line to be firm in relation to the previous parliamentary term. For Mr Räsänen's information, your party has indeed signed this agreement on economic discipline during this last parliamentary term. Now, if you have really followed the media, it has now been announced that the future Finnish government will have to clean up the mess that has been created during your party’s reign. Such a small event has now come as a result of this transfer of powers, which your party has carried out, and there will be a certain responsibility, no matter what the opinion of the last parliamentary term, to uphold the international agreements that Finland has entered into in this respect, which are absolutely essential. I am afraid that this change in the mandate of the ECB, as proposed and put forward by the Left Alliance, would be the final path of moral hazard, that it would now be like a thorn open to the countries, in such a way that they would buy their own bonds directly from there so that we could put them into circulation. I don't think it's good. That is different if you had your own independent monetary policy. That would be the democratic direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u48	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u49	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 28 May 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-26-ps-8.u50	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 28 May 2015.
