ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The debate will begin with Mr Stubb, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u2	Madam President! The fourth amending budget, and perhaps, if you will allow me, would be summed up in two sets, the first of which is the general statement on the economy, the economic situation, and the second is a slightly more detailed analysis of the draft supplementary budget. Perhaps if this general speech is summed up: I believe that Finland has a pretty strong crisis awareness of the economic situation, but we in the government have thought about it in terms of well-being Without a competitive economy, we will not be able to take the second step, namely exports and exports. Of course, companies on that side have a responsibility to provide services and goods that are sold in the world. Then we will get to the third stage, i.e. after exports, which is an increase. We see the conditions for growth at the moment: emerging economic growth in the euro area, low oil prices, the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, low interest rates, and the value of the euro, especially from an export point of view, is at a low level, perhaps in relation to the dollar. After competitiveness and exports and growth, we will reach the fourth stage, which is jobs and jobs. Here, as the House well knows, the government has taken action, not least through earnings-related unemployment security and local reconciliation and labour market reforms. After the job, we will reach the fifth stage, which is taxes and tax revenues. Of course, our objective here is, in principle, not to increase the tax rate and not to tighten the tax at all. Only then will we get to the most important, or well-being, of all. In practice, the circle of our positive economy or the circle of prosperity consists of six entities, the first being competitiveness, without which there is no export, without which there is no growth, without which there is no work, without which there is no tax revenue and without which there is no well-being. Against this background, we have also mirrored our fourth amending budget, which in its details contains the following elements: we will concentrate on covering only the necessary expenditure for the current year in this fourth draft amending budget, and the largest overall budget will of course take account of the increasing number of asylum seekers and the resulting additional expenditure. It is very important for Finland and for asylum seekers that applications can be processed effectively and that the situation remains under the control of the authorities. Against this background, the amending budget contains a total of approximately EUR 94.5 million for the management of migration, and the proposal is based on the reception of around 30000 to 40000 asylum seekers this year. This is divided into approximately 48 million for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers, around 13 million for support to reception customers, an increase of approximately EUR 150000 for the operating costs of other courts, followed by 23 million for the compensation of private legal advisers, 19.4 million for the compensation of municipalities for reception activities, and EUR 580000 for customs operating expenditure for enhanced surveillance in the Tornio area. Thanks to Minister Orpo's determined action, we have already achieved a clear decline in the number of asylum seekers arriving in Finland next year, however, it is still impossible to estimate at this stage. The Government has decided to postpone the unallocated reserve for the current year by EUR 200 million for next year, so that we will also have a buffer for the coming year. The government must also make an essential contribution to improving the asylum process and seeking common solutions to the crisis with other EU Member States. The other proposals contained in the amending budget are mainly of a technical nature. I'll go over them briefly. For example, EUR 20.5 million will be budgeted for the reform of universities of applied sciences — this increase to compensate for the changes in the VAT Act. EUR 44 million will then be budgeted for the refinancing operations of Suomen Exportcredit Ltd. The increase is due to revised calculations of interest rate and exchange rate changes. An increase of EUR 15 million is proposed for basic daily allowance expenditure and an increase of EUR 80 million for housing allowance, which is also a worrying signal of the increase in long-term unemployment. This trend must be changed by encouraging companies to employ and encouraging Finns to take up work. At the beginning of the coming year, the taxation of low- and middle-income employees will be reduced by EUR 450 million by a reduction in earnings, which will then help to encourage the receipt of low-paid work as well, when more is paid. The amending budget also contains expenditure-reducing elements. Among other things, the EU contribution estimate will be reduced by EUR 150 million, which is due to the impact of the additional EU budget, the increase in miscellaneous EU revenues and the audit of national accounts. Structural Fund expenditure will also be reduced by EUR 60 million, energy and investment aid by nearly EUR 30 million — that is to say, because of delays in projects — and renewable energy production aid by EUR 36 million, as a result of the audit of forest chips electricity production. The amount earmarked for the training allowance to be paid to the Unemployment Insurance Fund will be reduced by EUR 17 million due to less than anticipated applications for training allowances and the central government contribution to labour market support expenditure will be reduced by EUR 45 million due to a reduction in the number of labour market support recipients compared to previous estimates. Mr President, ärade talman! Till slut, finally: Overall, the fourth draft amending budget for 2015 will reduce the need for net government borrowing by around EUR 26 million. Nevertheless, we are still in debt, and it is forecast that this year we will increase our debt by EUR 5.2 billion and next year we will increase the debt burden by another EUR 5 billion. However, I am able to be optimistic about the future. A better tomorrow will require the ability to renew and the courage to change Finland, and that is hopefully what we all have in this Chamber. Hopefully, the economic policy line of this government will also create faith in the future. Rather than drifting or treating the cause of the disease, we are taking steps to improve our situation. And now that we are making the necessary major reforms, we will get out of the constant spiral of savings and misery, and at the same time we will also enable a welfare society for future generations, in the order I mentioned at the outset: first competitiveness, then exports, then growth, then jobs, then tax revenue and then prosperity. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u3	Now it's possible to have a debut. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u4	Mr President! Now, Minister, I would like to ask that, when we put a lot more money into this immigration so that we can deal with this crisis — and this must be the case, of course — when, according to today's information, Supo tells us that those who are seeking to enter the country include Isis fighters and Isis fighters and extremist Islamists, what are the measures that the government can use to eliminate asylum seekers who are obviously not asylum seekers? What are the ways in which this money, which is now going to be transferred to this activity in this budget, will be directed at those who need it: mothers, children and those who are in real need of life? How are you going to figure this out? How do you tell the Finns that the money goes to the right destination and not to Isis fighters or Islam distributors?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u5	Madam President! I agree with that Minister Stubb's initiative to ensure well-being in Finland. There is now much debate in Finland that Finland can only rise by increasing and revitalising its debt. I think this is definitely the wrong message. We need to make Finnish work and production competitive both in Finland and abroad, and in this respect the government's line is the right one. It is now simply a matter of patience to make these structural reforms that are ahead of us. The opposition seems to have no concept for this economic situation. Or would we hear something constructive today, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u6	Mr President! In fact, action on employment and competitiveness must be taken here and now. And that is why I am surprised that there is a third amending budget going on and that there is still not the first direct action by the government in the area of employment management, not even the first. The second miracle concerns the issue of competitiveness. The Government says that measures should be taken to improve competitiveness. We'll share it completely. Why don't they make them here and now? This Government Force Act package is aimed at 2017, a year and a half is being and wondering. It would be possible to act immediately on the side of indirect labour costs by reducing them, which is why there are good proposals from the social partners, such as unemployment insurance contributions and pension contributions. Why don't you grab this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u7	Mr President! I welcome the fact that decisions are taken in time, as the Minister for Finance said, but only the money that is now available, i.e. the necessary, is under this direction. The number of asylum seekers has increased significantly. I would also like to thank the Defence Forces, the Air Force, for being given more money. We have a significant increase in the use of Hornets on identity flights, and it is also important to ensure that our integrity is safeguarded in all situations. But, yes, I agree that we also need bold measures to improve competitiveness, and I have listened positively to the fact that we also need a representative. Heinäluoma supports measures to improve competitiveness and would even have expected these measures more quickly. Let us hope that the government will make decisive progress in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u8	Madam President! As we just heard, the government's forced law package is aimed at 2017. It is certainly not an employment measure here and now. I was looking, Mr Stubb, at this general argument of yours, and there is serious concern that our unemployment situation is getting worse and worse. This is the third amending budget of this government. It is technical for employment measures. We cannot afford it; we need employment measures here and now. Where are your employment activities here and now, Minister Stubb? You will cut the employment budget by 150 million next year, the Youth Guarantee will be pulled down, there will be no concrete measures to increase jobs. The package, which is a coercive package, which in itself is bad, aims at 2017. This is not how the equation works, Minister of Finance. Where are your employment measures here and now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u9	Madam President! The opposition has already twice in this Chamber proposed additional appropriations for the management of employment in the second amending budget and in the third amending budget. Now it is no longer a technical amending budget, it is a government policy: it is paid for people not to be employed when they have to pay for people to be employed. For example, my own province, Central Finland, is currently number one in unemployment statistics and no money was left behind in the third amending budget. At what point does the government really want to put this positive economic development forward, because this tightening fiscal policy combined with the failure to invest in employment leads to a vicious circle in the economy? Will the government change its attitude towards the employment budget at the end of the year if and when unemployment increases day by day?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u10	Mr President! The SDP could do this by using all the channels of influence to achieve the social pact that you have. It is a real shame that in the background you are combing this social agreement, which would be the most important thing for Finland's competitiveness. It would have worked, now and now, to gain confidence in the market, too, that Finland will manage this debt development and improve competitiveness in order to create new jobs, export income, tax revenue. That is why it is a real shame that you have not left this government, you can say, in a fair offer to build an overall package that would enable Finnish companies to survive, to employ, to generate growth and thus tax revenue and to secure the foundations of this welfare society. Accept this challenge and do statesmen's deeds, Mr Rinne and Mr Heinäluoma in the lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u11	Mr President! What Mrs Rantakangas has said here is not true. What Rantakangas has just said is not true. He claims that the SDP would not have supported the efforts of the cooperation agreement, but he knows very well, as the ministers present do: we have offered our own model, whether we have even offered our own man, Mrs Lauri Ihalainen, who is a man of thousands of contracts and who would certainly have achieved the cooperation agreement. And as far as this fair offer is concerned, Mrs Rantakangas calls it fair, but the government's own Minister of Labour said last summer that this is not in balance with what the government is looking for, and the business sector must also meet. But the concern that the government is wasting all the time is justifiable. So you have already lost this year, the employment money has been cut. There is a risk that you will lose next year: not a single measure, and only in 2017 will these mandatory laws that you are planning come into force. Don't you think we should do this right now? And there's been some presentations from the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u12	Mr President! This SAK package is a step in the right direction but insufficient. Unfortunately, a package that improves competitiveness by around 2% is not enough, and since STTK and Akava have accepted this overall board of government, which should be achieved in terms of measures to improve competitiveness, it would also be fair for SAK to accept it. That's what you have the power and power of the SDP when you use it. I have every confidence in Minister Ihalainen — that is to say, Minister Ihalainen — and the government has confidence, but it is unfair to act in such a way that you do not put yourself in the game here. You could continue to raise your party's support when you go to save the country,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u13	Mr Rantakangas has focused on these imaginative speeches when we have argued that we should act here and now. We would now be taking the decisions that affect its famous competitiveness, and not, as your model is, that we are planning a package of coercive laws in 2017, which is likely to be unconstitutional and will be overturned. Then you will sit in the midst of this great structure that has collapsed and wonder how this has happened. A year and a half will now have to wait for citizens and businesses when your first steps are to 17. I can't believe it. And at the same time, the Prime Minister is taking the floor that we are in a hurry and now we have to stop shaking. If we were to go through the indirect labour costs, we could act here and now, and when the organisations from the employee's side have presented this, I wonder that, as you know, you have good relations with the employer, both in the centre and in the assembly, and there is a former CEO of the Family Federation, who is now asking for the floor, can you not use these contacts that you have to find a solution right away?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u14	Mr President! This is comforting to hear that the opposition has now also woken up. It is now necessary to act here and now. But how has the government acted? After all, the government has acted many months ago, and all those measures would have been achieved if a social agreement had been reached, but it has not been achieved. That is why the government has to take the measures that are in the hands of the government, that is, structural measures. I am not talking about a coercive package, because that is quite the wrong term, because it is a competition promotion package. And then on these employment funds: there must be enough. But on the management of employment in general: employment in this country as a whole will not be managed by any employment budget, but we must take measures to create competitiveness for businesses and to create sustainable, sustainable jobs. With the employment budget, we will.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u15	Mr President! This circular conclusion of the Minister of Finance on six points contains some false assumptions. Competitiveness: You are seeking competitiveness at the wage level,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u18	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma's idea sounds very attractive: to leave unemployment and insurance contributions unpaid, and the same applies to social security contributions. Did he also mean that the services previously financed by these payments would not be carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u19	Mr President! I refer to this well-known proposal from the employees, in which they have gone very far to understand this competitiveness challenge. They are beginning to be ready to increase the employee's contribution burden in the unemployment insurance contribution and to make it easier for the employer. After all, it's quite a welcome we haven't seen in normal years. There is also the willingness to temporarily calculate pension contributions, which would also make it easier for the employer to pay, and they would come into force immediately and not by sitting for a year and a half, twisting thumbs, planning and building something that is not there. I think it would be much more honest for you to stop talking about a social contract — that is not what you are doing. To discuss a labour market solution with both sides at the table. We don't even know if the employer is willing to negotiate it. After all, they have still not said whether they are ready for a wage agreement, so now this look must be directed towards making the government and whether the employer is prepared to make a long-term income decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u20	Mr President! The opposition is well aware of the reason why progress through the legislation produces its result. In 17 C.E., they come into force. But it is important for businesses to know in advance that they will come. It has its own positive meaning.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u23	Mr President! The Government's approach is refreshingly a new way of dealing with unemployment. Finland has been neglected in its past I would also like to stress to many of those who have spoken here about the opposition that, when the conditions for employment are permanently improved, when there is a credible expectation among entrepreneurs that this will be the case, then, of course, it will affect the behaviour of entrepreneurs and investors already here and now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u24	Mr President! In addition to the ideological division, there is a clear question for Mr Stubb, for Mr Lindström, for the Minister of Labour, and why not also for Mr Vartiainen: the Minister of Finance referred in that speech to future changes in unemployment security and to their encouragement to accept work. You obviously meant reducing the duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit and the ultimate aim is to reduce unemployment in that way. However, when young people have already been in use, for some time now, the reduced duration of unemployment security and youth unemployment have only been getting worse and worse in a very radical way, what is the study by which you justify this change, that it will create new jobs, will reduce unemployment when the practice of young people has shown that we are going in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u25	Madam President! The most worrying figures in this additional budget are these, where basic daily allowance expenditure is increasing and housing aid expenditure is also increasing, because it indicates that long-term unemployment in our country is increasing, and that is why the opposition's wish that these employment budgets should actually be increased is extremely legitimate. The Christian Democrats have suggested about a week and a half ago that, for the last 100 days of the earnings-related allowance period, it would be possible to use this earnings-related allowance for employment, i.e. the unemployed person could use it as a pay subsidy when he goes to the company or as a start-up allowance if he wants to start a business. The government has so far suggested that earnings-related daily allowance should only be cut clearly. However, there are areas in Finland where it is extremely difficult to find employment, but if it were possible to use this earnings-related employment, it would at the moment help us not to have enough pay subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u26	Mr President! The government's line is very clear. From the beginning of next year, the government's spending adjustment, i.e. indebtedness, will be curbed by real decisions, painful decisions. From the beginning of 2017, labour market reforms will be carried out if the contracting parties do not now do so voluntarily. However, at the moment we have the full freedom to settle all these matters, and I hope that will happen. The third step is then 2018–2019, when there comes a lot of social work, a reduction in municipal tasks, a pharmaceutical reform and a few other major reforms. This package, which is a package in accordance with the Government Programme, will bring about the change that is needed in this country. It's urgent. But the previous government, whose budget, the last budget, we are still living in, did not take these measures. We have to do it now. They are painful, we admit it, but only by doing so will change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u27	Mr President! It is now quite necessary to ask, after this speech, who believes in this government's economic policy line at all, when the first employment measures come either in 2017 or, as we have just heard, in 2019. This is now, please, Mr Kankaanniemi, Minister Stubb, emergency. This is an emergency for the unemployed; more and more young people are coming; action is needed now. I, the President-in-Office, would not have thought I would see such a parliamentary debate, that here the representative of the Finns of Peru is actually excited that the government wants to cut wages by 5% or cut social security. The Finns themselves put forward a lot more employment appropriations, and it is now stated that they do not really matter when they have to be cut. Have you listened to the recent debate on economic policy, as more economists question such a strangling line not only as humanly wrong but also as unsustainable in economic policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u28	Representative Terho, and then Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u29	Mr President! We really do not want to cut anything with the people, but only under the extreme imperative that we have inherited from the previous governments. Mr Stubb rightly set out to explain this broader idea and larger plan of the government programme through the six steps in which we first have competitiveness as a starting point, and to that end we have this competitiveness package, which we are constantly promoting. We have exports, we have growth jobs, we have tax revenues — all this is the right way to arrive at the reasonable conclusion that only through competitiveness will permanent, healthy jobs be created that really increase our well-being. In this respect, the government has made the right decision in principle. The opposition, in keeping with its job description, has constantly voiced opposition to every aspect of the plan, but it is now finally being said that at least the social partners have presented the options that would work here and now. Well, Minister, can you comment on the government's attitude to these? I don't think we have categorically rejected these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u30	Next, Mr Stubb, three minutes, and Minister Lindström will complete, and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u31	Madam President! Perhaps the first thing to say is that this part-session has clearly done a good job, because this debate is very lively, of high quality and interesting. Perhaps as a first comment on this timetable, in the spirit of representatives Lindtman, Heinäluoma and Viitanen: did I understand you correctly that you want us to impose mandatory laws on a faster schedule? If that is not the case, I am happy to accept the corrections. And in this respect, of course, there are three answers, the first of which relates to the measures that are being taken at the moment. I think that Mr Heinäluoma drew attention to the very right thing, to two entities: competitiveness and employment. This is where we look in the longer term, because competitiveness or the employment situation cannot be improved by tapping or patching up, for example, through employment appropriations — which we added EUR 21 million in the previous amending budget because of the Microsoft situation — but, indeed, through these three 5% leaps, the first to which Mr Terho referred, also relates to the discussions that are currently taking place with the social partners: how can we catch up with cost-competitiveness? And in that, of course, we are prepared to listen and listen to the social partners and have asked them to find a solution that will remain within this 5% framework. All good proposals will be received. The second, of course, relates to the level of pay: Mr Uotila spoke of a zero-wage solution. That is not an objective; the aim is, of course, that we will find a moderate wage settlement that will enable us to close the 5% gap in our basic career in the VM. This is by no means an easy task, and of course it depends on whether it is related to the wage level in Germany, to the wage level in Sweden or to the wage level in Denmark. And the third 5% will then be linked to labour market reforms, and one of these is local agreement, which will be discussed and proposed by the government, and then earnings-related unemployment security. These are its 5+5+5, i.e. competitiveness and work. As a final observation, perhaps a representative of Aalto's negative vicious circle: That, of course, is the danger. So at the moment we have a tightening fiscal policy, we cannot get over it or around it, and we are well aware that it will also shrink growth in the short term. But the basic problem with us in this negative vicious circle is that if we first leave the sixth, which is the most important of all: prosperity, and we think about what is the size of the welfare society, and then we start thinking about the next fifth, how to tax it so that it can be managed, and only after taxation will we start thinking about employment, and only after employment will we think about growth, and only after growth, about exports and after exports, about competitiveness, then unfortunately we will end up in that negative vicious circle. We try to look at it from the other side, with 110,000 new jobs and 72 employment rates in Finland in 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u32	Then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u33	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma was quite right that these investments in the management of employment at the moment — although these employment appropriations have been increased, as the Minister for Finance said, the EUR 21 million in the last supplementary budget — must of course be acknowledged, of course, that is not enough, and I have said it out loud before. If we had money endlessly, we should've put 90 million in it last time. It would have filled this problem, but we are not trying to solve the problem that is now just here and now, but this structural problem. That is what we are solving here, and that is why these means which the government is using are quite limited and take up its own time and must be used through the triangular majority of these laws. It'll take some time. This concern about these employment funds is shared, and I too am very concerned, and I would certainly like more money endlessly to be able to deal with this issue, but when it has to be acknowledged that there is a limited number of it and every single minister has to compromise, the Minister for Labour will also have to do so. And in this respect, of course, it does not help to complain, but to use the money to act on what is available. Here came a good idea, Mr Essayah hit the heart of the matter: the government has not in any way pointed out that earnings-related daily allowance could be used for employment, start-up money. This is precisely the direction we want to develop this, to get it into action that activates the employment budget and not the passive one. It is the ultimate plot of this whole exercise, and I understand that the SDP is also in favour of taking this side in the active direction, so that those people will then be able to get away with living again. We are looking for lasting effects, and when we have talked about local agreement and this study by Harri Hietala came into it, it is only the report that has been handed over to the government — the government has not yet said anything — with the atmosphere and attitude of entrepreneurs — I have talked to a large number of entrepreneurs — that if this goes in any direction as it seems, they are prepared to employ people, and that is of course...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u34	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u35	Mr President! Indeed, it was Mr Rinne who, for the first time, suggested that employment appropriations should be used more actively, and this is very welcome, and I hope that the government will bring its own proposals here. But that does not eliminate the fact that it is hypocritical to say that the first thing to do is to remove employment appropriations, start-up money, the opportunity to employ, and increase long-term unemployment, thereby also increasing state spending, because the less people have purchasing power in this situation, when exports do not pull, the more new unemployed will come to us. We must ensure that long-term unemployment does not increase and that youth unemployment does not increase, and for that we need more employment money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u36	Madam President! Long-term unemployment and youth unemployment are increasing at an alarming rate. I am concerned that the government disregards the employment budget and did not increase it now, even though you yourself acknowledged that the deficit was already 70 million at the beginning of autumn. Already in the summer, we ran out of employment appropriations, start-up money. I had to tell the starters there's nothing to give. In view of the fact that the increase in the level of employment has just improved the sustainability gap and improved the state of the national economy as well as preventing the population from falling into long-term unemployment, this should be at stake. Now that all groups are almost in favour of using earnings-related as start-up money, we, the Greens, are also warmly in favour of the government making such a proposal as soon as possible. I would also like to ask the ministers present how progress is being made in combining work and social security, such as the basic income test.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u37	Madam President! In fact, I am pleased that there seems to be a broad consensus in the Chamber on the need to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work properly. This package also involves making local agreements more accessible, as local agreements are also a means of increasing productivity. The government must prepare its own solutions to improve this cost competitiveness because, ultimately, only the government and Parliament are responsible for what is happening in this country and for finding solutions in this country that promote employment and our economy. But of course the negotiations between the social partners have a key role to play, and I appeal to them to make their own decisions and, if necessary, I also call on Mr Heinäluoto to support this decision by the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u38	Mr President! I, too, appeal to the social partners and am prepared to say that I take their proposals very seriously. After all, the strange situation has been heard today from the Minister of Finance that he will no longer accept a motion for a zero treaty. When the SAK offered a zero contract for wages, the Minister of Finance said that zero now would be far too much to demand that this is not what the government is trying to achieve. It turns out to be quite strange that, on the side of the social partners, exceptionally far-reaching proposals have been made, particularly on the part of employees. They are prepared to take more unemployment insurance contributions on their own tabs in order to help the employer. Then they are prepared to temporarily reduce occupational pension contributions, which would also have an impact here and now, right away. The government wants to sit on this theoretical structure for a year and a half, which the Prime Minister said is mandatory legislation, which became a compulsory law, the whole thing you do, without giving the entrepreneur anything but a warm hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u39	Time! Secretary Stubb will respond in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u40	Madam President! Minister Stubb will respond in less time. In order to avoid any misinterpretation, I did not take a stand on the offer that the social partners have just made. On the other hand, I would hear the views of Minister Heinäluoma
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u41	Mr President! There's a surprising answer that I'm not in favour of coercive laws. I venture to suspect that they will never come through this Parliament, because in my opinion they are unconstitutional. Parliament cannot take action to prevent contract operations. I find it rather strange that instead of focusing on what is ours, in terms of legislation and related matters, such as, for example, indirect labour costs, unemployment insurance or occupational pensions, we should start to regulate working conditions here: what the employer must pay at most to the workers. It's not like that in the West, Mr. Stubb. It's freedom of contract. When I know that you are a liberal from your point of view, I wonder how a liberal person like you can support compulsory legislation and not give the parties the right to agree. Is that your ideology, either, if you're being honest with me, Mr. Stubb?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u42	Madam President! Indeed, the government respects freedom of contract and, on the contrary, it is actually expanding it. If the freedom of association is addressed in the short term, then it, as well as the local agreement that is being promoted in this context, will explicitly increase the freedom of contract where it is most needed at the moment, namely at company level and at the individual level of the agreement, because it is the only way we can achieve sustainable jobs in this country and bring about the dismantling of this structural unemployment. If you look at the economic survey carried out in Finland over the past few years in relation to various forms of employment aid such as employment appropriations, they have not been found to have an employment-enhancing effect. In the short term, they may have raised the wage level, which has had negative effects on other employment, market-based employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u43	Madam President! I would like to make one more point from Mr Lepomäki and certainly from the ministers: since we are talking about the freedom of the Treaty and we want more contract law and the possibility of agreement, why are we at the same time making mandatory legislation so that agreement cannot be reached? I have an inconceivable contradiction between the various messages that are coming from within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u44	Madam President! No company has ever been mistreated in this country because of it or the entrepreneur has not been held liable if he has paid more compensation to the employee than he has been required by the contract. And this is behind this philosophy. In the short term, there will be a commitment to the freedom of contract of organisations in respect of all general binding agreements, but it is clear that at company level and at individual level there can be a derogation from this, especially upwards, and that is what we are concerned about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u45	Mr President! I had been thinking of talking about the employment budget, but I would really like Mr Lepomäki to clarify this position of the government parties. After all, a local agreement is possible in the Finnish system. It is now a matter of the government proposing legislation which will limit the possibility for the contracting parties to agree at local level on better working conditions than the level of collective bargaining. So it is a question of maintaining a system in which we also have minimum playing rules in the labour market which safeguard workers' rights and the freedom of contract between the social partners to agree on the conditions on top of it as we see fit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u46	Madam President! I am with you a strong advocate of freedom of contract. I am prepared to go so far as to allow a local agreement without the involvement of the gentlemen of Helsinki and the central organisations in the negotiation of the agreement. In this debate, it is easy to focus on this government action programme, which is trying to achieve a 5% competitiveness leap. We can argue here about these means, otherwise this debate will be easily colored by ideology. But the fact is that more jobs will only be created in Finland when companies become more competitive, and products will then be sold, order stocks will increase and employment will continue to improve. The question is whether we will then have a common vision of how much we should improve the competitiveness of Finnish companies. The government is talking about this 5% competitiveness leap, but some statistics have compared:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u47	Madam President! In fact, these compensatory measures are only part of the triangle. In addition, a moderate wage settlement and local agreement would each increase the gap by 5%. That is why it is important that we move forward with these measures to improve competitiveness, move forward with structural measures and make the difficult savings. These are all important for Finland’s future. I would hope that even the opposition here will see the light and the spark of hope, which is what, for example, in Central Finland, Mrs Aalto, is. There 14 per cent of companies, according to the latest survey, intend to take more workers the following year because of these measures, what we have done. Let us not paint negative threats, but believe in what entrepreneurs say and give them the opportunity to employ, remove obstacles.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u48	Madam President! In this autumn, for example, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, has agreed with the opposition on two points: the first is that it is both a structural crisis and a cyclical crisis — a great thing for us to move forward — and you have also just admitted that this tightening fiscal policy will lead to this vicious circle. And the third thing that would be a good thing to move on from: Do you know, Minister, what is the private sector loan situation at the moment? What is, among other things, the level of indebtedness in households, which is the level of investment in enterprises? If you are aware of this — and you are aware of it — you will understand that this sector is not carrying it. You also know that the foreign sector is not carrying it at the moment. Whenever the economy consists of three sectors, this time the domestic public sector is the only sector able to fill this demand gap. And if severe cuts are made, which creates the flow of money to the private sector so that people can afford to transfer their money to companies so that businesses can:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u49	Madam President! Of course, it is a good starting point that we are at least in agreement on one point: growth, competitiveness and employment are needed. But it seems at the moment that other things are quite far away. We visited Germany with the Committee on Economic Affairs — in fact, Mr Ihalainen brought the report by Secretary of State Martti Hetemäe on the German reforms, which would probably be good for all of us to read. It was just 15 years ago that there was a situation just like that in Finland now, and Germany made a change so that it was better suited locally, there was flexibility, there was no separation. When things got better, wages went up, there was no such open unemployment. According to estimates, 250,000 new jobs are being created in Germany this year. During that time there was a huge scream and noise, a general threat of strike and the like. They made those reforms. At the moment, the trade union movement is not complaining about it at all. That would be the international comparison that should be made. A long-term policy should be put in place to ensure that companies and entrepreneurs too have the courage to employ.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u50	Mr President! This debate shows that the Social Democrats have a responsible line: we want decisions here and now, for example, by reducing the indirect costs of the labour force. This is how we directly affect companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u53	Madam President! It is clear that individual employment measures have an impact on individuals and can be very positive, for example through education. But, as I understand from these speeches, we share a common view that the employment situation in Finland is currently so serious that it is structural rather than cyclical. It is absolutely vital here to intervene in the structures of the labour market, and that is why the focus of the government is there. Far too many years, even a decade, have been spent on trying to fill the momentary unemployment growth with these employment appropriations or other wage support measures. As I said earlier, it was not a matter of opinion, but I called for an economic study which has been carried out in Finland and also internationally, and it unfortunately shows that, at national level, wage support measures, employment support measures have failed to show employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u54	Mr President! When I visit Tammelantori or the store, the thing people talk about most is that you do, Jukka, now more work for youth unemployment. We had and still have a youth guarantee. Now the government is changing it somehow in a more communal direction — let's see what happens. During the previous period, young unemployed people were given a so-called "Sanssi card", which allowed nearly 20,000 young people to work in real jobs, that is a fact. I follow scientific research and I understand that they don't all stay at the workplace, but it's better than lying on the couch. Is this laying on the couch for the collection line?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u55	Madam President! I, for one, am following the unemployment statistics. They speak harshly of the fact that youth unemployment increased last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u58	Mr President! It is clear that various studies can be used to show how employment appropriations in general have been allocated and how they have helped. It can be estimated that half of the people who received the aid would otherwise have been employed during the upturn in 2006. But right now, we are not in a booming situation, we are in need of those measures, right now we need the support so that companies can better employ and workers and the unemployed have access to employment. We have to see the time, and precisely, as the government ministers repeat, we have to take decisions in time. Unfortunately, Mr Jaskari just left — now it would be a good time for the government to read the German model of local agreement. They have been large entities, not local reconciliation of one small job, but sectoral, regional, large solutions in which workers have much better co-determination rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u59	Mr President! When dealing with these budgets, it is always worth noting that this country is only developing through the full potential of the country, and in the direction of the ministers, the question is that, when regionally, of course, we need growth, competitiveness and employment, what does it look like now to stay in the country as a whole with the measures that the government is now planning to take over the next few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u60	Mr President! There has been an important debate here both on local agreement and on the current situation. Well, it's obvious that we're going to need a local arrangement. The world will be in Finland, for it will be small businesses that employ people. They are not within this present corporatism, in that respect we need a completely new system with which we create attractiveness. I will take one dire figure here, why this is a very important subject. We have had four years of private investment falling. This means that you do not feel that you should invest in Finland or try in Finland. The promise that we will have a competitive wage, but equally competitive, attractive, knowledgeable factor — I believe that this combination will also succeed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u61	Madam President! I have to say to Mr Lauslahti that there was a little seed in it, but it must be remembered that creating market failures by us in the SME sector is an objectionable idea even from an employee's point of view. Is it right that a small subcontractor undertaking which is unproductive, unprofitable, as part of local agreement, can compensate for this investment by reducing the wages of its employees in order to be competitive for the company that has provided for its productivity? It is inconceivable to think that we create this kind of market disturbance so that companies unhealthyly can compete with the fact that by calculating wages the company will manage the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u62	Mr President! Maybe I was misunderstood. This means that there are always two parties to a local agreement: the author and the company. They will work together to agree on the terms and conditions to be followed. It also means that we must have new mechanisms for what factors are involved in decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u63	Mr President! What Mrs Myllykoski has just said is absolutely true. If this is done, it is really outrageous. This cannot be done. It cannot be taken from the backs of the workers to make a success of the company. You can't split your wages. That is perfectly clear. In my opinion, now that we are talking about local agreement, it would be nice if the opposition, too, went on the road to see what this local agreement means. What does this local arrangement mean? What does it mean that there is also a back wall of the collective agreement? What does the working time bank mean? Is it possible to reach the point of not having to outsource people and not having to lay people off, but can move things, can be postponed from one time to another?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u64	Madam President! In this regard, the opposition has been alarmed that measures to replace the social pact should be brought into force faster than 2017. For example, they want them to come into force in 2016. I would like to ask the opposition: do you also want the local agreement to enter into force very quickly when you have called for these measures quickly? I would like to give an example of Central Finland from Metso, or the current Valmet. It was possible to make local agreements, which is not always possible, because if one of the employees does not want local agreements, it cannot be done in that company. In this company the workers joined because the whole operation was at risk of ending and it was possible to make a 12 % profitability leap, even though working conditions were weakened and there were working time banks and so on. At present, everyone is satisfied, even with the head of confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u66	Mr President! Do you know what is particularly worrying about this debate? The fact that it has become clear here that the government's view is that the only job-creating measure can be that in a few years' time, the workers and women will be cut by 5% of their salary. On the basis of this debate, it can be concluded that the government parties believe that the only measure that can be employed is the wage bill at the people's expense. You refer to it all the time. We can say for the tenth time that what we want, Mr Stubb — here is your proposal for an amending budget — is that there are measures here and in this yellow book that create jobs here and now. We want employment funds. We don't want you to pull the Youth Guarantee down. We want investment in employment and we want concrete measures, for example, to promote exports. I've studied this book quite carefully, and I'm afraid I can't find them here. I can find training cuts here, where all economists have said that under no circumstances in this cyclical situation nor in any other way should there be a cut in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u67	There are still five requests for the floor, followed by Mr Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u68	Madam President! Representative Viitanen, you should continue to read that book. There'll be plenty of them. However, those ideas are not circular conclusions, as Mr Uotila said earlier there. The main theme here has been employment, employment management, job creation. I am now approaching this from a slightly different perspective. Mr Stubb presented this very well and said that some 94 million are now going to the costs of asylum seekers in this amending budget. For its part, the Government Programme says that an independent study will be carried out on the costs and impact of immigration on our society. Do the ministers have any idea who will draw up this independent study and what timetable it will be, because there are significant opportunities for this immigration, but also significant risks, for example in terms of employment and the development of the labour market, that there will be no two different labour markets, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u69	Madam President! There has been a necessary debate in this Chamber about what is missing from this rather technical amending budget, but the most significant figures in this proposal, which amount to almost EUR 100 million, are indeed the result of the dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers referred to in the previous speech, and this money is divided into reception and then mainly in legal aid matters. However, we know that the main costs of the avalanche of arrivals are, however, only coming at the time when those who have received a positive decision are to be integrated and those who have received a negative decision are to be reinstated. I would like to ask you, Mr Stubb, how much spending increases beyond the spending limits are to be expected in the near future, precisely in relation to these integration expenditures. Then you said that, thanks to Mr Orpo's commendable efforts, the flow of arrivals has been reduced, and I would ask you to be more specific.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u70	Madam President! Many experts have found that managed immigration and successful integration cost more now but poorly implemented and resourced integration costs even more in the future. Successful integration is a matter of fate for us. The system should therefore be reformed in such a way as to better support the transition of refugees to work. This is also the wish of asylum seekers. Most of them would be ready to take up the job as if they were right after they came into the country. Other integration measures must also be started as soon as possible in reception centres. Language teaching should be relevant for employment. Teaching could be carried out, for example, in the context of traineeships and apprenticeships. I am sure we all agree that even a large amount of money does not in itself integrate anyone, but it matters what money does. So I ask the worthy ministers: how does the government intend to reform the integration system and take the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u71	Madam President! There has been a debate here about whether a proposal has come too early or too late. Prime Minister Three times after the elections, Sipilä tried to reach a social agreement with the social partners with tenacity and vigour. Unfortunately, the result was not achieved. But the cold truth is that when you look at today's export statistics, how Finnish industry exports goods abroad, where Finland lives, this statistics inevitably tell us that we are going down a clear downward trend, we are losing on the market all the time. This is a message that should be taken seriously. Prime Minister Sipilä has taken this message seriously, as the whole government has done, but I cannot understand the constant complaining and the fact that we are running out of time waiting for a date. Attempts have been made, but please join us, Mr opposition, to make this Finland... It's pretty much up to us what's going on in this country. If we just accuse each other or show that the motion is wrong or that it is even more wrong, it will not work. This is the time for action, not for this unnecessary division, so that who came first or who comes last.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u72	Mr President! As far as local agreements are concerned, the business associations that have spoken in favour of them have been saying all along that collective bargaining pay would be the backseat. It must be easy to agree with that here too in the opposition. But the question is: when there are a lot of wild companies in Finland that are not covered by collective agreements, what is that assortment for these companies? The second question concerns the expenditure of municipalities. In its own programme, the Government has promised that municipal expenditure will not be increased. Now that employment appropriations are being cut all the time, for example when the Youth Guarantee is being cut, young people looking for work will be cut by 40% next year, and so on, it is clear that the number of unemployed will increase. For the long-term unemployed, the municipality is the one who bears the big responsibility. How do you make sure that the costs of municipalities do not increase in the care of the long-term unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u73	Let us move on to the ministers' speeches, first Minister Lindström, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u74	Mr President! Firstly, a few words on these employment appropriations. Their inadequacy has been very much on the agenda here, but on the one hand we are putting more than EUR 5 billion in unemployment treatment on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u80	Secretary Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u81	Madam President! Actually, two entities. The first relates to the fundamental philosophy of economic policy, growth and employment, and then the second relates to this issue of immigration, which is actually the most important issue of this amending budget and will probably also be the most important issue of amending budgets in 2016, potentially 2017. Perhaps in basic philosophy this was best summed up by Mr Viitanen, who taped into the yellow book: what are the measures that will increase jobs through this book? Our answer, perhaps a little more unambiguous, is that there are actually no such answers. Budgetary measures, as the two former finance ministers in this Chamber are well aware, have a rather limited impact on the export industry, for example. What we can do, of course, and what is also in the budget book, is tax measures. What we can do is legislation in one way or another. But they are not all there, but the whole must be looked at considerably from the outside of this budget book, as it were, and seen through the measures we are currently seeking to replace the social pacts. So we largely assume that we will be able, through fiscal policy measures, to help with employment and growth, perhaps through legislation, but at the end of the game it will be the private sector that will do it. If we have a private sector that is not competitive, then we have no exports. If there is no export, there is no growth, and if there is no growth, there are no jobs. Mr Viitanen, if there are no jobs, there is no tax revenue, and if there is no tax revenue, there is no well-being that we are all very much calling for. So the objective is quite similar, but I believe that the means that this government uses are somewhat different. Then, in my opinion, we come to one of the most important issues of this nation over the next few years: asylum seekers and immigration. Of course, we can look at it through the budget and through the measures, of which these are our actions: we try to 1) deal with it as quickly as possible, 2) integrate as quickly as possible, and 3) get people to work as quickly as possible. This is the positive aspect — the representative. Mr Kiuru may have pointed out that our demographic structure with these asylum seekers will change, which also means that we should take advantage of the fact that there will be more working hands in the country. If I said that this would not bring challenges, then I would not be telling the truth. So it is clear that we are also trying to do this. Directly in money when this is measured and as Minister of Finance I answer questions here, we have scheduled the number of arrivals for next year at about 15,000. If and very likely when it goes beyond 15,000, that means that we will have to deal with it in amending budgets. At this point, however, we are unable to give the total because I do not know what the final amount is. My final point is this: we have provided an additional EUR 150 million for the 2017 and 2018 budgetary framework, which will enable us to act, but everything will depend on how this situation can be brought under control at European and global level. Last but not least, however, we should all be mentally prepared to ensure that immigration will not be, as it were, a phenomenon in European or Nordic society, but a permanent phenomenon, and that is how we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u83	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u84	Mr President! We already have an eighth year of recession, a difficult economic year, and seven bad years do not seem to be the next seven good years, as usual, and that is why we need the structural changes and reforms that are now under way. This amending budget welcomes the fact that the government's net borrowing needs will be reduced, but only slightly, and this year, however, some EUR 5.2 billion will be taken into account, which means that, at the end of this year, central government debt will be taken into account. Next year, debt is also going to continue. Even next year's demand for debt has been estimated to be about the same EUR 5 billion in the budget. That is why structural reforms, which have also been mentioned here today, are needed, and it has been positive that the opposition parties have also been hastened to these decisions to improve competitiveness and cost competitiveness, and that they are not going to enter into force until 2017. This is because we need more jobs and more work, and one important part of it is the social pact that has now been concluded. It targets 5+5+5 for the first five. The second five comes from wage moderation, from wage moderation, and the third from productivity growth, which of course means local agreement. When, for example, I myself have told many workers, friends and acquaintances, I have not heard an answer that would say that it would be better to be unemployed or to go bankrupt than to have a little less work. This is precisely what local agreement is all about, at that point in time, if one way or another, when the situation demands it, and the question is whether it is better to have less work than to have no work at all. In other words, this 5+5+5 model will improve competitiveness, cost competitiveness, and this will hopefully enable us to catch up with the changed situation of how we are lagging behind our peers. It is true that decisions are now needed, and the decisions that have now been taken in principle must also be brought into legislation and everyday life, and all decisions that are now being taken and will continue to be taken must always be mirrored through what they affect Finnish work. Every decision must be mirrored as to whether jobs will be created or reduced, whether it will increase employment in this country or whether it will reduce employment. If you look at the decisions of the previous regime, for example, you will find many that do exactly the opposite, i.e. employment did not improve but weakened. Next year's budget will not go any deeper in this debate, but I welcome the fact that taxation will be reduced for people with low and middle incomes, and I hope that this will also help to secure a small amount of purchasing power in these difficult times. But I am also concerned that those entrepreneurial, job-friendly decisions are only coming into force in 2017. This fourth amending budget, which is currently under discussion, has a few points that I would like to raise. First of all, I would like to raise these increases for migration, where the government proposes an increase of just under EUR 95 million in the expenditure caused by immigration due to the increase in the number of asylum seekers and refugees and certain adjustments in estimates. This proposal is now based on the estimate that between 30,000 and 35,000 asylum seekers will arrive this year. I found the idea of Minister Orpo, for example, to be interesting and welcome. In my opinion, it is one good way of reforming integration and bringing such people-to-people integration into use, and I hope that it will also progress. I also welcome the fact that there is also another government proposal in today's debate which decides to speed up the processing of negative asylum decisions so that the Supreme Administrative Court can have two appeals instead of three judges. Of course, I would also like to say that we could give up this last stage of appeal altogether and trust that these decisions will come about in a previously regulated order. Mr President! In the Debat, I commended the Minister for Defence for bringing EUR 0.9 million more money into the Ministry of Defence's operating expenses to secure training hours for Air Force Hornet aircraft. Last year and this year our Hornets have been in the air exceptionally much because of identification flights, and they have contributed to this training flight. We have a certain level of education debt in this area and we are catching up. On these issues too, we must live in time: we must ensure that the Hornets are in the air when safety demands it and, on the other hand, that there is also enough money for adequate training. Mr President! With these comments, the fourth amending budget is about to be submitted to us in the Committee on Budgets, and I welcome the fact that these decisions are being taken at such a rapid pace when we were only a moment ago discussing the third amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u85	Madam President! As has been heard here about the presentation by the Minister for Finance, the economic outlook remains bleak and action is therefore required. I would therefore encourage everyone here to encourage people to compromise a little on their own, to have patience for wealth. After all, it is those who do not in fact need to make the most noise about the benefits that have been achieved. The need to keep up the noise would be precisely for the unemployed, who will not be able to work because our companies are currently not competitive. But in my speech I also wanted to focus on the section which, in fact, is the largest part of this amending budget: the costs of asylum seekers. It is quite a huge amount of money that will add more than EUR 90 million directly to the cost of asylum seekers. We cannot ignore these issues, but that is why it is important that we take the measures that reduce the attractiveness of our country in relation to the other Nordic countries. For example, the list of safe countries should now be specified at the Nordic level. Our integration money should be brought to a Nordic level and perhaps to a German level. We should move forward with family reunification. It should only be possible to speed up the processing time — good work has been done here. And then those who get asylum here must be able to integrate properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u86	Madam President! As I said earlier in the debate and many other representatives said, the Government's proposal for a supplementary budget for 2015 describes the state of the economy well in the general explanatory statement, but those words and appropriations do not meet. And, as has already been said, this is no longer just a technical amending budget to correct the unforeseen changes. This is a clear line, as was heard today on behalf of many members of the government. Employment appropriations are not believed and are considered to be the wrong policy. So the government would rather pay for people to be unemployed or not to have a place of education than for people to be able to find employment. I can't understand this equation. The opposition in this Chamber has proposed an increase in employment appropriations in both the second and third amending budgets, but the representatives of the government parties have not, for some reason, taken up this joint offer. And, as I said earlier, the last, third amending budget added a small amount to the employment budget, which was a good start, 20 million, but it is only enough to cover the employment budget of Uusimaa. In Central Finland, the Ely Centre was left without an additional allocation for employment in connection with the third amending budget, although we are at the top of unemployment statistics. There's no such thing as the famous sanity here. When the employment budget is cut by EUR 50 million next year and unemployment continues to grow, I would like to reiterate my question as to whether the government intends to re-evaluate its own employment policy with regard to the draft budget that has already been updated. I could use some answers for this. I didn't get them today, but, of course, this conversation will continue. And with regard to the image of the economy itself, which Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, presented, it is a good thing that he and the government have gradually been able to say that it is not just about structural reforms but also about cyclical factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u87	Madam President! We will deal with the Government's proposal for the fourth amending budget for 2015. The global picture of the international economy is still blurry. The outlook for China and Russia, in particular, is worrying in terms of the economy, and of course it is reflected both in Europe and in Finland. Finland’s public debt exceeds the 60% threshold this year, although the debt ratio is slowing down. The draft amending budget proposes an increase of EUR 48.2 million in the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. The increase is EUR 13.1 million. In addition, EUR 23.1 million is proposed for compensation to private legal aid workers due to the increase in legal aid cases and the costs of legal proceedings for asylum seekers. An increase of EUR 9.4 million is proposed for compensation to municipalities for the reception of refugees. In total, these will all be well over EUR 94 million, and the calculations are based on the estimate that this year, between 30,000 and 40,000 people will come to Finland for asylum seekers and immigrants. Of course, the situation has come as a surprise to some extent, at least this extent. At the time of the government programme, it could not possibly be predicted that such a challenging situation in Europe and Finland would have taken place in this area of asylum, although of course there were weak signals or rather strong signals. But these amounts have been startling. The Government Programme in spring states: "An independent study of the costs and impact of immigration in our society, which enables factual debate and better integration policy and decision-making." This is a good entry, and I asked you before, but I did not get the exact answer in all its aspects and I still wonder: who is doing this independent study? And then the second question: when will the report be made and published? I am referring here to the records of the Government Programme, which talk about information management, and here too, there is a real need to try to lead with information. It is good that an independent study is carried out and that we look closely at the costs, the consequences, the impact on society as a whole of immigration. There will certainly be good things there, and there will undoubtedly also be great risks there. If we do not feel these opportunities, risks, threats, strengths, with what miracle can we lead this country and move things forward in a rational way? The fact that there has been such uncertainty over the last few months was, of course, due to the fact that this situation has come about on such a large scale. You can't blame the government and the ministers for that. They have done their best, and the situation has been brought under control surprisingly quickly, so that people in Finland do not move without knowing who they are and where they came from. In that sense, the situation is under control, but it is good that this report is being carried out. In many other countries it is done. During the last parliamentary term this issue was discussed, but for some reason this idea of information management and making a statement on this matter seems to be a little sensitive for some. I don't understand why. I understand that it is in the interests of everyone, both immigrants, asylum seekers, the population, and society as a whole, that we know what we are deciding and what is happening in our society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u88	Mr President! It is a pity that there is only one government representative in this Chamber, because without horns and teeth I would like to begin my speech with thanks. With thanks for the fact that this amending budget will provide an additional allocation for the Rauma maritime corridor, which will therefore be secured by this additional allocation to 12 metres. This is exactly what business in Finland needs at the moment. The task of the state is to find and support the economy and create opportunities through infrastructure, for example. This project will now be brought to the depth of 12 metres, which is, in fact, already a competitive factor for Finnish ports, and I would like to express my thanks for this. Well, then there are a few things I have to say about the previous debate. Mr Tolppanen said that he read statistics here, but it must be said that, in addition to the literacy of statistics, they also need to be analysed. The fact that youth unemployment has increased is by no means the reason or the fault of the Youth Guarantee, but it must be noted, for example, that much more has been invested in youth outreach work. That is where the young people who have been buried in homes and who have even been outside these statistics have just been found and have been made visible so that action can then be taken with them to promote employment. I am also a little sorry about the debate that has been somewhat historyless when it comes to the employment budget. Yes, the system certainly needs to be developed, but under no circumstances should it be buried, because it is an important and effective mechanism that we have learned from the recession of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u89	Mr President! In his own introductory speech, Minister Stubb also well pointed out the central problem of government economic policy when he said that this tightening fiscal policy by the government will cut economic growth. This also means that it will be detrimental to employment in this country. A good example of the harmful nature of this tightening fiscal policy is the forecasts of unemployment for next year. At the moment, it is predicted that unemployment will be higher in Finland next year than ever before in this millennium. The government therefore says that it is concerned about the increase in unemployment, that it wants to invest in employment, but it is not visible, nor is it reflected in this draft amending budget either. Instead, this shows expenditure cuts, which in the short term cut growth and thus also cut employment, and expenditure cuts in education and research, which in the long term will weaken the conditions for our growth. The speeches include presentations, talk about structural reforms in the labour market aimed at reducing wages, i.e. reducing purchasing power, which will cut consumer demand in Finland. That too is a measure that will undermine employment. Finally, as far as employment appropriations are concerned, there are still no additional appropriations. I also share the views of those representatives who have wondered a little about this view of our employment policy by the government parties in general. After all, employment appropriations are not the instrument by which we completely reverse employment developments in this country, they are done by fiscal and fiscal policy, but the idea of employment measures is to break unemployment periods so that we can tackle the main structural problem of the Finnish labour market, which is long-term unemployment and the growth of long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u90	Mr President! The amending budget includes nearly 100 million more money for the cost of immigration. I anticipated this budget in the debate on referrals, and this is now at hand. Efforts must continue to minimise migration costs and allocate only the necessary additional resources. The unit cost of seeking asylum is not a given truth; it can also be influenced. I would like to know from the government, from the ministers, what measures have been taken to dismantle standards in this expensive item of expenditure for our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u91	Madam President! I am concerned, among other things, at the coercive debate in this Chamber today that quite a few speakers seem to be going over the different mechanisms of the labour market and they are being spoken of without really understanding what they are talking about. These mechanisms, which should be distinguished from each other, are collective contract law, the universality of collective agreements and then our tradition of tripartite agreement. When it comes to collective agreement and collective contract law, we refer to the simplification of the right of individuals to organise themselves together to negotiate together the terms of employment that are respected at the workplace. We are talking about a system and a right that is protected by a number of international agreements and which, from the point of view of the worker side, is largely based on the historical experience that the parties to the agreement, the employer and the workers, are not equal when they negotiate just the two of them there locally. If collective contract law starts to be restricted, then we will act in violation of our constitution and these international agreements. On several occasions, the limitation of collective contract law is justified by arguments that are actually related to the generality of Finnish collective agreements, which is then a completely different mechanism. When we talk about universality, we are perhaps talking in Finland more than most of the systems exported to the West, which aim not only at legislation but also at the social partners agreeing on the conditions that are generally respected in the labour market and which have more or less legal status. We can remove the general tenacity of collective agreements locally in Finland, if we want to, without breaking much of any international agreements, but its problems come from the fact that, since we have such a strong general tenacity system, we do not have the general labour law legislation that replaces it, as is the case in other civilised countries in general. Therefore, if Finland were now to move away from universality, the result would not be the labour market in Germany or Sweden, but the result would be the labour market in Romania or Poland, unless substantial reform of the entire labour law is carried out, to start a debate on issues such as minimum wages, which have so far not even been seriously considered in Finland. Thirdly, in addition to these two issues, this same soup is confused with tripartite agreement, which in turn means the agreements and preparatory work of the social partners together with the respective government or political decision-makers, the informal negotiation work on which a significant part of the Finnish reforms have been carried out and which many researchers consider to be a key success factor in the Finnish model. There are major democratic problems with the triangular compromise tradition, and I myself have often criticised them, but those problems are not so much due to the fact that things are being negotiated in the trio, but rather because our political decision-makers are too lazy to play their part in this triangulation and often pass through things agreed in the duplex when they should be on the third foot. This is also the kind of system that, without an international legal mess, we will be able to give up if we want to. But here I would like to call on all the trio to return to history, to get to know the time when there was no tripartite agreement in Finland, in what kind of society we lived and through what kind of struggles and splashes were made in society. That should not be the case on very light grounds either.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u93	Mr President! We have awaited this fourth draft amending budget with great expectations. When this proposal comes through, you have to find that it is as disappointing as the expectations that the government would be in the economy here and now doing something. This Government's fourth draft amending budget does not include any measures to influence employment and economic development. It is a collection of compulsory expenditure solutions and technical income adjustments, but the idea of the government actively seeking to direct and influence economic development through its own actions is completely missing. That is regrettable because, however, every government has a certain number of actions and moments at its disposal. So far, traditionally, all governments have started to react to changes in the economic situation and show by their own actions what they intend to do with immediate action, and it is the draft amending budgets that have been used. This is not happening. At the same time, the employment situation is worsening. In fact, we already have 500,000 people without work. It is a massive figure and, of course, as this number increases, the number of long-term unemployed will increase. We are now making a very bad mistake by allowing this long-term unemployment to grow coldly and assume that it has no lasting consequences. But we know from the recession of the 1990s in Finland and from the experience of other countries that, unfortunately, as long-term unemployment grows, there are lasting consequences: exclusion, permanent exclusion from the labour market, loss of working capacity, the employer does not want to employ a person who has been unemployed for two or three years, but this risk of permanent exclusion. And then this goes into progeny, shows up as social problems in day care, in school. I believe that this choice is cruel and unnecessary, because, after all, a very small amount of money could have an impact on the eradication of long-term unemployment. The central idea of the Nordic model has been that, in the event of unemployment, society will play its part, the unemployed will not be left alone. This government is now actively forgetting the model of this Nordic full employment society and active labour market policy. Even more strange is the fact that the government spends a lot of time and energy promoting the fact that it cannot delay the decision-making process, that it must act quickly. For six months now, we have listened to this rhetoric both in this Chamber and even more in public. And all the time trying to see what the government is doing to improve competitiveness here and now, you have to find out every single time that nothing is done. This year and, as it seems, next year will also be years lost in terms of competitiveness. The Government’s own actions are based on the fact that it is building a coercive law package intended to enter into force in 2015. Until then.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u106	Madam President! This speech ended with a series of concrete openings, concrete proposals, concrete options. And now I really understand why it is happening here from the sitting that some representative from the Beachkangas or something like that pops up here and says that the opposition has no proposals at all: when they are already being presented for God's sake, there is no one here to listen to them. Would it not be unusual to demand that the minister responsible in the Council of Ministers should now be in charge not only to catch up but also to carry out these things, constructive proposals, openings, the views of the Socialists? And at the very least, it would be reasonable for those Members who, here from the sitting, are poking up and claiming very untruely that the opposition or the SDP have no choice, to be good and sometimes listen to them. Then, from day to day, there would be no choice when there were many of them, and there were clear openings to the speech that had just been made. And if this speech from somewhere now perhaps reaches the representatives of the government parties sitting in their office: catch up. Listen to what we are saying and think seriously about our options, because the key word that came out today was employment measures here and now. It is extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen, that we know about this employment situation and that the government parties, speaking here, would offer the sole view that it should be managed in terms of competitiveness by means of a pre-conceived solution, which in English means a 5% reduction in wages. Everyone understands that, first of all, this issue will not solve our competitiveness problem. If the government believed it would do so, then why on earth do we assume that the first steps will not come until later? I find this quite extraordinary, because here and now we need action. It is good that Mr Heinonen also walked in here, that important openings have come from the opposition in order to promote employment here and now, and I hope that you will also be able to pass them on to Mr Stubb. President! In this amending budget, as has been said, what we would have wanted from this paper for the third time now is that it would interfere with the employment budget here and now. Next year, the situation will get worse: 150 million will be cut to employment and the Youth Guarantee, which emerged here, will be virtually zero-funded. Let's take the money and say, "Hey, we're developing." And these are also the measures we should be able to take care of here and now, as I have said — I repeat, because this is the key word at the moment. There were quite significant speeches here from Minister Lindström. He himself admitted that this money was insufficient. He said 90 million would have been needed. By the way, he played 30, even though of course he has the scepter. At least the minister admitted that this money was insufficient. That is why I was most surprised when the Finnish economic expert, Turunen, spoke here that these employment funds are not really relevant at all. By the way, it is exactly the opposite of what the Finns had before the elections. I read the alternative budget of the Finns of Peru very carefully from a year ago, and there were more employment appropriations. They are now being proposed for surgery and it is stated from the mouth of the representative that they do not matter so much. So this is yet another indication of the 100 percent turn of the coat, starting with the incredible fact that the Greek package was made there with the Finns of Peru, and now all the employment appropriations go exactly the opposite of what was said. One of the things I have personally wondered about is how, for example, it is with such a good mind that the Finns of Peruvian origin, for example, can — it seems — participate in the ideology of the assembly and the centre and the Confederation of Finnish Industries and now speak with the people there in Hervanna Siwa or in the marketplaces that so the people have the pay of the laborer and the worker to be reduced by 5% or the people must be cut off from the pensioner. Those speeches are quite different, and the coat has turned now at 100% overall. I would also like to say, Mr President, at this end, that quite an important point came from that Minister, Mr Lindström, in his last speech: he said that he wanted to hold on to the TES. And that is what we really wish for this to be the policy of the whole government. That was the Minister of Labour's line here today. I think that Mr Stubb could have taken a position on this, and I hope that he can perhaps return to this box. Mr Zyskowicz arrived, perhaps then he will answer this question. I hope that you will be able to be, ladies and gentlemen, on the line that the TES and their minimum protection will indeed be adhered to. It came from Minister Lindström today. But here, Mr President, there are a few things. As has been said — if I go back to the employment budget — this is once again the point which we will then point out in connection with this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u107	Mr President! It is quite populism from previous ministers to tell and list here who is in the Chamber and who is not there. I remember a number of readings which were not attended by the Minister for Finance and were not even present at the time, and I dare to say to this Minutes that there was no representative today. Mr Viitanen will be sitting in this Chamber when this plenary session is over, but let us see if this is the case for Mr Viitanen to introduce a new approach and take part in these plenary sessions. I was just listening to you in the study, and that's why I came here when the invitation came. As regards the taxation of pensioners, it has been said and pointed out that there would now be a change in this way, but it must be noted in the Minutes that during the last parliamentary term in Rinte, the tax rate for pensioners was clearly and consciously separated from employees at most levels of income, and this was a conscious choice for the SDP at that time. In fact, this can also be found in the report by the parliamentary section. It may also be good to put it on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u108	Madam President! I always enjoy the evening sessions, where I often sit with Mr Heinonen, having these discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u113	Mr President! What Mr Viitanen of criticism has said is quite right, because there have been many, many debates here that have not brought forward key legislative proposals, and that is always a good principle. It now seems that this is getting better, and we must thank the government for that, if it is to be the case that these key legislative proposals on the list today are presented by each minister. But as far as this pensioner's taxation is concerned, there is indeed a lot of talk here about the turnaround of basic Finns' coats, whether it is the Greek package or the compulsory wage reductions or cutting off unemployed or pensioners. And as far as the decisions taken last season are concerned, please, Mr Heinonen, put the facts on the table. Do you consider the basic deductions made from there in 12, 13, 14 and 15? Do you take into account the pension deduction on the Ringe? Look at the balance for the entire parliamentary term in terms of the taxation of the pensioner and put the facts on the table. After that, we can compare.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u114	Mr President! Representative Heinonen introduced an interesting term, "Rinte's term of office".
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u118	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u119	Madam President! I am well aware that ministers do not always have the time and opportunity to be involved in these discussions, but I regret that Mr Orpo did not have the opportunity to take part in today's debate, because the most important item in this amending budget, however, relates precisely to this increase in the number of asylum seekers and the related issues. That is why no one here answered, for example, Mr Tolppanen's question regarding this information meeting of the protection police today, according to which this increase in the number of asylum seekers has also led to an increase in both the terrorist threat and the threat of violent hate crimes. This is linked not only to the tightening of the anti-immigration climate but also to the increase in the number of individuals who have come into contact with potential terrorism among asylum seekers. Now that we are talking about money, I am concerned about the situation of the security authorities, the police and the Border Guard and the fact that the resources are under-represented in terms of the need, if we look at this concern expressed by the protection police. At the same time, there is also an urgent need for the legislative reforms already initiated during the last period, such as the ex-post search of a legislative project, which is not possible in Finland as opposed to almost all other European countries and the Nordic countries. This would be one of the key tools for identifying possible ongoing terrorist plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u120	And two replies, first Mr Harakka and then Mr Myller. Then again on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u121	Madam President! Congressman Räsänen quoted the estimate of the syphilis. I would like to know whether he himself is of us that the violence against immigrants is caused by immigrants themselves by their very existence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u124	Mr President! I too would now like some clarification on this point, because the message that has come is that the threat of violent hate crimes has increased because of the considerable increase in the number of asylum seekers and the climate against immigration, i.e. how we respond to the increase in the level of anti-immigration. It is certainly not because of immigrants, but we need to have a really decent strategy in Finland, how we increase real, real information among people about the things that are responsible for immigration. I also acknowledge to the government that, through this amending budget, Finland has the resources to answer these questions here and now, because it is true that if proper immigration policy and integration are not done, there will certainly be problems. But we also need to be able to look at ourselves in the mirror and think about what such feelings are about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u125	Madam President! In that speech, I made a very specific reference, and only to that information meeting of the protection police and to the points it raised: indeed, the threat of terrorism and then the threat of violent hate crimes has increased. I also said that it relates not only to the tightening of the anti-immigration climate, which, of course, is never the fault of the victim of the crime but always the cause of the offender, but also to the danger that there will also be more people involved in terrorism among these large asylum seekers. Which means that the risk is also increasing. And this is precisely the concern of the protection police briefing today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u126	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u127	Madam President! At the beginning of the autumn period, we made a third amending budget, a few months ago, before this fourth amending budget, and we then criticised the government for failing to pay for employment. At the time, you-offices around Finland needed more employment money, and then and also today, Minister of Labour Lindström talked about the fact that there is no money, but he would put that money in if there were any. And then and again today, we criticise the government's line that the government wants to pay for passive unemployment and not for helping people get into the labour market. But today there was a new line for the Government Party in the direction of the Coalition Party. Among other things, Mr Lepomäki, who is unfortunately not here today, said that employment appropriations do not improve employment, and he referred to studies — difficult to say on what kind of studies. Do we really think that start-up money does not help people to become entrepreneurship? Are we genuinely of the opinion that pay subsidies do not help people to find employment? Genuine studies, including studies by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in recent years, have shown that, among other things, pay subsidies and start-up money are really good activation measures and thus bring people into the labour market. And while these people are still being followed for two more years, it will be seen that the effectiveness has been really good. It is also a state measure, or it is actually part of such a Nordic welfare state, to help people get into the labour market, and it is strange that the government, which says that Finland is rising with just work, does not want to promote job creation. This is certainly a contradiction. And as far as the bigger picture of the economy is concerned, there is a great deal of talk about responsible economic policy, it is emphasised that what the government is doing now is precisely the responsible economic policy. But I would say that responsible economic policy is certainly not about cutting back on the weakest, young people, pensioners, students and increasing the cost of the future. A responsible economic policy is not to cut overall demand by cutting excessive sums. A responsible economic policy is not about collapsing the tax base with global governance registers and providing access to tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u130	A couple of answers. From there, Mr Ala-Nissila and then Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u131	Madam President! This criticism of the representatives was overwhelming and, in some respects, incorrect, but this Finland will not rise or rise, even though an intermediate issue is being asked here every week, as the opposition wants to do. We are still living in the time when Mr Rinne has made the budget. No government cuts are yet in force, but we are living in a time of tax evasion and cutbacks in your budget. I would expect, Mr President, to have a choice of my own, a concept. When the country goes into crisis and the environment has changed, there will be no way out unless we change the concept, unless we have some new medicine here. It is truly unfortunate that this is such criticism and a question of a period per week, as Finland is not going to rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u132	Madam President! The Greens started opposition policy and received a lot of cheers from the audiences when they criticised cuts in education. At some point I myself was mistaken to think that that might be quite clever: that there is a clear focus, that cuts in education are not accepted and that an attempt is being made to give them a somewhat credible alternative. But as autumn progresses, the Greens have actually started to shoot all the savings. It is not enough to shoot down the savings in education, including the issue of housing aid for pensioners. Of course, there is opposition to cuts in development cooperation. We are now opposed to the fact that there is no more employment money. And then, when it is said that yes, we Greens have an alternative, that is to cut these civil servants' kilometer allowances and these kilometer cuts are going to compensate for these hundreds of millions of cuts, so that I say to you, Mr Yanar, that this is humbug.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u133	Then there are two replies. First of all, Mr Lindtman and Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u134	Mr President! I must take this criticism from Mr Ala-Nissilä. First of all, his speech shows exactly what Mr Viitanen said earlier. From one day to the next, from one week to the next and from one month to the next, we are going to tell and offer a variety of alternatives to the wrong policy of the government, for example, rail cuts which could be cancelled by introducing only one-fifth of the planned reduction in car tax that the government has decided to make, or the introduction of the Rinnene model, which will lead to active employment expenditure from passive unemployment expenditure and thus to Finland's rise. But no, Mr Ala-Nissila does not hear, he just comes and tells us that there is no alternative. And as far as these interim issues are concerned, when we look at the balance of last season, we will certainly not get there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u136	Mr President! In that way I would like to understand Mr Ala-Nissila that he was not in the Chamber when this debate took place earlier and these opposition alternatives were presented. He came to the Chamber in the middle of everything and took a speech from the hip about which he thought it was appropriate, and that was very appropriate, because it showed exactly what Mr Viitanen said was true here. So no matter what we're talking about here, you're either gone or you're shutting your ears. In this respect, however, Mr Stubb is, in my opinion, above the class, because he said that all our proposals will be accepted, starting with this Rinne proposal to make unemployment benefit active support for employment. I think he even promised me that he would accept this suggestion that the car tax... No, I think he rejected that, but the car tax rebate cannot be used to ensure that VR's purchase services are carried out. But he did accept my suggestion to take a little look at these indirect labour costs of the employer. At least he said he would be welcomed, Mr Ala-Nissila has still not heard them. However, after this debate, I think you will ask for a statement of minutes from which these options are visible. After all, the option of the SDP leads to lower debt than the government does. You're increasing your debt, not reducing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u137	Mr President! It is the government's favorite argument that there are no alternatives, despite the fact that they are constantly being presented, and Mr Zyskowicz even called opposition policy a humbug. In fact, I would like to ask the representatives of the government parties, too, that what is your option in the end? Is it not high time that you too were able to show that your chosen political line also works? Now we have lived in Finland since 2012 under the conditions of this tightening fiscal policy — and what are the results? Unemployment has continued to grow, the deficit has increased and indebtedness has continued. Now, according to new forecasts, unemployment will be at a higher level next year than ever before in this millennium. That is, if anything is a sign that government policy is not working.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u138	Madam President! In fact, the representatives of Lindtman and Heinäluoma have already just told me that just a moment ago I was on that podium and I hoped that the government parties would listen to what we are proposing so that there was no need to have this debate constantly, that 'you have no choice'. Prior to that, Mr Heinäluoma made a long and analytical speech on that podium and presented a number of options.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u143	And then there are three answers, and then we will go back to the list. These persons are representatives of Ala-Nissilä, Zyskowicz and Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u144	Mr President! It is true that economic development has been even worse than expected. I merely referred to the fact that we are living in the time of its previous government budget. I mean, this representative on the Rinte model has an idea, right? That's what I've been quoting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u147	Madam President! I'll answer to Mr. Andersson. In fact, I have not called the opposition policy of the Left Alliance a humbug, on the contrary: in one speech a few weeks ago I said that I believe that the Left Alliance is the only opposition party that has clearly stated what their alternative is. And their choice is to take on more debt. The Left Alliance told us this before the elections, sought support from the citizens, did not receive much more support, but has kept up its line, believes that when savings are abandoned, more debt will be taken over, so long the debts will be made available and this will get things right. But when the Greens, who point out at every turn that they have alternatives, say that the kilometric allowance for officials is being cut, I think, Madam President, this is a waste of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u148	Madam President! The last speech was of course entertaining, but let's say that it does not include defence in the direction required to prove the direction of government policy, government economic policy. When it comes to the fact that there are no alternatives, there is clearly no listening to opposition politicians and opposition parties, the same things are being said, as has just been said, from the hip. I would say to the government parties that you should show that you have a good policy. Not that you are talking about the previous period, but that you are arguing why these measures are necessary when you market them as such. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u149	Before entering the list of speakers, Minister Orpo will take the floor, three minutes from the seat, please, and then to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u150	Madam President! I regret that I have not been able to take part in the debate here, and it is quite a short time now, but I wanted to speak briefly. For my part, it is important that the amending budget takes account of the cost of this increased number of asylum seekers. More than EUR 50 million will be allocated to these necessary reception costs, which are absolutely necessary in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative field, because we must receive these people and examine their affairs and take care of their accommodations at the outset. We have undeniably had the whole reception, internal security resources and staff working really hard since that summer, doing a lot of work, great work. This work would probably never have been possible without their stretching, but it would not have been without the important role of the third sector, above all the SPR, in this reception. But the starting point is that with this money, which more has now been allocated, we will be able to deal with this year's affairs. In the past, the protection police were already allocated additional appropriations in the amending budget for this reception in order to have sufficient resources to screen through the large number of asylum seekers and thus to take care of their own task of internal security. This brings us to another topical issue, which is that the protection police have today published their updated threat assessment, the previous one being from 14 C.E. There is no drama at this time, but they felt it was their job — and that is what their role is — to express an assessment that in Finland too the threat of terrorist attacks or violence has increased somewhat and the main cause is the immigration situation. There are different divisions: Firstly, this great immigration has raised extremism and the tension between extremists and between them and immigrants has already caused things that we would not have liked to see, but can continue to cause. In addition to this, there is growing concern about immigrants getting along internally, because they have people of different backgrounds and, in Finland, we have the way that everything is located in the same reception centres. Then there is the real threat of terrorism: today, the protection police told us that there are some identified persons among this large number of asylum seekers who are known to be linked to terrorism. This is a very small number in relation to the whole, but nevertheless serious, and I think it is justified that this should be explained. All in all, there are about 300 persons to be followed, so to speak. This does not mean that we have 300 terrorists in the country, but means that there are 300 people in Finland who are known to have some connection to terrorism or terrorist activities. But with its small resources, the protection police, together with the police and the CID, are doing an excellent job and trying to keep the situation under good control. There is no reason why the average Finnish should now start to fear, but the protection police do their duty and raise the security risk from very low to slightly higher. For individual risk factors, there is no risk of a planned large-scale terrorist act in Finland at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u151	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u152	Mr President! It is worth saying to Mr Orvolle — this is just a minute — to the Minister that I think it is valuable that in Finland the protection police and you, as Minister, say what the protection police have to say about the situation. This is how open democracy works, democracy in Finland. I have the impression that the feelings and views of the majority of Finns correspond to this assessment by the protection police. For example, now that I was listening to you there, I found no surprise or that kind of surprise. It is clear that when tens of thousands enter the country, it also raises such assessments of security and the rest of the population, but I think it is good to be transparent and to be told. The people are wise, and they are well aware of where they stand. It's good to have a protection officer, and it's especially good to have a minister who's on the line. Mr President! I have asked to speak a little about what has been discussed here today, and after what Mr Orvo has said, it is not quite easy to move from a budget perspective to this day-to-day policy. But there are a few comments about this afternoon's conversation. Mr Rantakangas started very arrogantly by criticising the Social Democrats and calling for more action in favour of a social pact or a wage solution. That's when I thought that the only person the Prime Minister would ever see. The Sipilä has, as I recall, praised by name on two occasions, is one of our best men, Mr Ihalainen. There are many other good men and women here who have, in a way, tried to make a positive contribution in order to achieve a good wage and contract solution. It was really loose, record-breaking loose talk from the beach deck — Sipilä boasted and Beachkangas throws lip here. Even today's debate has so far shown that social democracy is an act, that is, social democracy is a verb. We'll do it. Here, too, we have spoken and called for more employment initiatives, employment initiatives, and we have a large number of our own proposals. The second name of the centre representative, which I shall mention, is Mr Ala-Nissila, who now left again, and then comes back here in a moment and says something. Mr Ala-Nissilä, with him, then demanded that Finland rise from the opposition and from the demars. This is now such a small-scale donkey bridge to the fact that there is also a little too little in this fourth amending budget: the Academy of Finland's research budget will be reduced by EUR 10 million — you heard correctly, will be reduced — and then strategic research funding by EUR 4 million. I don't know how many people read about Helsingin Sanomat about a week ago Vesa Vihriälä, CEO of Etla, with one very interesting point. This financial advisor for the Kepuans also suggested that the government should now consider these significant savings and cuts in education, knowledge and research — now, Mr Zyskowicz. Well, it has not been read in Vesa Vipriälä's article or at least understood that this is what is being done. We all know that Finland will only rise with knowledge, with basic research, which will then create the conditions for new jobs, which will then be able to cope with the world market and unemployment. Well, we're going to present a correction to this, of course, we won't accept this. We are genuinely, Social Democrats, the Education and Education Party and we certainly do not accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u153	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! The previous speaker said that social democracy is termed the verb. That was a new information for me, but if its former Minister of Education proves the toilet in Parliament, it is at least thoroughly settled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u158	Madam President! As far as Mr Zyskowicz's speech was concerned, I thought I had some kind of criticism; although I did not understand exactly what it was about. I asked Mr Räsä to clarify what he had said about the relationship between immigration and crime, and he has done it well, and it is certainly good for everyone that it has now been clearly stated in the Minutes. It is not always the intention of the representatives to be unambiguous in the speech — sometimes it is deliberate, but this was not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u159	And another response, Mr Viitanen. Then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u160	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, when you spoke here about this taxation of pensioners, would it have been fair, if you felt today that you were not able to do anything about it, to the pensioner that, before the elections, you would not have underscored that this is a fundamental philosophy of the coalition and that we are making equal reductions, we are not putting pensioners in an unfair position? It is very confusing when, before the elections, Mr Stubb first says to so many pensioners — I too have been asked about it afterwards, how this can be possible that this tax gap can now be created by the coalition — and then, after the elections, the same Stubb, the Minister of Finance, Stubb, in his own motion, will make a different statement. So now we have to ask that if the Coalition Party disagrees with what the Coalition Party is saying, whether it is the Finns of Finland or the Centre Party or who wants this tax difference, because no one wanted it before. And to this end, President, from this education: Mr Zyskowicz, you said it was a bad operation. If you don't believe the opposition, believe the economists. When I asked a number of economists in the Committee on Finance whether you know any economists who would recommend or at least consider educational cuts to be acceptable in some way, the answer was that we do not know, on the contrary. Make a wise economic policy, at least through this, cancel certain lines of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u161	Madam President! Perhaps it is good now to clarify this tax debate in that, of course, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, put forward what had been agreed together in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and that was a government proposal. An honest answer, if you ask who, in the run-up to the election, presented a EUR 450 million reduction in earnings: The Centre Party of Finland presented, and in this sense they acted with open cards and got their way through the negotiations on the Government Programme, which, of course, the voter's confidence in them gave them parliamentary strength. As far as cuts in education are concerned, it is quite certain that every expert you ask in the Committee on Finance or elsewhere — a person who is teaching and training or who emphasizes the importance of research — will say that this should not be cut off. But did you ask them at the same time that, well, what should instead be cut from?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u162	Then to the list of speakers, Mr Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u163	Madam President! I would respond to Mr Lindtman’s accusations, how the Finns have turned the coat around and how we explain these in these markets. I said when the election campaign took place that asylum tourism does not belong in this country or a penny in the Greek packages and that employment must be restored. So where's the jacket turned? Nowhere. Ben Zyskowicz said that when we are in the government, compromises will have to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u166	Mr President! First of all, a few words on this debate on the government's competitiveness measures. The weakness, therefore, is that we now have an additional budget here, where we could already do something about competitiveness, employment, but that is not what we are doing for this year. After all, most of the discussion now concerns what the Government will do in 2017. When Mrs Zyskowicz said that this coercive package is like this, how it was, a propagandistic term, I would like to remind you, however, that the real father of this terminology is Prime Minister Sipilä, who, when presenting this package, announced that the government has ended up with mandatory legislation. And of that, the journalists, I suppose quite rightly, took the term'required legislation' and the term'required law', because these are, after all,'required laws', Mr Zyskowicz. This specifies that we must not agree on better working conditions than the government does. This Chamber takes the right to decide on collective agreements and the working conditions of employees, if the Constitutional Committee so permits, which I dare to doubt. It is a very special concept of democracy, and in Western countries such proposals are not made by governments to decide on working conditions in parliaments. Some other societies may have had them, but not ours. This is an incomprehensible phase of what we are living in, and I am very surprised that all three parties are swearing to this. In particular, I am surprised by the Finns who claimed to understand the workman. That's all that's left with the workman's understanding that his drink is allowed on Saturday night, but the wages are taken away by the Finns of Finland. In good cooperation here, this seems to be what this trio is doing, undermining the working conditions of the workers. That's what it is. When Mr Hakkarainen, whom I appreciated earlier, said that he did not turn the coat, he has only made a compromise, you can say that I compromised and forgot my own principles and took these principles into account and now I am going to pass them on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u171	Reply to Mr Hakkarainen, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u179	Minister Rehn wishes to speak. One minute from that spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u180	Madam President! For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out to Mr Heinäluoma that the clear aim of the government is to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production specifically in order to improve employment, not something else to which Mr Heinäluoma referred. I welcome the fact that negotiations are under way in the labour market field, and also the fact that the SAK has shown its readiness for a moderate wage settlement. Adding to this local agreement, which will increase, improve the conditions for productivity, we have the ingredients for a good solution that would improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production through cooperation. When you, Mr Heinäluoma, in your speech just admired the great men of the past and the great men of the past — your list of men consisted only of men — tell us that, if before men were iron, why are we about five years away from the economic downturn and there are almost half a million unemployed people in the country? Why don't we get some drugs together and fix these past mistakes?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u181	Madam President! Indeed, as Mr Heinäluoma said, it was the party that dared to acknowledge the situation in this economy in the run-up to the elections and saw what the facts and facts were. Now that it has become clear to others, in this situation, all the discussion about what can be done to help this situation is very welcome. After all, there has been a rather pedigree debate here today, and there has been criticism of the government's representatives for not being here and not being there to hear and not being there to respond to the presentations. All the proposals that have come from the democratic side, which will increase the incentive for work, jobs and employment, will indeed be needed in this time and must be taken seriously. We look forward to what is still to be done on 19 November, when it is so advertised here. Mr Zyskowicz here made a very clear statement on the pension issue. Here, when it has been claimed that the taxation of pensioners would increase with these income reductions, the fact is that the tax on pensioners will not increase with the reduction in earnings. What is, of course, a little affected is this reduction in the threshold for the solidarity tax, but obviously — I understand — the democrats are also very much in favour of this. As far as this verb is concerned, I would have asked whether it is so that it is used in such a way that you social democracy, he social democracy, you social democracy — and what it means. Quite a difficult term in itself, but with interest I would also hear it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u182	Madam President! Such a thing that if I could speak as well as sawmill, this would certainly be better. But I don't have that kind of talent. I'm used to working with my hands more than with my mouth. But I found out one thing about this immigration, since there is now an opinion in those asylum centres about the quality of food and this sort of thing. I'm sure it has something to do with this time in Gustafsson's ministry. I read about this: in Finland, school food and institutional food have a long tradition, and 100 years ago the schools offered warm meals, at first for the underprivileged, but in the 1920s already about 80 per cent of the schools were offered a free meal. 1946 came the law on school meals, when all schools were obliged to offer free meals to students. Mass food, or institutional food, actually goes from baby to grandpas throughout our society. Day care centres, comprehensive schools, vocational institutions, universities, armies, canteens and care institutions for the elderly offer institutional food that Finns have learned to appreciate. Everyone understands that if thousands of meals are made, it is not à la carte food, from which one can choose snacks for one’s own taste each time. This food, however, has been grown by a people whose life expectancy is improving and healthy years are increasing. With an incredible amount of money, about 80 cents, you get the raw materials of a day’s school meal, and with careful planning and Finnish system you create a day’s nutritious meal with salads, bread and drinks. Vitamins and trace elements and calories have been carefully calculated. From an early age, we have been taught to appreciate this rather unique privilege in the world. In foreign countries, Finnish school meals invariably cause admiration, and even Finland is regarded as a model country whose tracks would be followed. But even that small cost, for example, will become an obstacle in English discussions. I find it confusing to read the news about people moving to our country organising demonstrations of the institutional food we offer them. Rebellion is born there, strike and so forth — just because of the news that has been heard. And yet Finland’s school meals, institutional meals are appreciated in the world. They're not good enough for this. About this immigration thing. I came here one morning to work in the morning. I slept in the car in the parking lot. There was a van parked there. There were Thai berry pickers sleeping in the seat. If these so-called immigrants who come through the Tornio were to be subjected to such conditions, there would be a terrible noise. But these volunteers are going to work. Because I went to see them in the autumn when they were working on the berry field. They came to work regardless of the circumstances here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u183	Madam President! A few separate comments on this debate. I must say that the behaviour of some of the MPs in the government party is somewhat similar to that of the holidayer at the beach sauna: he sometimes throws a few moons of water on the stove and leaves again to cool off to come back and renew this same process. Representative Hakkarainen must be told that an emotional, good school meal talk, but I would also ask the basic Finns to consider in principle what your child eats. Do schools recommend domestic food, or is it the case that it is those people in this country who are unable to choose their own food — schoolchildren, the sick, the elderly — who eat the imported food imported from abroad? You might want to focus on this before glorifying 80 cents of school dinner. What's in the background? There is no food produced domestically. In particular, it must be said that Mr Heinäluoma was able to release almost perfect text.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u190	Madam President! With regard to these so-called mandatory laws, I would like to say a few more points. There are even a couple of times a suspect, which must be the real motives of the government when it is pushing for these improvements to Finland’s cost competitiveness. I don't quite know what conspiracy theories are being nurtured here, but I can't imagine that the government has any other goals than the best in Finland. As far as these coercive laws are concerned, as I have already said, the government does not want them. The Government wants solutions to improve our cost competitiveness in Finland, which improve the competitiveness of Finnish work in the world and thus create new jobs for Finns. It suits the government very well that the solutions are created between the social partners and that these laws will never be brought into parliament, or, if they are imported, they will not be taken from here. Earlier in the day, Mr Heinäluoma has drawn attention to the constitutional aspect of the matter. I do not dare to take such firm positions on this issue when I never know what these professors think, but as far as freedom of contract is concerned, there are two aspects. Firstly, contrary to what has been suggested here, these so-called mandatory laws do not restrict employment contracts. So it is not the intention of employment contracts to prevent employers and individual workers from agreeing on working conditions, as they see fit, as good as they wish. Mr President, as far as this freedom of contract is concerned, it requires a few words, so I come to the toilet. Madam President! As I said, I will not go further into this constitutional reflection, but I would like to say that, when it has been taken for granted here that such a restriction on the right to a contract between the trade union movement and employers' organisations would be incompatible with the Constitution, I would like to say that the whole system of universality — the whole system of universality — is a certain degree of restriction of contract law and that the whole system of universality restricts contract law there at the workplace. This system prevents the workplace from agreeing on working conditions that are worse than the general TES. Even an entrepreneur who does not belong to any employers' association and an employee who does not belong to any employee's association, TES, which is generally binding, prevents them from agreeing on working conditions that are worse than TES.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u191	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u205	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Then we go back to the debate, and the practice continues that, due to camera automation, all the speeches will be used here on the podium. I'm sorry about the practice, but here we go. Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u269	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u315	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u320	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u322	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u324	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Minister Rehn, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u325	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Minister Rehn, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u326	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Minister Rehn, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u328	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 15th of the order of business. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u333	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u345	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 4 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-03-ps-57.u346	For table setting, the 30th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 4 November 2015.
