ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u1	The Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Banking Ombudsman have chosen their chair and vice-chairman as follows:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u2	The third item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Committee on Finance. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects Harry Wallin as an alternate member of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u3	The fourth item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u4	Madam President! This is the first Question Time of this regime, and I would like to wish the new government wisdom and justice. Mr President! Thousands of parents of young children, early childhood education professionals marched past the Parliament House yesterday. They had concerns about government cuts on children, they had concerns about the fairness of the surgical package. The government's cut list is long because the well-earned are excluded from these economic activities. I ask Prime Minister Soin: Last Saturday you said in Helsingin Sanomat that capital taxation can be reviewed. Do you still agree?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Of course, the government programme, the strategic government programme, is what has been committed. However, it is quite clear that if situations change and the government parties decide together, then taxation will also be possible. In this economic situation, it is self-evident and important that the burden is shared among the various population groups. The government will assess the overall economy in the autumn budget debate, and that position will also be clarified. The starting point is, of course, that what the government has agreed on together will have to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u6	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u7	Madam President! This is important because, for example, by checking capital taxation under the option of the SDP, an additional EUR 100 million could be collected into the state treasury, which could cancel many of these painful cuts and savings on children against whom people, thousands of people, marched on the streets yesterday. Now that the Prime Minister has previously admitted in this Chamber that these economic conditions do not apply to the well-off, when Archbishop Mäkinen has appealed to you to include the good people through taxation, we are being flooded with messages from parents of small children, local carers, early childhood education professionals who appeal to the government to review your decisions, make them fairer. Now that you have said that this issue can be assessed, are you going to raise this issue and what is the position of the whole government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u8	Madam President! The Government has clearly stated that the overall tax rate should not increase. This is the line the government is sticking to, and then in the budget debate one can agree that if something is raised, then something will have to be calculated as well. Then, of course, the budget is a whole. You mentioned here that there are no points of interest here. Both the Raippa tax and the solidarity tax will continue, and it will hold...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u13	Madam President! Children have only one childhood. That's what they told me yesterday when I was at the Just Two Hands event. Too large groups increase stress in the everyday lives of day care workers but also of children. Learning social skills and getting a sense of security become more difficult in too large groups. The government is now planning intensive farming instead of early childhood education. Adults, especially rich adults, are voluntarily involved in savings, but children are forced to participate in savings. Minister of Education and Education, your government is now making a choice of values. Is it really the case that in this time it makes sense to make savings from children instead of investing in children and making savings in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u14	Madam President! We all know that Finland is in a difficult economic situation, that savings are necessary and affect the everyday lives of all Finns. I understand this very well, too, as the mother of a small child: I have a two-year-old child of my own, and so I am in daily contact with municipal early childhood education. I very much understand the concern and the question marks of what is currently in the air in our families with children. But I would also like to remind you that in various measurements, OECD comparisons, Finnish early childhood education is very good in quality. That's where we're at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u17	Mr President! Here the Minister of Education raised these savings in early childhood education, and it is clear that the government has made very large cuts in early childhood education. The last Parliament approved the first part of the reform of the early childhood education law, and the next part just needed to improve the quality and dimensions of kindergarten teachers and day care, and now you are going the other way: you are increasing group sizes against the recommendations of all experts. It seems that this decision-making method was idealized in the government negotiations, that matters were transferred to the vatoutunikorkoho to be decided by three men — who did not know what they were deciding — so that this kind of idealization of futility came to be a matter of study. Do you really think that these decisions to cut education and early childhood education are in the interests of Finland’s future? Cutting off our children weakens our educational promise
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u18	Mr President! In the previous reply, I explained the reasons why we are in a situation where everyone is being cut off. We have long lived in a situation where our welfare society has grown and where costs have also risen dramatically. And now that there is a weak economic climate and, in addition to that, industrial restructuring is taking place in our Finnish society and that there is also a sustainability gap in public finances and the great need for reforms, we are in a situation where we are forced to take decisions that no one in this House and this government would have wanted to take. That is why standing here defending these cuts is a tough place for this whole government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u19	Mr President! Yes, it is a question of value choices, values, what we save and what we cut off. The savings proposed in the Government Programme are unfairly targeted, as the Prime Minister said in this Chamber when the Government Programme was discussed. Children have now been subjected to excessive government savings. Minister, there is no mention of early childhood education in the whole government programme for the Ministry of Education and Culture. The only entries are on the operating lists. During the last period, the reform of the early childhood education law was initiated, which was definitely accompanied by a declaration of the second phase. It now seems that this reform of the early childhood education law will be completely watered down if this second stage does not occur. In any event, it will be destroyed because the objectives of the law — increasing pedagogism, increasing the participation of children and making their own early childhood education plan with each of them in cooperation with their parents —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u20	Madam President! Yeah, he's on his way. The second phase of the Early Education Act will be completed. At the moment, we are going through a commentary which, by the way, was soaring. These are the details we look at and make and prepare for good legislation. After all, there is a major early education reform going on here through the fact that early childhood education is understood not only as a child’s day care, but also as a way of keeping the children somewhere for a day so that the parents can work, or otherwise. We are talking about early childhood education, that is to say that it also has educational, educational content that supports our long educational continuum.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u21	Madam President! Quite a lot has been said recently that this economic situation is really weak. One important question is how we can get this economy and employment to the point where we can afford to increase the cost of the welfare society and the great products it has and the services. That is why I ask, when we currently have a marginal tax rate about 8 percentage points higher than the European average, whether we should not now also create stability with this tax, a broad, low, stimulating tax base. Let's create a job. We will be able to create that aspect of education then and there will be more funding. I would ask Minister Soin: would it not be time for such a long-term, supportive, employment-friendly policy and clear messages that it is now worth creating work in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u22	Madam President! Congressman Jaskari is right, as is his way of being. Economic activity and profitable work is the key to us managing schools, nursing homes, children, disabled people, people dependent on public support in many ways. We have a shortage of employers in this country. We don't have a shortage of manpower. We're short-staffed. We have a shortage of people who dare take risks, dare to invest, take others to work and take responsibility for it. We must realise that only profitable companies can produce jobs, and we must encourage people to take this risk. This will give us more tax revenue and then we can make well-being. This is what the government has a lot of ambitions for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u23	Mr President! First of all, you have to ask the Prime Minister's deputy: You said quite well that we have a shortage of employers and, therefore, a shortage of jobs. You said, Mr Soini, that this is the case. How, in your opinion, would this idea of raising capital taxation serve this purpose? At least my own understanding is that it weakens the desire to invest in Finland, weakens the desire to invest that capital here in the country of origin. Could you be more specific, Minister Soini? Then we must also ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: you will remember that during the last parliamentary term it was examined whether it would be economically sensible to limit subjective day care. It was then established by the Ministry of Finance that it was not profitable in economic terms. Could you tell us now how this new surgery of yours will then work economically so rationally that it actually serves our society, not to mention how much harm it will do to our early education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u24	Madam President! After all, tax is only paid when profits and profits are made, and that is the way it should be. In this country, I am really encouraging better companies to make profits that can then be taxed. As far as capital taxes are concerned, the government has announced that the overall tax rate will not increase. If you pick up something, you count something. This matter may then be dealt with in the budget debate, but it requires unanimity on the part of the government. That decision cannot be taken by any minister or a few, but is then a joint decision by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u25	Mr President! I would also like to say to Mr Haglund that, despite the limitation of subjective day care rights, every child will have the right to early childhood education in the future, and I would, in fact, like to see the groups that benefit most from early childhood education, for example more migrant groups. Of course, the economic impact and the achievement of the savings targets will be carefully investigated in this legislative process. We have only just begun the preparation of this government's action plan, and the preparation of this law is still at an early stage, so I am sure that we will be able to come back to these economic effects several times later.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u26	Madam Speaker! Of course, I understand the concerns of kindergarten teachers about the growing workload. I think we all understand that in the Chamber. However, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that this is also a question of reducing standards. After all, no one obliges the municipalities to introduce that number 1:8, but there can be a 1:7 or even a smaller standard. In other words, it is a question of reducing standards, My question to the Minister is when, during the last parliamentary term, there was a great deal of stability with that second stage and these qualifications were particularly highlighted there: what do you think, in that second stage, can we now replace the nanny who is doing excellent work when they retire, the kindergarten teachers, so that we can strengthen our very high-quality early childhood education even further?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u27	Mr President! Indeed, during the last period this early childhood education law was being prepared, and perhaps the problem was that it was being prepared there until the end of the parliamentary term and it was not possible to complete it at that time. Certainly, if we had been able to get started earlier, we could be a little longer, but fortunately this government can correct this and bring it to Parliament as soon as possible in the second phase of the early childhood education law. Finally, on this appropriate question by Mr Puumala, I would like to say that, in fact, various studies have found that even the greater importance of group sizes is attached to the professionals who work for it, who provide the early childhood education there in our day-care centres. Skills, its development, are of great importance in how our goals in early childhood education will be realised in the future. It is therefore important that we continue to have as well trained professionals as possible in early childhood education as we do today, fortunately in the majority of day-care centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u28	I would like to admit one more question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u29	Madam President! So now the situation is that the Prime Minister has previously admitted in this Chamber that those who are in favour of your government will not be affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u30	Madam President! The government has stated that the overall tax rate will not increase. This is the policy of the government, and it is, of course, being adhered to. Of course, what the government can do within this line has a chance, of course, and that can happen. Then, when you say that families with children are suffering: some families with children are suffering, but I would like to say that this government overturned the previous government's policy of cutting home care support and defining home care support from outside the family. This is a good decision. There are a large number of children living in the home care allowance, and now society is not interfering. And, Mr President, children's allowances have not been touched.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u31	Madam President! Yesterday, thousands of Finns protested that the government would destroy the quality of early childhood education and bring a child’s class society to Finland. Today, dozens of Finnish professors and top researchers have published an open letter to the government. This letter requires the government to carry out a gender impact assessment of its government programme and also implement a gender equality plan implemented by previous governments. As the Parliamentary Information Service has already shown, this government programme has to be said that the biggest cuts are directed at the public sector, especially women-dominated sectors, and the biggest index freezes are directed specifically at women. The Government makes a very sad history in Finnish gender equality history. We are facing a deterioration in working life
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u32	Madam President! The Government has made a strategic government programme, made priority choices, made choices, which, through key projects, are choices for families with children and those who are able to work part-time, in order to take Finnish society, right into the heart of the Finnish welfare society. There are many issues in the Government Programme that are among the top priorities and objectives. On the other hand, the government is preparing – for example, on my own desk there are currently 27 government proposals on the subject – what kind of proposals are coming to Parliament, even though there is no government programme mention. Gender issues are a matter for the whole government, and we are preparing the gender equality programme for this parliamentary term, for example, on our own agenda. When that time comes, you will have it here for your consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u33	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this issue to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u34	Mr President! Minister Rehula replied that this was a strategic government programme and therefore did not mention equality as a political objective, for example. Yes, it must be wondered whether, for example, equality between children and gender equality is not, to the greatest extent, a strategic issue. Various studies have shown that when gender equality is mentioned in the Government Programme, it also makes a significant contribution to equality. This is evidenced by the investigation. How can you claim that it is strategic precisely not to mention the objective of equality? This is the first government programme in Finland, after Lipponen's first government, where equality is not included as a political objective at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u35	Madam President! Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, you said in your first speech that the government is making history in the area of equality. We are now in a situation where this government is responsible for the country's veto for the thirteenth day, and there are a great many things that have already left for preparation. We don't have quite the answers, but there are things that are already in preparation. Secondly, we must also have clear objectives in the area of equality. I know that there is a broad assumption within the government that other matters that are being prepared are also taking place in the spirit of the strategic government programme. I am happy to take on board the core issues that must be put at the heart of equality policy during this parliamentary term: what are the half-dozen questions on which, by the end of this parliamentary term, equality must be progressed? I'd love to take your feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u36	Madam President! I must say that, in relation to this government, Mrs Myllykoski has found out what justice means, and that means right. This government programme, which is so-called strategic, is indeed a strategic solution, and the questioner Alanko-Kahiluoto rightly pointed out that this has been a strategic decision that equality does not have a touch with this government. The euro for women in the labour market is 85 cents. The role of women in working life in that respect, and especially in those areas where the birth of a child is a financial responsibility, is unequal for smaller pensions and then for businesses. One would have thought that this very government, which supports and justifies entrepreneurship with regard to Minister Rehula, would have taken a position on it. In what way does this government intend to make the implementation of the Government's reflection on and highlighting the impact of gender equality on this government programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u37	Madam President! Of course, the equality programme and the improvement and promotion of equality must have a face. We have a situation where the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for the fact that, for example, the document that has been drawn up during the last parliamentary term, the equality programme for the government, will be drawn up. But the promotion of equality between men and women, between women and men and in society is the responsibility of every ministry, and it is the responsibility of every law to make these assessments. How will the gender impact assessment of the Government Programme be carried out? I'll let you know when I have a ready answer. Today, we don't have it yet, but you can be absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u40	Madam Speaker! First of all, I would like to point out to Minister Soin that preventing forced distribution of home care support is not by any means the work of this government, but the Christian Democrats in the previous government made sure that this was not done. But I would have liked to ask Minister Ruhula if it is not rather risky that these cuts, which have now been presented in the Government Programme, will be very strongly targeted at women-dominated sectors, they will be targeted at health care, education, education. You say that you do not currently have those effects. When are you going to explain the economic impact of these cuts precisely from the point of view of gender equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u41	Madam President! I say quite openly and frankly in front of Parliament that on the thirteenth day, when I was Minister, I do not have this information. The Government Programme has been written, its financial programme has been written in a way that has been based on the fact that, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said here, the first, the primary objective is that the child should be entitled to day care, early education, just as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said. Secondly, how do these solutions relating to the reduction of municipal expenditure come into play, after all, when we have legislation in Parliament? At least I can't tell you today. If there's anyone in the hall who can, fine. But there are figures in euro or some percentages — they do not yet exist today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u42	Madam President! Congressman Essayah was right. In time you have sown the right thing in the right way, and this good government has taken it into account. That line of yours is now being implemented by this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u43	Mr President! After all, this government programme states that, in the context of pre-school education, when the municipality is no longer obliged to provide normal day care but to provide paid club activities, the six-year-old would no longer be entitled to that normal day care, as Minister Rehula said just now. What does this mean? Either families with children pay, or one of the parents stays at home or moves on to part-time work, and a six-year-old child cannot be left alone for half a day, as was still the case in my youth. Most of the time, the other parent is the low-income mother. How, then, do you feel that this is equal, that it is mothers who have to stay at home again for one year to take care of the child?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u44	Mr President! We 6-year-olds have the right and will also have the obligation to participate in pre-school education, which happens to be of excellent quality in Finland, and it prepares our children for the school road, and it will be well able to even out the starting points in order to facilitate the school road at a later stage. In other words, this is one of the best gems of the Finnish welfare society: pre-school education, absolutely excellent. And as far as this reform is concerned, which would allow the municipalities in the future to have more free hands on how that time after pre-school education would work out from that day, the preparation of this is only very early and there is not yet much concrete to say about this, but here too we can come back to the matter when our preparations and this action plan are progressing and the preparation of the law begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u45	Mr President! I would also like to address these impact assessments of the law when they have been raised here in many speeches on the gender impact and then on the impact on children, and why not also on the impact on municipalities. I would like to remind you that we have had a problem for many years, that these impact assessments on legislation have not been enough, and that has been a problem for more than one of our governments. After all, a few weeks ago, the Ministry of Justice put forward a proposal that we should take special care and invest in this good legislation, impact assessments. If you have been observant, you may have noticed from the government programme that such a separate effort is now coming, and I hope that we will be able to do that already in the coming autumn, so that good evaluation work can be done on these too, which has been discussed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u46	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u47	Mr President! Some time ago, the PM's deputy here said that women are allowed to choose, that families are allowed to choose who to care for the children. Does he also think that women have chosen that we have a lower pension, that we have a lower salary? We women have worked for decades for subjective day care, for equality, for equal pay and for all policy measures to be evaluated also from a gender perspective, because we know that it is not a question of choices, but of discrimination, and it also requires that the government shoulder the responsibility of treating women fairly in this country. The equality programme — it is, of course, very good that it will come, but I would like to ask: can the government promise that it will already come in the budget, because otherwise it will certainly not be of great use? It has been very worrying to read the government's programme in its strategy, which is completely thought of... [President MariaLohela : Question, RepresentativeBiaudet!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u50	Madam President! For its part, the Government is responsible for making progress on equality in Finland. But what is the impact of wage equality on pensions — this decision-making is also influenced by other actors,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u53	Madam President! As has been shown here, the right-wing government is attacking many sections of the population with hard hand and severe cuts. In the case of pensioners, the tens of thousands of pensioners who are currently receiving housing allowance for pensioners are the victims of the most severe cuts. Kela's calculations of the allocation of this operation have just been completed. 40000 low-income pensioners lose between EUR 100 and 200 per month. You heard right: between EUR 100 and EUR 200 per month. In addition, between EUR 50 and EUR 100 per month, another 40000 low-income pensioners will be lost. The left is of the opinion that this is a completely unreasonable cut in the way of those who build this welfare state who are currently pensioners. Is the government really going to make such a drastic cut in the income of pensioners through the loss of housing allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u54	Mr President! Surely we share in the government, everyone, this concern about how these difficult cuts can now be carried forward in such a way that the burden will not become unreasonable to anyone. It is quite true that today this Kela report has come out — or, let us say, preliminary calculations have come out — and they are, of course, taken very seriously. And I am sure that, during this process, we will look at the overall picture that will emerge from it. But it is clear that these structural reforms must be carried out, and that also means that we need to harmonise our social security system. And it must also be borne in mind that the cost of social security in the state budget is very high. Unfortunately, how we can secure this basic security for people in the future means that we must also be able to look at the overall picture, but certainly so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u55	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u56	Mr President! This abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners is not a restructuring, it is a clear cut. That is EUR 123 million, which is what we are trying to achieve. The Government Programme contains very beautiful phrases about improving care for elderly people, supporting living at home, improving home delivery services and so on — they are just beautiful sentences. And, on the other hand, when, earlier in the previous period, there was a hard debate about, for example, the human resources dimensioning of enhanced service housing and the size of the 0,5 per customer, the Government Programme is now further weakening this dimension, which was already perceived to be inadequate at the time. So besides these cuts, it is also a question of reducing the quality of the services provided. Is the government really going to weaken this dimension?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u57	Madam President! The Sipilä government has an inheritance in some matters. And one of the legacy of the services of the ageing population is that institutional focus needs to be placed on a more home care-oriented service structure, a service model. We must try to find ways in which everyone in the best place, i.e. the home, can live, live and be, above all, live a safe life. Directly to the question: the Government Programme has no change to the current situation in terms of carerisation. On the contrary, the pressure is to relax the current requirements which are contained in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u58	Mr President! I would like to return to this housing allowance for pensioners, in that it is true that there are pensioners to whom this will certainly sting more than others, but it must also be remembered that there are also those who will receive housing allowance with which this support will rise. In other words, this is not just a bad reform, that these systems should be harmonised. Yes, to the greatest extent, it is also a question of this structural reform and change being carried out, and it is necessary to do so. We will not have a social security system like this if nothing is done. And to that extent too, I would say that these are beautiful sentences, that I do, admittedly, find it a little disproportionate what has been shown here, that 13 days after the government has started operating, these guidelines of the government programme are being condemned so that they are only beautiful sentences. There is also mention of the fact that such a programme for the prevention of loneliness is being carried out and that it is precisely the role of the elderly that is being improved and taken into account and that measures are genuinely being taken which have also been called for by the last government, including in the area of home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u59	Mr President! This government divides the people in two. It is visible in equality, it is visible in pensioners and families with children, it is also visible in education. Now that these figures have been discussed, EUR 100, EUR 200 — in the meantime — will be cut from low-income pensioners living in the city. These are women in particular, because women are the low-income people through this inequality of pay. This is not what you promised, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Soini, before the elections. What do you say now to these people who are being cut in this way, on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u60	Mr President! Let's take a look at the whole thing. These shortcomings, which you mentioned, are part of this painful solution. Just as Minister Mäntylä said, there are a large number of pensioners who are not subject to this surgery. And for some reason, Congressman Rinne, you've forgotten your bail pension. Good EUR 20 of guarantee pension will come
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u61	Mr President! Yes, these new calculations of the housing allowance for pensioners certainly make us all concerned. I want to stay on this subject. However, it is not so simple, as the Minister has raised here, and I would like to be sure. Is my understanding true of what you mentioned in passing? In other words, a pensioner's housing allowance will apparently be cut if these benefits are aligned with other benefits if he has a reasonably large or above average rent or dwelling compared to the local rent level, and apparently the subsidy will increase if the beneficiary has a small rent and a small dwelling. Is my idea the right one?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u63	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! EU-ländernas toppmöte går av stapeln strax effecter midsommar. Just nu är både statsminister Sipilä och finansminister Stubb uute i Europa och de har under de senaste dagarna också träffat centrala europeiska beslutsfatta, och det är är ju Jättebra.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u64	Madam President! Greece is in a bad and serious situation. Greece had to reply to Mr Juncker last Thursday, they did not. I don't think there was an answer on Friday. I think there was a phone call on Saturday. The response given to the Eurogroup by Greece is light. It does not give way to debt, it does not improve debt sustainability, and at the moment it seems that there is no agreement on this basis. I believe that Syriza's actions in this regard have been irresponsible. Of course, Finland is a country complying with the rules. We also expect Greece to comply with the rules that have been agreed together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u65	I would ask the representatives who would like to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u66	Madam President! I would still have asked the Prime Minister that if the Greek Government's line of action changes and there is a common note, will the Finnish Government be able and prepared to participate in a possible new aid package for Greece, if necessary, so that the currency can stay together and Greece can continue as a euro country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u67	Madam President! The negotiations are now at a delicate stage and I am not going to speculate on that situation, but let us first see the outcome of the negotiations. In the last parliamentary term, however, Parliament committed itself to capitalising and creating the ESM system, and that decision has been taken and Finland is committed to it as a country. I hope that Greece will take a spoon in its beautiful hand, make a negotiated decision and, in the future, this debt problem will be easier. At the moment, it does not look very good, and I am pessimistic about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u68	Madam President! The situation in Greece is what would be the situation in Finland in the future if the advice given here by the opposition were taken seriously. So the advice is to shoot down all the savings of the new government. Today it is said that the savings are for women and children, tomorrow the sick, the healthy the day after tomorrow, are for ordinary Finns, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u69	Madam President! Today I had an excellent opportunity to compare two debt managers. I met the Icelandic Foreign Minister, who told me how this debt crisis was handled in Iceland. Of course, it is clear that if Greece fails to reach an agreement, there will be no agreement, then Greece will go into insolvency and, in practice, bankruptcy. That is the alternative: either an agreement that is jointly accepted, or insolvency and bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u70	Madam President! The Christian Democrats understand the need for economic adjustment, but in the run-up to the elections and also to the government programme, the chairmen of the political parties assured us that security would not be compromised. Three months ago, a parliamentary working group on internal security and justice put forward a unanimous proposal proposing an increase of around EUR 100 million in total for these sectors in order to make up for that degressive spending limits level and maintain the current level of activity and staff, for example in the police, Border Guard and Customs. Now, however, there is only half of that increase of EUR 50 million in the government programme, and this will have a huge and worrying impact on this internal security situation. For example, I myself have assessed, [President MariaLohela : Question,Mr Räsänen.]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u73	Madam President! It is true that the 75 plus 20 million in the fight against the shadow economy proposed by the parliamentary working group is not fully capable of demonstrating internal security in the Government Programme. However, this 50 million was shown in the situation we have been discussing here today, which means that we have to cut every place. In this situation, it was possible to allocate this 50 million to this important target. As far as the police are concerned, the situation is that next year will look reasonable. It must then be recognised that the challenges are great in order to maintain the current level of security, but the government programme also includes the fact that we are going to prepare an internal security report which will be presented to Parliament next year. It defines the level of security that Parliament and the Government want
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u74	I'm gonna ask those of you who want to ask a few more questions to sign
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u75	Mr President! All these issues — yesterday’s demonstration, support for pensioners’ housing, internal security — only tell us that when billions are adjusted and cut, they are everywhere. Of course, in this background there is concern that our entire economy has only gone down from year to year. My question to Mr Rehn is: What's going on here in the real economy? Yesterday, the Bank of Finland came up with quite a number of worms. Is there anything positive in terms of this winter, spring, that would give it a margin,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u76	Madam President! I would answer Mr Vanhanen's question by saying that, according to the Bank of Finland's figures yesterday, we are still in recession. We have a very difficult situation in the Finnish economy, which means that the first year of this year has been a time of non-existent growth, and exports are below the corresponding level of last year. And when we look a little further, we currently have a national product of 6% below the 2008 level, industrial production of 13% below the 2008 level and exports of 20% below the 2008 level. This is an incorruptible report, and it tells us that it is necessary to correct the course. The Government has undertaken this work in the direction of three main objectives: first, to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production building a social pact on a broad basis in a spirit of dialogue, and secondly balancing public finances; The goal of everything...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u79	One more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u80	Mr President! I wish Mr Orpo every success in the fight for these appropriations. The resources of internal security also include the resources of the Migration Administration. After all, the Finnish line has so far been clear that we have not supported intra-European transfers of asylum seekers, but our position has been that each country is responsible for the investigation of asylum seekers entering its own territory. I was now rather confused when I heard that Minister Orpo said that: However, Finland might support the Commission's proposal on internal transfers, which I believe is a disastrous path, because it would only make human smugglers more attractive and could mean bringing up to 800 asylum seekers here in Finland. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Finnish line, the line that the governments and parliaments have so far had, does not support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u81	Madam President! The Government Programme is clearly based on the fact that we have a certain quota of refugees. It will be held, but we cannot, in accordance with the government programme, be opening the tracks that can be opened at the moment. This will be a matter for the government tomorrow morning and then the big committee will come. Of course, the government will have further discussions on this, but it is just as Minister Räsänen said. I don't think it makes much sense...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u82	Madam President! It is quite true that tomorrow, in the Committee on Ministers, the government will adopt its position on this issue. What has changed, in fact, since the government programme has already been written, is that the European Commission has introduced a so-called emergency clause requiring all Member States to participate in this huge immigration problem, particularly in Greece and Italy. Over the past year, 300,000 illegal immigrants came, mainly across the Mediterranean. This year, the pace has accelerated, and the problem is not only there in southern Europe: over the past year 80,000 people came to Sweden, 200,000 to Germany, the number of asylum seekers is increasing in Finland. Together, we must seek European solutions for these, and Finland must be involved in seeking these solutions. Tomorrow we'll take over with the Prime Minister's replacement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u83	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u84	Madam President! We will discuss the report of the Library of Parliament for 2014. The beginning of the reporting year was marked by the preparation for the library’s return to the renovated premises on Aurorankatu. Because of the move, the library was closed to customers for seven weeks. However, requests for data from parliamentary customers were handled normally during the closing period. The changes ended once and for all in the schedule planned in October. The renovation made the library’s premises unhindered. The investigators got their own workspace downstairs. The library invested in marketing, and the library received new customers. Presentations were organised in a re-opened library open to all. All parliamentary services were invited to visit the renovated facilities. Nearly 1,000 people participated in the guided presentations and brought new customers to the library, especially from the group "others". This group consists mainly of citizens who are not researchers or students. The data acquisition methods of the library's customers have undergone a major change because of the wide availability of data from different fields. The number of visitors to the Parliamentary Library and the number of use of services have decreased. This is why the library board decided to shorten the library’s opening hours by 9.5 hours a week. Abbreviations were targeted at evening times, when the library's visitor sample shows the least number of visitors. The abbreviations made it easier to allocate the library's human resources to the content of information experts rather than on call. In particular, the staff of the online services and archive participated in the development of the parliamentary handling system in cooperation with other units in the building. The interviews of Veteran MPs’ memory archives were launched and 13 new interviews were conducted. Madam President! The library field in Finland lives in constant change, as in other fields. The number of libraries has decreased in recent decades due, among other things, to municipal mergers. Borrowing figures and library visits are decreasing. Digitalisation is changing our behaviour to independent of time and place. Competitive forms of time are increasing. According to the Government Programme, the purpose is to provide for a law — and now a direct quote — which allows municipalities, at their discretion, to determine how they organise services in accordance with the laws listed in the law. This entry also applies to the Library Act. According to the current Library Act, the municipality can organise the library services itself together with other municipalities or in other ways. The significance of the Government Programme entry will be clarified in the near future. Building and opening the Helsinki Central Library in 2018 will certainly increase public interest in libraries. This may also provide opportunities for the Parliamentary Library, for example, for further marketing and other cooperation. I would like to thank the library staff for their good work, which serves a wide range of Finnish society, democracy, free access to information and freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u85	Madam President! Representative Kiuru gave an excellent account of the library’s report for 2014. It is good that we have now also been renovated for use here, and the fact that we too are encouraged both to acquire information and to self-learning, to be able to educate ourselves and develop in this work is extremely important. Madam Speaker! Overall, I am of the opinion that library services remain in Finland as part of local services, although there is a great deal of concern here as a whole. Often in those small towns, library services may even be the only public services where young people can meet, discuss, educate themselves as well. However, I think it is essential that, when we develop and regulate legislation on local services here in Parliament, library and cultural services will also be at the top of the priority list. All in all, I welcome this library report for 2014 and, overall, I also encourage new representatives to use the services of our magnificent library.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u86	Madam Speaker! There is an annual report from the Library of Parliament on last year, and that has been a very good review of this renovation process and the way in which it has come into this situation. The point I would like to draw attention to now that this annual report is going to committee and will be adopted: I would hope that customer groups outside Parliament will continue to be taken into account in the development of the Library of Parliament. The Library of Parliament is very important to many students. I myself have a very personal experience of this, namely that a couple of years ago the Library of Parliament helped me a lot to finish my own Master's degree, and I think it is very important that, even under strict economic conditions, we invest in social and legal research, including human sciences. Your Honor! I hope that this will be taken into account in the follow-up to this annual report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u87	Mr President! This report by the library is a good example of what is going on in the middle of the renovation, what is going on in the front of change and change. Data processing and accessibility are changing at a truly huge pace at the moment. This renovation is a good example of that change is happening all the time. Now we really face the challenge of how we can continue to develop the library's activities very much in future, so that new forms of data processing, new forms of access to information are made more accessible to the public at all times. The operation of this library is hopefully also an example for other libraries of how things can be developed further. This library of our Parliament is indeed very important to the sensitivity of Parliament and Finnish legislation. It is very important. I hope that, during the coming parliamentary term and this year, we will also be able to make further progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u88	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for his excellent speech on the report from the Library of Parliament. In fact, Mr Kiuru's speech has raised all those points very well. It is great that Parliament now has an excellent library on behalf of its premises, which is certainly one of the best in the country. And now, as we heard, a new central library will emerge in this city centre of Helsinki, which will complement this library chain. But in this context, Madam President, it must also be pointed out that there is a network of libraries operating throughout the country, which is a very important part of the education work. The library still serves as a traditional library, but it must be remembered that it is a meeting place for many. And for many, many Finns today, it is also a place to read magazines, because the subscriptions are quite valuable and the financial situation of many people does not allow you to order all the magazines you would like, but the library network in this country offers you a great opportunity to do so. It is good for Parliament to keep this in mind that we keep the municipal economies in order and the entire country of the library network, because it is part of Finnish cultural work and is part of Finnish culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-11-ps-19.u89	Madam President! In the same way as representatives Savola, Maijala and Hoskonen, I draw attention to these rural library services. Libraries have a significant preventive effect when it is considered that we can calculate our social and health costs in this Republic. In this regard, I think it is important that in the future, in the development of the Parliamentary Library, we ensure that in the provinces too, long-term loan services work, regional libraries, rural libraries can remotely borrow the rarer works here in Helsinki, for example, when research or study-related writings are carried out.
