ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mr Wille Rydman has requested exemption from the appointment of a large committee. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u3	Madam President! The Annual Report of the National Audit Office for 2015 highlights two themes for the Finnish Parliament: the capacity to implement structural changes in the administration and the integration of society. In particular, the annual report has assessed the administrative capacity to use ict to increase productivity. At present, the administrative capacity to implement is undermined by the excessive number of measures to be pursued. Improving productivity through digitalisation has been the goal for a long time. However, the results have remained more modest than expected. It has not always been possible to verify in hindsight what the objectives and expectations of development measures have been based on in terms of costs and cost and productivity benefits. The achievement of productivity targets requires decisive leadership and active guidance at national level. It would therefore be useful to consider whether one of the current ministers, or even one of his own, would be clearly responsible for the management of the whole digitalisation. For example, there are now a huge number of long-term projects in municipalities, including Apotti, worth more than EUR 400 million. Mr President! The number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion has increased in Finland. About a quarter of a million Finns live on basic social security. The risk of exclusion is particularly high for unemployed young people and some immigrants. The unemployment rate for immigrants is three times higher than for the whole population. Displacement and lack of work are costing the economy billions of dollars. The Annual Report has previously drawn attention to the fact that, despite requests, the government has not reported the tax deficit and the amount of tax residues as required by Parliament. Now only a few taxes have been included in the Government’s mountain report. Mr President! Parliament has called for measures to be taken to set up a legal impact assessment unit. A proposal to set up an impact assessment expert unit in the Government has also been made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the unemployment situation of young people and their life situation were striking my eyes from the annual report of the National Audit Office. This same observation follows year after year in one way or another, and this time it says: "A quarter of a million Finns live on basic social security. Half of them are under 30. Around 5% of young people under the age of 24 do not have a post-basic level qualification and are not in employment or education. According to Statistics Finland's survey, young people who speak Somali have a high risk of being left without a degree and work, of which as many as 41 per cent are without work, education or a post-basic school degree." Mr President! We have received a great many different projects and measures in society to facilitate youth unemployment and social exclusion, but their results are not always what we hope for. Many times the results will look good as long as someone on the course has, but when the course ends, it will turn back to this sort of goalful challenge that we are trying to retrace. I would like us in the committees to pay more attention, among other things, to the competence of the third sector in these measures to prevent unemployment and exclusion. It is old-fashioned to think that a young person in a difficult life situation can be helped with so-called eight to four hours of office. Secondly, the various measures to combat the threat of punishment alone, such as the abolition of unemployment benefit, do little to help prevent exclusion. There is much different evidence of this. We currently have about 110,000 young adults under the age of 29 who have no secondary education at all, and the lack of education is the main cause of the risk of exclusion. In that sense, Mr President, we in the government should take a spoon seriously in a beautiful hand and see that every young and young adult gets an opportunity to get into a line of work or training for them. The audit report mentions that the expenditure on unemployment benefit for young people amounts to around EUR 470 million per year. In addition, in 2013, their income support expenditure amounted to over EUR 700 million. I understand that we are talking here about young people under the age of 24, because this age has been mentioned earlier. Mr President! Finally, we have a major challenge for a large number of refugees coming here to Finland, where more work will be done to get these young people into a training line in some way, if they stay in Finland for a long time. As this statistics shows, we face a particularly great challenge among young people in Somali, for example, and I would like us in the government to seriously consider how we will work with them in the future. Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention that during the last term of the Committee on Education and Rural Development attention has been paid to the fact that guidance for studies should begin earlier than the 8th or 9th grade. In that sense, I hope that this issue, which remained unfinished during the last term of the government, will continue in the Committee on Culture and Education, and that new measures will be introduced in the field of study guidance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u5	Mr President! Mr Niikko paid very close attention to the role of the third sector, which has been far too neglected in this kingdom. In time, President Martti Ahtisaari set up a working group to find out how best to use the third sector. As a result of that working group, an estimate was made that if some form of tax deduction were created from donations to the third sector, more than 50,000 new jobs could easily be created. I think this should be re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u6	Mr President! Indeed, at regular intervals, these possibilities for tax deductions are being discussed, and the Inspectorate has also examined the amount of these tax subsidies on several occasions. It is, of course, important to assess tax subsidies and other subsidies from time to time, especially when these tax subsidies are being neglected, their targeting and their functioning and whether they lead to the objective for which they are intended. But this will then lead to one observation, on which I would like to ask the views and information of the present government parties. When that aspect of the basic Finns' programme of drastic cuts in development cooperation funds was presented before the elections, this cut in development cooperation funds has been implemented. But there was also the idea of a tax deduction for citizens when they donated to development cooperation. I would like to ask what is going on with this tax deduction right for development aid donations. Is it also coming into this follow-up process? If anyone could tell me, I think there's probably other people interested here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u7	Mr President! This highlighted, for example, the exclusion of young people and the need to involve people in active measures. One possibility that would be is that, at the moment, when we are paying labour market support for the basic daily allowance, if it could automatically be used as employment aid, it would be more effective for people who are unemployed. Instead of being paid home passively, it could be paid as a pay subsidy. And this would be one possibility that would facilitate the risk of exclusion that is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u8	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma asked about this tax subsidy for donors of development aid, which is true that it is part of the Parliamentary election programme for Finns. But as you know, Mr Heinäluoma, we had many other good ideas there in our parliamentary election programme that are not being implemented in this government programme, and we are, of course, sorry that this government programme was not one with our election programme. But, in fact, this objective is important and good, because it would certainly increase people’s willingness to donate if, for example, the funds donated to the third sector, specifically the organization field — and why not also to the congregations — were tax deductible. This is an important objective in the future, and I am sure that, for my part, at least, I want to do everything in my power to achieve that goal. Finally, I would like to say that we must also remember that in their parliamentary election programme the Finns did not propose cuts to Kepa's development aid organisations, i.e. not to these Finnish development aid organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u9	Mr President! In this way, it is only unfortunate that we have two programmes, which we have been talking about recently. One is an election program for Finns, and the other is a government programme. For example, Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, admitted yesterday in this Chamber, that this is the case, that everything that was promised to the people before the elections is there, has come back and the coat has been turned, and that is very unfortunate because there were many good things in your programme, including this tax deduction. Now there is a situation where it is needed more than ever. I am now very much in favour of Mr Niikko and other Finns, and I would like to say that I hope that you will be able to fight for these objectives of yours. All in all, we have... Today, for example, we just came out of that market from a demonstration, and there were employees... [President MariaLohela :Mr Viitanen,I ask you to speak in this direction,as the voice of the Members of Parliament. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u14	Mr President! In this debate, a great deal of concerns have been raised about the annual report of the National Audit Office for young people and young adults who are either waiting for their first job or who are unemployed, or for those of study age, and it is true that one effective way, for example, would be to strengthen that guidance. I myself am calling for early intervention, and one of the most effective means is our already well-functioning maternity clinic system. Personally, I would like to think about the fact that the first signs of exclusion, which are often the first signs of exclusion, would be made to cover as much as possible all Finns who live here, once it would be possible to tackle those problems even when the first signals are visible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u15	Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Niikko said about the employment of young people is very important, and it is actually the essential thing that we need to be able to deal with in a very short time when we see how the local authorities are currently running out of employment appropriations. The government has now been in power for more than a hundred days, and yet in large cities the situation is completely catastrophic. For example, it is completely impossible to get into apprenticeship training at the moment. I would now like to ask Mr Niiko directly, who is clearly in the government's conscience: who is there in the government who is holding back the lack of sufficient money?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u16	Mr President! Of course, representatives of Viitanen and Heinäluoma know from their own experience that when you are in the government, the election program that the party has, in this case the Finns of Finland, we are not one to get into the government program. We have a great deal of things that we have achieved in the negotiations and in the government, but not all the good things. So I have to say that there are some things that must be accepted if we are on the board. And thank you, Mr Niiko, for raising a very important point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u17	Mr President! I will come back to this matter of tax deduction, which was raised here earlier and which was mentioned and also commented on by Mr Niikko. Now that these development cooperation cuts went through the basic Finns' programme, I believe that many others besides me are interested in whether the Finns in the negotiations presented this possibility of tax deduction for development cooperation donations, the right to tax deduction. When Mr Niikko was present in the negotiations himself, at least on the basis of the television pictures, I would ask you to tell me whether you made such a proposal at some point in time. And when the coalition so often supports these tax reductions and tax reductions, would this not be an easy way for the assembly to reduce the impact of these very hard development cooperation cuts, if such a private activity-rewarding reduction existed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u18	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, I myself was not involved in these negotiations and I do not know whether or not such an alternative was proposed. But I'm sure I'm already so interested in it that I'm going to ask you about it. But as far as Mr Guzenina's remarks are concerned, what is holding back the fact that there will be no such money for employment, yes, a good question, I too am concerned about what is holding it back, because it has been so many months that the appropriations have been exhausted. Of course, this will certainly come to the region where I sit, the Committee on Finance, and elsewhere. And, of course, the conscience is already saying that, although we are in the government, there must be a voice in this area, and I believe that there is an understanding in the government that these funds will also be increased. But it must also be said that we can no longer do, in the old fashion, just shoveling money into a hole at a certain amount and hoping for some results, but we also need to develop
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u19	Madam President! Mr Viitanen has come here directly from the rally at the Railway Market, and this relates here to the concern about our economic growth and the sustainability gap on page 139 of the report. This day-to-day situation is right now that Akava and STTK are ready to present to the government a more balanced and fair way of doing this 5% cost competitiveness leap, and it is now a question of whether SAK is ready. The SAK Government will meet on Monday, and it will be measured whether solidarity will be found with low-paid workers in the care and commerce sectors, who are treated unfairly and unequally by this government model. Of course, I appeal to the SAK, but also to Members of Parliament such as Mr Viitanen and possibly Mr Heinäluoma, who may still have links with that Hakaniemi, that you speak of solidarity and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u20	Mr President! After all, we have been starting to think that if we settle this matter, we will be able to deal with it all the time. We are very sad that the government has chosen a different line and already in advance tells us the result of the agreement. Yesterday it was quite shocking that when people were talking about low-paid people, women-dominated sectors, nurses, policemen, bus drivers — these people are genuinely concerned about their livelihoods, it is a big money for them if they leave 100 to 200 euros a month, how the family is doing — here the right side of the hall and the basic Finns laughed. I do not think there is room for arrogance in this atmosphere. Now the government should explicitly say that it does not stubbornly stick to its own objective. Surely the agreement is not that the other party, the government, there In the pocket of the Confederation of Finnish Industries it is dictated, which should be the outcome of the settlement. This isn't how it works. Everyone understands that. I wish you would.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u21	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz specializes in how to get poor and low-income people to fight — or at least try it. I don't know if it'll work; I doubt it will. He would be happy to break up the lines of this movement of employees and put a debate on the fact that the government is going to decide that 5% of wages will be calculated, and then that decision, which is also questionable from the point of view of the Constitution and fundamental rights, that implementation will be put to these labour market organisations, the employees' side, though, and how would you do this 5%, whether you take the left pocket or the right pocket? Here, Mr Zyskowicz, you are very good. But I suspect that the Finnish wage and salary earners are slightly more intelligent than you seem to think at the moment. They'll see this through your propaganda. The government has intervened in matters that do not belong to it, i.e. working conditions. They are not government affairs, not in any Western country, and I hope that you, as a lawyer, will appreciate this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-18-ps-36.u22	Madam President! In order for the historians not to be mistaken, it has to be said that yesterday's laughter from here on the right side of the hall was heard when someone from the left side said that Tehy and the nurses are currently angry, and it was said here that 'yes, to SAK'. This is a very real situation. I've seen smart midwives on TV on Wednesday night two, yesterday one and today one more on the radio. And all these midwives — and I believe that other care workers, other shopkeepers, police officers, jailers, bus drivers, all — would be willing to share this pain together in a fair and just way, because they have realised that we need measures to improve competitiveness and thus improve employment and create jobs in Finland. The ball is now in the corner of the SAK and the question is whether there is solidarity with these low-paid women.
