ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mr Pirkko Mattila requests exemption from membership of the Finnish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and Mr Mika Raatikainen's alternate status. The Council of Presidents shall support such requests.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Education, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u3	Madam President! Early childhood education is a very important service for families and a very central part of our education system. Early childhood education is also the most influential part of our education system – it has been developed especially pedagogically in recent years. In day care centres, our children are cared for by highly educated pedagogy professionals. Early childhood education today is no longer just a matter of getting children somewhere for a working day, but early childhood education is a pedagogical, systematic work that supports the child’s growth and development. I think it is important that the right to early childhood education is available to every child and the right of every child. Due to the difficult economic situation, the right to early childhood education is proposed to be changed so that each child is given the right to a high-quality 20-hour early childhood education per week. A child would be entitled to wider full-time early childhood education if the parents or guardians work full-time, study or work full-time as entrepreneurs. Mr President! We guarantee families the opportunity to influence the service they receive. 20 hours of early childhood education must be organised for families in at least two alternative ways, either as part-time education every day, which would certainly be the better option in pedagogical terms, or as a part-week service, which could be particularly relevant if there are long distances between home and day-care centre. The needs of the child and the family will also be taken into account if one of the parents becomes unemployed. In this case, the child will be guaranteed the right to full-time early education during a two-month transition period. Despite the change in the right to early childhood education, the child retains the right to a day-care centre with nurses and kindergarten teachers familiar to the child. Early childhood education should always be organised at the current level if necessary due to the development of the child or the circumstances of the family or otherwise in the best interests of the child. I consider this to be a very important part of this legislation. When the right to early childhood education changes to 20 hours a week, the need for a wider right to early childhood education must be assessed together with the family. The Government's proposal proposes that the amendments enter into force at the beginning of August 2016. This is what many municipalities and those working in early childhood education have hoped for. Municipalities will have plenty of time to prepare for change, and the changes that will take effect in the autumn will be the least disturbing to day-care centres’ daily lives, when the new operating period will otherwise start. We also give municipalities freedom in the organisation of early childhood education and the freedom to exercise discretion in granting a full-time day care centre. There is no need to introduce heavy bureaucracy: municipalities may require a study of the need for care, but there is no necessity. We rely on the families' announcements and the assessments of our trained personnel. We will closely monitor the effects of the changes to the law. Early childhood education must be organised in such a way that the objectives of the early childhood education plan, as defined by law, are also achieved through the participation of 20 hours. It is always the responsibility of the last hand to ensure that early childhood education is organised safely and in accordance with the needs of the children. The proposed change in the right to early childhood education implements the spending savings required in the Government Programme to balance public finances with early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u4	Well, and in this context, the debate on the debate on the debate, so I would now ask those representatives who wish to use the reply to reserve it by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u5	Mr President! Minister, I would like to ask: what does truth mean? As these changes are now being made to early childhood education in the name of the restriction of subjective day care rights, we are not in this ride for the first time. During the last term of the government, this was abandoned because there was no savings coming. Firstly, on the basis of the precedent of the Constitution, it was already considered that the unemployed and their children were excluded, because there is a strong precedent in the Constitution on this issue, when the unemployed should not be involved at all. But you, Minister, have involved them and have ignored this constitutional aspect. Furthermore, we are surprised that, during the last term of government, when the restriction of subjective day care rights failed to allow this to go through the Constitutional Committee, the status of part-time children for all children should have been changed to the same and this 1/13 dimension should not be abandoned, there is nothing on this issue in these presentation texts. Why hasn't this been part of the introduction? I feel like we're stretching the truth. A quarter of the family day care workers' salary is being taken away, and when this was laid down last season, it was wondered how one group of workers could be treated in this way before the Constitution, and for these reasons I would ask you: why have these facts not been brought to light at all? This puts the whole legal project in place, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u6	Madam President! Just as Minister Grahn-Laasonen said, early childhood education, day care is one of our most effective and effective forms of education. Early childhood education is really an important part of the Finnish education system. It will be able to ensure that children’s potential problems can be addressed at an early stage, and the children’s background is known. In view of this, it is incomprehensible that the government is now leaving the labour market position of parents to divide children into different groups. Based on the position of parents in the labour market. At the same time, however, it is not taken into account that working life is changing enormously. There is no more such unambiguous unemployment or employment, but there is a different kind of shredding work, part-time work, daytime work. This is an extremely drastic solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u7	Madam President! This is indeed a solution that affects and targets once again the most low-income people, in other words, in no way justified. The second problem is that although this government has announced that it is trying to reduce red tape in all areas, this solution will increase bureaucracy when it comes to dealing with the background of the parents and with whose child is entitled to full-time care and whose child is not. One more problem from the point of view of the workers: When group sizes are increased and subjective day care rights are changed, the combined effect of these groups may be many decades. Professionals are betting on groups of nearly 40 children. How will quality early childhood education be maintained in groups of this size?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u8	Mr President! Representative Järvinen: I would not see it as red tape if the children’s background was clarified. Think of a child with child protection needs — what better place is it to cooperate with early childhood education and social services and to have the conversation that is best for the child? In some ways, this aspect is completely missing. Now we are talking in a certain way about the obvious cases, but what about the children who may even be in their best interests to go through the situation of the child?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u9	Mr President! I think this is a sad day and this is a terrible government performance. All the different measures that currently target early childhood education constitute a very difficult whole and will have a detrimental effect on the quality of early childhood education. I wanted to ask you what this government proposal is really based on, because all the studies show how high-quality early childhood education supports a child to a long teenage age. It is also the most effective way to support both children and families with children. I would also like to ask whether the government has in any way considered or assessed how this...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u10	Mr President! Today is a black, dark day for children. The best interests of the children have now simply been forgotten. This subjective day care right related to early childhood education is taken from around 10,000 children, according to the Ombudsman for Children. The matter has also been addressed by Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman Sakslin. In his view, putting children in a different position cannot be based solely on economic considerations, since, in the light of the practice of the Constitutional Committee, it is not an acceptable basis for a system of fundamental rights. We have a strange government when things come together and they also get involved with the Constitutional Committee. And now it's the kids.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u11	Let us stick to these 1 minute response times.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u12	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for including an assessment of the impact of children in this proposal. However, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament wishes to draw the attention of lawmakers to the situation of part-time workers, that this should be adequately taken into account in the proposal. Article 11a of the proposal states, inter alia, that the municipality will decide for a specific period of time on the basis of the specific regular periods of early childhood education. We would like to stress that those who work part-time are not always able to decide their own shifts and therefore the need for care. On the basis of the proposal, there is now a risk that part-time workers who have missed part-time work, but whose children do not need care for more than 20 hours a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u13	Mr President! Quality early childhood education belongs to all children in Finland. And second, I would like to ask: The early childhood education plan is being prepared for each child. What does that mean? What does this plan involve?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u14	Mr President! Early childhood education and the right to full-time early childhood education are the right of the child, and the fact that the government is now going to evaluate and limit this child’s right based on what the labour market situation of his or her parents is like is a very special choice of values. We are talking about the fact that pre-school education for 6-year-olds applies to all children, and children with immigrant backgrounds and the children of unemployed parents, for example, are often those who, according to various studies, most need that pedagogical education in early childhood education. And you are restricting the very possibility which also strengthens equality in education. This is not just a matter of day care but of a continuum towards education. And, Mr President, I am really surprised that the National Minister for Education, including Mrs Lauslahti, has now stressed that you believe that this kind of legislation on vibrating is a good dialogue. How can it be a good dialogue that parents, such as temporary workers, have to assess and shame on their changing labour market situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u15	Mr President! As a result of this proposal, educational equality will no longer take place in our Finnish early childhood education. In the future, these part-time children will have to spend their time in groups of up to 39 children, while full-time children will be in these groups of 24 children, which you have also raised. On the other hand, who will determine whether there is any reason for this full-time treatment? In some municipalities, parents are allowed to determine the reason for this. Some municipalities may have a very strict no-line, even if they might find a reason to. Here again, equality is no longer a reality. Few children have the background to child welfare, yet these other reasons may well be found. On the other hand, when these parental situations are constantly changing, the child may become such a throwing bag, which is then constantly thrown from one group to another, depending on the labour market status of the parents. Although you have defined that it is the same daycare centre, the group can change within the day care centre many times, and this is not a safe childhood for any child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u16	Mr President! The most amazing horror scenarios have now been presented regarding the harmfulness of part-time day care or early childhood education to the development of the child. So the criticism is that the time of certain children with their parents increases by about 15 hours a week. Different part-time care solutions are already part of family life. There is no such good model of early childhood education as the state can impose. For example, my family used this very amount of 20 - hour early education for our older child when I was with a younger person at home. Even for 20 hours, I found it very lavish that I was allowed to take company and play in a needy day care center while I was taking care of the baby at home. In the view of both the individual and the centre, the broad provision of day care and early childhood education services to families in different situations is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u17	Mr President! It is clear that, in view of this limitation of subjective day care rights, this is a austerity measure that puts the child's interests at a secondary level and the child is placed in a position where, suddenly, changes in his or her family background or family situation determine his or her rights, his or her daily life and his or her ability to develop, grow and learn. That is something that we should absolutely be concerned about. If we look at today’s day care and how that day was built and where early education has been set, how that day is rhythmized, it is thought of as a whole, and now suddenly we think that we are going to crush it for 20 hours and as if it were just as good. Wouldn't it be a different day care for us then? It is absolutely essential to admit that this is about to be reduced and weakened, and even more so with a model, which makes the child's day considerably more restless, mobile and changing. It can’t be anything other than in some way weakening that early childhood education. Reforms are always welcome, but they must be done responsibly so that we do not undermine anyone's rights and interests, and when they are done well,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u18	Madam President! This decision both to restrict subjective day care rights and to increase group sizes is one of the most absurd decisions that this government makes financially. Investing in early childhood education is one of the most profitable investments we can make in society. According to OECD calculations, the EUR 1 invested in early childhood education brings benefits to society of EUR 7. The cuts proposed by the government for early childhood education, such as the limitation of subjective day care rights and, in particular, this increase in group sizes, are not only absurd, bad decisions for the welfare of the child, but also very bad decisions for the economy. For example, Professor Sixten Korkman of the Department of Economics at Aalto University wrote in Helsingin Sanomat: "This decision has not been taken with a The decision is stupid and comes to society
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u19	Madam President! When it comes to the child’s right, is it not the child’s right to spend more time with his or her own parent? My 9-year-old in third grade has 23 hours a week of school, and why would my 2-year-old need 40 hours a week? In fact, my own husband has taken part-time work so that my 2-year-old does not have to spend 40 hours a week in a day care centre. No research shows that when you have more time spent with your parents in this kind of home care, then it would supposedly weaken your child’s growth and development or later learning path. We are not removing the subjective child care right; we are restricting it so that parents have more time to spend with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u20	Mr President! This government makes a lot of bad decisions, but this is certainly one of the shortest-sighted and most harmful of these surgical decisions. What, then, is the problem with this motion? Well, the first problem is this government decision to raise group sizes, which will reduce the quality of early childhood education for all children and families with children. Another problem with this limitation of subjective day care rights, and in particular with regard to the need-testing process that is being introduced, is which families will, above all, be subject to the restriction. In other words, it should be estimated that the restriction in particular will increase the threshold for applying for full-time care, especially for those families who most need it, and will thus increase the inequalities between families. In my opinion, the sad truth about this bill is that it is not the child's advantage that has passed, but rather the savings that have been made, and, above all, the estimates of savings are based on studies that are more than ten years old and certainly are not true anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u21	Mr President! I believe that what is essential here is that all children will continue to have a subjective right to early childhood education, to 20 hours a week, which will take an international comparison with countries comparable to us. In addition, it is very clear here that the child is also entitled to an early childhood education that exceeds 20 hours, if necessary, due to parental part-time or temporary employment, participation in employment-promoting services, rehabilitation or other similar reasons. In other words, there are grounds for the fact that if people in the labour market are in need of, for example, labour market training to enter the labour market, they are entitled to take the child longer into day care. In other words, this is a very comprehensive idea of what is the responsibility of society and what is the responsibility of the people themselves, while guaranteeing it to all children at least:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u22	Mr President! I myself have been involved in making and creating subjective day care rights for all children. It was an historic situation, and women across party boundaries made this happen. It was a truly historic battle, we are world famous for our day care. It is usually said that don’t change a winning team — it is really interesting that it is now decided for purely economic reasons that children’s rights should be subsidiary. We all know that the strong parents and families who are in different situations will be able to demand more day care and quality day care for their children. But it is precisely those groups that need cooperation in child protection and that need someone to watch that children are also part of a group that, according to today’s psychiatry survey, is the most important thing for the child’s development. Scientists do not support this proposal. I would like the government to reconsider that Parliament listens to researchers and now we think about this for children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u23	Mr President! That is exactly what history was done in the past and today a different kind of history is being made. This is very regrettable and very sad for the government to scrap something that has been so valuable in this society. Here not only scientists, economists, but also people who work with these children in day-care centres, what they say about this, what their opinions are. It's very clear. This thing is wrecking, and two hands can't do more than two hands can. Unfortunately, these will not achieve the results we are told. The calculations are very vague. The link between early childhood education and learning outcomes and coping later has been very clear, and this possibility is equally taken away from children. And the uncertainty of working life must not be brought into any way, in the way in which it is now brought into the lives of children. That uncertainty already exists in the lives of parents, in everyday life, but now it is brought into the lives of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u24	Mr President! In addition to limiting the subjective right to day care, the government has also decided to increase group sizes, and this is particularly affected by so-called different learners. These different learners are thought to be as many as 20 percent of all children. These children need a lot of personal support and guidance. Small group sizes are the best form of support for these different learners and children with psychosocial or neuropsychiatric disorders. It may be that such a child fares excellently in a small group but finds himself in unreasonable situations in a larger group. Raising group sizes is a bad thing, and now that part-time children become more and more, this means that group sizes can grow huge. The attention of children in need of special support is almost impossible. This is likely to increase the risk of exclusion of children enormously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u25	Mr President! I think it is very important that the freedom of choice of families continues to exist. Every child is still guaranteed the right to a day-care centre. Municipalities are also obliged to arrange care either part-time or on certain days full-time, or according to the needs of families and their own decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u26	I will give you three more answers. Then, Minister, and then, of course, we will continue the debate. These three persons are representatives of Karimäki, Pekonen and Adlercreutz. So first of all, Mr Karimäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u27	Madam President! Yes, the welfare society is now crystal fragile and crumbling in the hands of the government. You are the one who deprives the family of freedom of choice in order to give children full-time care. You build a children's class society, you take away the children of the unemployed and the children of families caring for a small baby from full-time care. All the experts have suspended this performance. Experts were consulted in the women's network in the Parliament, including children's psychiatrist Jukka Mäkelä, who stressed the importance of being part of the group, not being part of a group in the middle of the day and leaving the group. It'll add to the distractions. It'll add to the bullying. It adds to the fact that a child is not included in the group. On the other hand, you have not assessed day care for the sake of child protection, the strong arguments why it is precisely for the sake of child protection that full-time care should be automatically possible in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u28	Mr President! The most convincing evidence of the power of the women's network in the Parliament has been the creation of a subjective day care right in 1995. I'm ashamed to be here in this Parliament. I am ashamed on behalf of the women's network that we are now burying this subjective day care right in 2015. Yes, I must say to Mrs Katainen that this is not a question of freedom of choice. You are, in fact, restricting the choice of freedom, the right of families to choose services. I would have asked the Minister when you spoke in your opening speech about the development of pedagogy in early childhood education. How do you see that pedagogy can be developed by increasing group sizes and cutting?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u29	At this point, Mr Adlercreutz, the last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u30	Värderade fru talman! Standards should be dismantled, bureaucracy reduced and working life made more flexible. But what is the government doing? For each decision, the government should ask itself and preferably a few experts, if that is not too much to ask, at least these things: Does this save money? Is it cutting red tape? Does this reduce social inequality? Is the best interests of the children a priority? Does that increase equality? Will it make the labour market more flexible? Does it maintain healthy competition between the private and public sectors? Unfortunately, the answer to all these questions is 'no'. Create a need-tested, bureaucratic system, increase rigidity in the labour market, make it more difficult for women to work and put children's interests in the background. In addition, private day care centres are put in a difficult position. At the same time, day - care homes are forced into a situation where they have to keep empty spaces in case the family situation changes. There is no point in making such changes, especially since the savings calculated by the previous government are minimal or non-existent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u31	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u32	Madam President! I understand very well that these government proposals also raise critical speeches, and no one here in Parliament is happy to present these savings laws. But I would like to say that I find these speeches, which scare families of the collapse of the quality of early childhood education or of the fact that there are many groups of people with many heads, while, today, for example, I visited the National Board of Education, preparing the criteria for early childhood education, which are specifically aimed at qualitatively strengthening our early childhood education even in this difficult situation. At the same time, next year we will launch a programme for the development of early childhood education, for which we will have EUR 7 million available to raise the level of competence of staff. It is what they themselves have hoped for, that they would receive further education, and that we could increase the share of university-educated kindergarten teachers in that early education and thus bring new pedagogical thinking into the everyday life of kindergartens. Anyone who has recently had a child in early childhood education knows that families and day care staff are in constant contact with each other when considering what is best for that child when and how family situations change. Everyone knows that even today, there are different situations in the day care centre for different children: some make shorter, some make longer days in the day care centre, some are only for some days. So this is already a normal part of the day care system's everyday life. Of course, it would be desirable to have the opportunity to develop this work in the day-care centre on a long-term basis, and I think that this will be best achieved in the future by further strengthening the communication and relations between families and the staff of the day-care centre. In fact, it is now confirmed by the fact that these early childhood education plans came into the law for each child. I think they are a good tool for the normal and natural conversation between the staff and families of the day care centre, which is in the best interests of the child. Well, then we asked about these savings. According to estimates, the change in the right to early childhood education will generate savings of EUR 62 million and this change in the ratio will result in savings of EUR 67 million. These savings have been calculated in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Finance as official work. Of course, we, as politicians and legislators, rely on the calculations made with official responsibility. What is true, of course, is that these laws allow municipalities to apply for these savings in their own activities and, of course, the municipalities themselves decide that if there are municipalities that consider that they want to maintain this better level of service, it is quite possible. This can be done, and I know that so many municipalities have already planned to do so. You asked about the constitutionality of this legislation. As always in good legislation, even at this stage of preparation, it has been evaluated, but ultimately the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will of course assess whether these changes can be taken forward. Then I would like to point out that when there are concerns about children and family situations at risk of exclusion, I think it is very important that this law includes a record that when it is in the best interests of the child, in terms of the growth and development of the child;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u35	Mr President! Minister, you yourself said in your speech that day-care centres are having these discussions with staff and with families about what would be the best way forward. The experts and professionals also seem to be very strongly of the opinion that it is precisely this way of approaching this issue, based on debate and agreement, that is the best possible approach, and not that this punitive element is involved, that the head of the day care centre or the day care staff can then say that it is not for you now to have full-time care, that we are ordering that your child be given only 20 hours. It prevents its natural nature from having a confidential discussion and between staff and children. I would like to ask you, Minister: are you not at all concerned that families are going to have to open up and tell all their problems and bring them here?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u36	Mr President! I would like to remind you that, overall, parents are primarily responsible for early childhood education, and I think this should be remembered. And then, as another rule, I would also like to remind you that childhood is a very short period of time. Other children want to go to day care and these common facilities, but there are also those who want to be at home, and that too must be remembered. But it is also good that this early childhood education has been developed, that everyone has a chance of 20 hours a week. I am at least surprised — whether I represent the opposition or the government — that if both parents are at home, those children will be taken to early childhood care. I wonder what the role of parents in today's education is. And despite the limitation, there is still a need-tested possibility of full-time care, the bill highlights the hearing of the family in decision-making. That I think in this bill
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u37	Mr President! Home care and child day care should not be contrasted; both are in place, but this is a question of what the government intends to do about subjective rights to full-time day care. And it is sad to say that the government is certainly destroying children's subjective right to full-time day care, making the historic achievement of the previous difficult recession years in this country, shredding and weakening the quality of early childhood education by increasing group sizes. This all goes against the rights of children, it goes against the objectives of equality, it increases bureaucracy in municipalities, and it also undermines economic growth and the reconciliation of work and family. This doesn't make any sense. Nor does it make sense for these so-called economic objectives either, because the savings available are absolutely non-existent in relation to the loss and loss that this so-called reform will bring. And what do you say, Minister, that the municipalities are not taking up this bill of yours? For example, the City of Helsinki has decided not to limit the right to day care, not to increase group sizes. This has been decided yesterday by Hämeenlinna, among others, and the initiative has been launched in the City of Oulu.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u38	Madam Speaker! I'm looking at a study by TNS Gallup dated 3. Adopted by the Commission It asks the Finnish people how they feel about limiting subjective day care rights if one of the parents is at home. It asks whether it is because of unemployment, or because one of the children is at home. 80% of the Finnish people support this; they are opposed by 14%. I personally do not see this as so dramatic as what has been said in this Chamber. However, we are entitled to that 20 hours — which is a really great thing — from now on too. The need for childcare is already being assessed on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u39	Madam President! No expert is in favour of restricting the right to day care by law. And why not? Since it is the right of the child, it is the right of the child. The right of every child to day care is important from the point of view of prevention of exclusion and prevention of nausea. When this law is put into effect, then the exhausted parent must understand for himself to seek help when he or she watches the night with the baby, a parent who, for example, has an undiagnosed mental disorder should understand to seek help before he or she harms the child or a parent who has a substance abuse problem that he or she is hiding should, however, realize that he/she is doing wrong when treating the baby as a substance abuse problem. You expect him to go to the head of day care and report that I have a substance abuse problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u40	Madam President! When the idea of limiting subjective day care was first raised a couple of years ago, I went through an international study quite extensively, interviewed a large number of Finnish experts and wrote a report on the effects of the restriction, which I would warmly recommend to the Minister, who clearly has not read it. On the basis of that report, I am quite sure I will say that this reform is not about savings. This is not a question because if we take account of the increasing cost of child protection and of the increasing cost of bureaucracy, there will be no savings. This is a purely ideological project because some politicians, for some reason, are absolutely terribly annoyed that ordinary Finnish families also have freedom of choice, and because some Finnish politicians are suspicious that ordinary Finnish parents would understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u41	Madam President! Of course, the primary responsibility for raising a child is there at home, and I do not believe that this debate is about to begin to value home care against day care. But you will also understand, Minister, that there is justifiable concern here about the quality of early childhood education for those children whose parents have chosen that early childhood education, because when the size of the groups of children increases, when the child care measure has been raised, at the same time the number of these part-time children in that care is increasing as this subjective right is being restricted, and this synergy is what causes concern. In what way can those groups prevent these groups of children from becoming recklessly large? Experts have said that they can be up to 30 children in the same group. And we're talking about half the kids, but when that part-time kid's on the scene, he's an unusually whole kid, and he's definitely going to take his part in those care measures. In that sense, we hope that attention will be paid to the way in which the groups of children are represented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u42	Madam President! This is certainly not an easy matter, but this debate here is still quite an exaggeration and dramatisation. This gives the impression that this is really about to end subjective day care, and that is not what this is all about. Subjective day care law continues, but it is limited. Furthermore, each child is entitled to 20 hours of early childhood education per week, and this proposal clearly states the reasons for the child’s entitlement to full-time day care. It has been suggested here that families and children would somehow fall under a magnifying glass, as it were, to be gawked. It's like putting a note on the kids.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u45	Mr President! It does not make it hard to admit that this and all other government savings decisions on early childhood education are exceptionally difficult. That is why I would like to stress and thank the Minister for Education and the Ministry for Education that the difficult issue has now been carefully prepared and that many of the problems that have been raised in public regarding the everyday life of the day care centre and the work of the professionals in the day care centre have been best taken into account. We must emphasise and underline, as many others here have tried to remind the opposition in the midst of justifiable concerns: there is still 20 hours of justice per week. And I would like us to go even further and perhaps the Minister would open up how much more we could invest in the service guidance that families receive when they end up in day care to get a child to think about and stop there: what are the needs of the family right now? I would also like to stress, Mr President, that, in this situation, I inevitably have to be credited to the staff of day-care centres and the decision-makers of the municipality, to see how this law is implemented in practice in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u46	Madam President! Yes, quite confused, I am following this conversation as a former day nurse and a family day nurse. I would like to ask where are the representatives of the provinces on the government side at the moment, for life in a small municipality is different from perhaps Helsinki. In a small municipality there can be only one day care centre with part-time and full-time residents in the same group. There the nurseship is done according to the heads of all those children, not as to how many hours they spend there. So there's no saving when you cut in the name of saving. Only children's right to early childhood education or day care will be cut. At the same time, you brand families, because we in a small municipality know who lives next door. If only two unemployed people live next door, it does not have to be a great giant of reason to think that there is a problem with that family when the child is in full - time care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u47	Mr President! The opposition is spreading fear again, this time among the parents. The last time, pensioners were intimidated that they would be deprived of care, and when workers would be intimidated that their rights would be unduly torn. This government proposal was not a problem for the opposition during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u48	Madam President! That speech was, of course, something that still puzzles me and I almost forget my line here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u49	Mr President! I must say that I am surprised by the logic of this representative Nikon, Now, unfortunately, the government is making a mistake when it brings such a proposal to Parliament. This is now destroying the good system we have had in Finland, and bureaucracy is bound to increase. In other words, we will bring back to the Finnish system the need-tested process that we have once got rid of. And now again we are increasing the bureaucratic burden on municipal and municipal workers. That's not a good solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u50	Mr President! It is quite a nonsense from Mr Niiko to say that this now strengthens the child's right to early education. This sounds like some time ago when we were talking about education: cut 3 billion and say hey, we are developing. Is this one of those "hey, we're developing" laws again? Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you claim that bureaucracy will not increase. The fact is, it's getting bigger. You can't talk this black into white. At the moment, the municipalities are specifically prepared for the way in which this bureaucracy required by the law is handled there. In fact, Mr Satonen has just said this, admitted in his speech that he told and listed all the exceptions which are now being taken into account and always assessed on a case-by-case basis. In addition, this will be particularly relevant when, in principle, everyone is limited to 93 families out of 100 who are entitled to full-time care. We have to make a decision for them, too, that it is. They're getting that red tape, too. As far as these costs are concerned, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that savings will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u51	Madam President! In this proposal, I find it particularly problematic to increase the size of groups, when even at the moment the groups of children are quite large, often restless, but I do understand the reasons for restricting the right to day care, given that the right to day care is still being maintained for 20 hours. When resources are scarce, I also believe that the opposition must understand that the stakes must be directed at the children and the families that are most vulnerable, and that there are major shortcomings in the protection of children at the moment. If parents are at home, do not work and study, and there is no special social or health restriction on caring for a child, why should society guarantee full - time day care for each child? This raises the question of who has the primary responsibility for small children,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u52	Mr President! It should not be denied that there is a savings law, and the fact is that there are unfair elements in this, but at the same time it must be said that we will continue to have an internationally high level of early childhood education. We have high-quality high-skilled staff who do their job well. The pain we have is precisely that there should be a deeper appreciation of the staff, an appreciation of early childhood education. Multi-professional cooperation should be stepped up and all these human dimensions deepened, which would then offset these differences in starting points. These are very problematic. However, I would like to say that yesterday, at the City Council meeting in Kuopio, the Greens were in favour of limiting the subjective right to day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u53	Madam President! The world is so different from five or ten years ago. It'll be a whole different world in five years. When you look at the objectives of this government that this country should be open 7/24, which means that we have more and more of the burden of parenting to become part of the fact that children are in a special position and that their early childhood education is becoming more challenging, it is strange that this people and the government, who have become more interested in knowledge, want us to rely on the fact that we are still top class in international comparisons. Why do we not want to be the best in the world in terms of the path of knowledge, which, through early childhood education, gives us the basis for participating and adopting more and more future learning through education and basic education? That makes no sense — when experts beat this up,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u54	Mr President! The Minister said that it is not nice to move such savings laws forward. You do not need to, Minister. This is a law that does not bring savings, but it does destroy something very fundamental in our society. Here the government parties say that stigmatisation and intimidation are practiced here from the opposition. Does OAJ also engage in stigmatisation and intimidation, which says: "The proposal to restrict subjective day care and early childhood education to 20 weeks does not contribute to the objectives of education, labour, family and child policy or effective early childhood education and contradicts the Government's objectives of child and family policy. The draft proposal will lead to a significant deterioration in services and quality by raising the group sizes of day-care centres, reducing the number of staff and unfairly restricting the child's right to early education." At least listen to the OAJ, which is
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u55	Mr President! There are certainly many contradictions in this law, but I would like to ask the opposition, which expert you are appealing to, who, according to the expert, is also in the best interests of the child, that he is in day care for up to 8 and 10 hours even when the other parent is either on parental leave or on child care leave. There are good examples of this 9-hour club activity in Oulu, even examples such as that the number of hours spent in high-quality day care is higher in the 9 hours a week than in this 20 hour period, when there will be no transitions of any kind, but the child will receive 9 hours a week high-quality early childhood education activities. I would ask the Minister if you have heard of the example of Oulu and whether you are interested in taking it as one of these experiments. City of Oulu
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u56	Madam President! [9 seconds break in sound recording] But what is particularly worrying to me is that, especially in the ranks of the Assembly, this issue is being put forward in such a way that it is even in the best interests of the child; these cuts would be an issue for the protection of children, while the child protection organisations have quite unequivocally rejected this proposal. The Finnish Psychological Association even says that these surgeries, which you are now doing, will be paid for as increased costs of child psychiatry and child welfare. In my opinion, these are rather alarming statements, and I find it very extraordinary that they are not being listened to in the ranks of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u57	Madam President! The government has turned its hands to the past: the subjective day care right is restricted, group sizes are increased, children’s safety is shaken and staff pressure is increasing. Quality early childhood education prevents exclusion and reduces inequality and inequality between children. OKM conducted a survey and research on early childhood education. Most of it was welcomed, but the parents were concerned about the same things as the decision-makers: there was concern about the size of the group and the number of staff. And what is most worrying is that this issue does not even seem to be of interest to the government: there are three representatives here from the assembly and three from the centre. But I ask you, Minister: should children not be specifically protected rather than abused?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u58	Madam President! I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for their constructive comments. It is seen here that opposition policy can also be done in style and in construction. It could do something about it. Even Prime Minister Sipilä could be an example of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u61	Mr President! In this government proposal, the state saves, but society does not save. I am concerned at the fact that the emphasis here is on the freedom of choice and responsibility of municipalities, which is of course a good thing, but at the same time we are promoting the creation of two-storey municipalities, because only some municipalities are able to meet this challenge, which the government is doing by removing state shares and obliging municipalities to secure day care themselves. Okay, Helsinki and Valkeakoski and some individual municipalities have been able to handle this now, but Kuopio apparently did not. This is not in the best interests of children that such a new division should arise in Finland. On the contrary, I would ask the government and the Minister: have you thought that the drastic reaction which has come to this motion from many large cities and municipalities, including from the municipal politicians of the government parties, could indicate that these savings are not believed? Finally, I would like to say that I understand the Minister's goodwill in this matter, but this decision seems to be based on attitude and mutuality and such a policy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u62	Madam President! Mr Heikkinen, you said that there is an expert here, you can tear anything out of the box to defend it. I was on the Civilization Committee last season for four years, and yes, all that time I trusted the experts and read their statements. This subjective day care issue was also discussed during the last period, so there were very many expert consultations and expert opinions. I did not come across any statements, not one expert opinion that said that by restricting the right to day care, by increasing group sizes, we are improving the quality of early childhood education and that we are promoting the right of children. If you have such an expert offer, I would be happy to read this study. Minister, I need your help now. I'm a municipal decision-maker in Helsinki. When we went through this matter in Helsinki, we came to the conclusion that this makes no sense or does not promote children’s rights and this will not bring any savings. On the contrary, we saw that this could even cost us more in administrative expenditure. How can I now, Minister, as a municipal decision-maker, ensure that you plead that there is so much discretion in this proposal that it can guarantee every child the amount he needs, right? How can I, as the decision-maker of the municipality, guarantee that at the nursery place, when the performance requires him to return to the same place,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u63	Mr President! The Minister spoke beautifully about the quality of early childhood education. At the same time, he said that this is a savings law, and those savings are based, for example, on the full introduction of these groups and on the full exploitation of the limitations of subjective law. But how can we talk about the quality of early childhood education if, from group size one to seven — that is, one adult, seven children, when there can be more of these groups in the same group — we move from one to thirteen? Let's talk about 40 kids in a part-time group. Well, it turns out it's more of a friend's birthday that can be fun but you just can't do it every day. Another concern related to this limitation of subjective right: It has been studied who are those parents whose children are in full - time care even though one of their parents is at home. There are cases of child protection, there is special parenting, there is immigrant parenting, there is unemployment among immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u64	Madam President! When, after more than 100 years of trying, subjective day care rights were finally created in the 1990s, one strong reason for this was not to want the assessment of social causes to be marked by children and families. Now they want it back? As far as savings are concerned: Day care is probably one of the main reasons why, in contrast to all other age groups of children and young people in the last decade, the number of child protection cases among 0- to 6-year-olds, i.e. those of just day-care age, has not increased. Day care is a relatively affordable form of support for children and families and provides significant savings in a preventive way. The average cost of full-time care for the year is EUR 12500, but the annual price of institutional care for child welfare is approximately EUR 104000. There's a big difference. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u65	Mr President! I have been thinking here that which of the MPs would hear the child would take into account the child’s point of view on this issue. Now, to a few of you who are here, I would like to make an appeal and ask: if the majority of experts believe that this undermines the best interests of the child, are you prepared to hear and take note of it if it is the case that the majority of experts think so? Then I would like the Minister to stop saying that there is no need for heavy bureaucracy, for every decision, according to the administrative law, must be made for every family and according to good administration every decision must also be justified. It is a major administrative process, it is not to be underestimated. I would also like you to think about this stigma, because we know that this stamp is not just those years in the day-care centre, but that stamp goes with this child when he goes to school when he moves in that community. Please note:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u66	Madam President! Yes, it has been sad to listen to this debate. The representatives of the government parties in particular have made quite a few frogs out of their mouths. For example, Mr Niikko, you say that a home is the best place for a child, but at the same time you are with other government parties to cut holidays in the public sector, for example. Isn't that stealing from a child's right in the time of his parents? You're not worried about that at all. This has indeed been a historic achievement in Finnish politics, that a subjective right has been acquired specifically for the child in early childhood education. Now somehow this has become the right of the parents, which it has never been. It's a child's right. And keep that in mind when you take this law forward, This is not going to be a saving, this is pure ideology and this is really terrible to hear from you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u67	Madam President! After hearing this debate, one must be amazed at the opposition’s perspective on these world affairs. I dare say from my own experience and also as a happy grandparents that a mother and father are the best rights of a child under all circumstances — and it can be supplemented with different systems. Mr Satonen has made a good speech here, he has explained that this social aspect of this legislation has still existed, it has not gone anywhere. Yes, a father and a mother and a family are the child’s support and security in this cold world. If you think you can find it somewhere else, I'm a little surprised at your motivations. Yes, the family circle is the one that gives the child security, and then there are grandparents and others around it and the school and also the kindergarten — that right still exists, it’s not going anywhere, but you’re going to dig up bogeymen here that don’t exist. A simple fact about this is that the care of a parent is the most important thing in this world for that child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u68	Mr President! In my opinion, it has become quite clear here that this is a savings law and savings are always made on ideological grounds. This has been a choice from the government. You have chosen that early childhood education be attacked by both of these: one was in the decree, and the other was this law. But I find it quite amazing that the representatives of the government parties here say 'no, bring this law', but then, as it were, it is hoped that the municipalities will use sound common sense, do not adopt this. It's not like this. Mr President! I would like to hear from the Minister about this practical situation. How have you pointed this out in this government proposal that there will be full-time children in the same group, part-time children and then children who are just a few days a week there? And do not argue that the current situation is already that way, because this
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u69	Mr President! First of all, every child will continue to have a subjective right to early childhood education — this is an important issue — and that minimum is set at a higher level than in many other neighbouring countries. I share the concern that this is, as it were, saving both ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u70	Madam President! First of all, Mr Sarkomaa: in Sweden, every child and family is entitled to 15 free early childhood education hours, after which the family pays as much as it sees necessary to spend hours when in Finland we pay a normal early childhood education fee. Yes, it must also be said that where is the centre that last season demanded that every family should have the right to decide on the early education of their own children or on the situation in the life of a family or child. And then it has been said here, including Mr Saarikko, that it is good that this law has been very well prepared. It must be regretted that this is unfortunately not the case, because the impact assessment of the proposal has been carried out almost 11 years ago and has been the basis for this legislative preparation. You also said, Minister, that the experts have been involved in this, but unfortunately all the experts we have heard in committee or otherwise have said that this legislation does not implement the right of the child, which is why I ask you: what are the grounds for your argument?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u71	Mr President! As long as I can remember, the Minister of Finance has proposed every year to save on early childhood education for children, and subjective day care law has been one of those things that it was felt was too much: that women achieved too much in Parliament. In fact, it is quite interesting that we are talking here about parents as if there is no gender issue here. Women do much more part-time work, work on fixed-term contracts, so it is also very much a question of how this affects women's lives and the opportunity to participate in the labour market. And what does that mean, then, for children who have to go back and forth to do things with fixed periods? Clearly, for mothers of small children, this gender distribution is very different. I do feel very sorry for Mr Grahn-Laaso, who alone has to represent the three members of the government who have taken this brutal decision. I believe that savings are understood, but they are priorities. They have always been — also 95, when fought, it was very hard to resist. And the women together did it: it was thought that this was a matter of which Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u72	Madam President! I wonder what parents who are currently taking care of their children are unemployed and little educated are thinking when they listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, who are absolutely horrifying at the mismanagement of these unemployed. As a mother, I also feel that I am an expert in this area. More on that side of the day care centers, the staff are concerned if the child has to stay in the day care centre for a long day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u73	I will give you a few more replies, after which the Minister will reply, and then we will go to the list of speakers for at least a while. These persons are representatives of Niikko, Heikkinen, Krista Kiuru, Karimäki, Uotila and Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u74	Mr President! Now, listen to me, opposition, carefully. It is not the day care system originally created for the unemployed and the parents at home, but for the parents who have access to work. Now, Mr Kiljunen, you mentioned that the good thing about this government proposal is that up to 15 hours each child and family will receive free early childhood education, so this is an advantage for those people on low incomes and middle incomes who receive this. — — — — Yeah, but this is free of charge for them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u75	Let's take Mr. Rinne in here, because he was there so as a throttle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u76	Mr President! Yes, this is purely a matter of value choice. Here we go to cut the benefits of children in families who need social support. Not all families have a situation where adults are able to take care of the children’s affairs, and for this, early childhood education is needed, which provides a future opportunity, a similar starting point for all children. This is an issue of indivisible human dignity, the right of children to have the same valuable starting point for their own lives in all situations, in all families.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u77	Madam President! If the opposition were not so loud at the moment, you could hear what Mr Heikkinen said in his previous speech. I did not claim that these experts did not state, on the basis of the facts, why this is not the case at the moment. But what I was trying to say over your noise is that the experts for each operation will be found to justify why it is not allowed to be operated on, quite definitely. And right...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u78	Congressman Arhinmäki had a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u79	Madam President! It's a short question. There's an expert who can resist anything, but now I'd like to ask the minister: Are there any experts in early childhood education and day care who think this is a good solution? And could you, Minister, now tell us the experts who have recommended, on the basis of their expertise, such a solution that you are now making?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u80	Mr President! I think the most important thing right now is to put the facts on the table. That is why we came here in the referral debate to assess whether there is enough impact assessment here, enough information on the table. I, Minister, genuinely asked you just now whether you are sparing the truth. I think that is a rather fundamental question. Why is it not stated here that last season this kind of proposal never came to Parliament precisely because it became clear in expert reports that this was not going to be a saving? Firstly, the unemployed could not be included in this, because there is already a constitutional precedent, which means that more than half of this savings will be lost. Then this other side of the savings will fall because the fact is that children cannot be treated in such a way that there are 24 children in one group of children and 39 in the other. We carried out an evaluation in the largest municipalities, in almost 30 municipalities, and it became clear that this would be the case in practice. And from this point of view, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have to assess whether it is possible to treat children differently. Finally, the Constitution also guarantees that no professional group will be able to leave the fourth salary, and in this respect to family day care workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u81	Madam President! High-quality early childhood education supports and supports the child, this performance is against the best interests of the child. Representatives of the government parties have not been able to justify the motion except with their mud feelings and family experiences. In addition to this proposal, there are many challenges to be faced by future needs testing, such as the fact that every family will henceforth have to justify the need for full-time care. It increases bureaucracy and, on the other hand, it stigmatises and stigmatises those families who individually have to apply for full-time care. And thirdly, on average, Finland has 30 hours of part-time work per week, so 20 hours of day care is not enough to cover the needs of working life. The proposal is therefore not in line with today's fragmented working life and is certainly not in the best interests of the child. My question to the Minister is: how are impact assessments carried out on this bureaucracy and costs? They must have been made because they multiply so much.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u82	Two more replies, Mr Uotila and Mr Östman, then Minister. — Mr Uotila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u83	Madam President! It is really about the right of the child to quality early childhood education and day care. But it's also about the economy. This house has a public financeplan — expert opinions are still not public,because the report has not been left-out — a clear message: all major errors in the government are that it needs to beone of Finland’s most important supporting feet, which has expertise and training and research. High-quality early childhood education is the most important part, the most long-acting part, of this whole. And, as has been said here, the OECD has, among other things, estimated that every euro that is put into high-quality early childhood education will return seven times as much to society. What kind of arithmetic is used by the government if there is no sevenfold return on an important issue that at the same time serves children’s rights? Why cut and cause incalculable damage to the long future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u84	Madam President! I was delighted that Prime Minister Heikkinen thanked the KD Parliamentary Group for its constructive work. It is a good thing that it has been noted, and I was in some way hearing that this issue will be taken into account when the alternative budgets of the opposition parties are discussed — that we are waiting for some kind of reward. "However, according to the proposed law,early education should be organised at the current level of the This is what is written in this bill, so that in that sense I am surprised at this hard debate. But I would like to ask the Minister: how will this assessment be made, how will we look at the needs of the child?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u85	And then the Minister replies — five minutes at the most, please — and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u86	Madam President! I thank you for this debate and for the lunch, and now, of course, after that, the committees will be able to get to work in Parliament and then the matter will proceed to this Chamber later. However, I would like to remind you of the big picture, namely the fact that we cannot afford all the services provided in good times with the current economic development and demographic change. This government will have to make major savings decisions due to this difficult economic situation and to our gloomy prospects in Finland. We agreed on cuts of EUR 4 billion in government negotiations, of which this is one part, and I think it is unreasonable to say that we would have to punish families with children here today, because in other days we have to talk about working life reforms for those who are working, pensioners' housing aid, students, unemployed people, families with children, practically everything. In other words, we are in a situation in Finland where we have to look everywhere for savings, and this is a very unfortunate situation, but I hope it will be understood. I know that no one here would be happy to deal with these savings laws, but we have to look to the future and we have to do the necessary things to make Finland's economy a better career than in Greece. Of these savings, when asked what these figures are based on: I would like to reiterate that the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Culture, under the responsibility of experts, are based on these economic figures and these estimates in the background. Similarly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, of course, the responsibility to look at these constitutional aspects even before adopting this law. Similarly, on this issue of bureaucracy, when it has been raised here, I felt that it was particularly important in this drafting of the law to ensure that no complex administrative, bureaucratic system was built, but that this definition of the right to early childhood education was based on family announcements and normal communication between families and early childhood education staff. In the old days, there was perhaps a great deal of talk about kindergartens and day care, and so on, and so on. It was then that we talked and left the corner of parents ’ incomes and their needs, and we thought, ‘ What are the children doing while parents are at work and so on? ’ Today, however, this perspective is completely different, and it is precisely in all the development of early childhood education that we are starting from the child’s income angle and the child’s starting point, and for the first time in the work we are working on the basis of early childhood education and the continuation where early childhood education is part of our education system. This qualitative leap, which I believe in, will enable us not only to make use of these criteria for early childhood education, but also to raise the level of competence of the staff, and I am pleased that the government has decided to increase the number of university-educated kindergarten teachers from next year. I hope that this intimidation of families about this quality of early childhood education will stop. It is unreasonable: Finnish early childhood education is of high quality, and early childhood education professionals are committed, good, child-loving people who do it with full, full professionalism. Let us give them that recognition of the work and trust that, even in a difficult situation, they will be able to secure the good growth of that child and good, high-quality early childhood education there, together with the families, of course. Even before I conclude that there is no false impression, underlining: the right to early childhood education will not go away, the subjective right that has been acclaimed and praised in this Chamber will not go away. In other words, each child will be entitled to 20 hours of higher quality early childhood education, which is five hours more than in Sweden. In international comparisons, this early childhood education system of ours will also stand up to all comparisons after these unfortunate cuts, and we can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to start by thanking the Minister for being here. I think it is an important signal that you want to hear what Parliament has to say. And since we were both involved in this work last season, in the debate on the limitation of subjective day care rights, it is only fair that you are here now also raising the points of view why it was decided to bring this proposal to Parliament, when it was decided in the last parliamentary term that this proposal would not be submitted. Despite the fact that the assembly would have liked to make this presentation, these savings that had been counted as taking place proved to be a genuine failure to make savings. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I should tell you a little bit about what happened last season and why this proposal to limit the subjective right to day care should not be regulated. Mr President! Education, freedom of choice, they are quite big values, just like human dignity, and it is often used to measure the kind of ideology that everyone is in favour of when they defy these values. This limitation of the subjective right to day care is, in particular, about the fact that education, freedom of choice or undivided dignity does not have the same value as before. According to the OECD studies, Finland has succeeded in particular by placing the emphasis on our early childhood education that every child has had equal and equal access to early childhood education. During the 1990s, even during the recession, we had enough money for this. Mr President! Since time is running, I will immediately look at this savings effect. First of all, this proposal will be more expensive than the savings that are now being made in this bill. That is why it is important for everyone to focus on what is why it is important to go over these savings once again. If we are now pursuing this savings package of some 60 million, we could not include the unemployed and their children during the last term of government because the Constitution is familiar with one precedent in which a similar labour market situation has been assessed in relation to benefits and it has been established that the unemployed person must be at home and on various workplaces and on job-seeking trips every day, when his job is not to seek and care for the child at home, but that the child is in day care and the unemployed are looking for work. This precedent led to the fact that this limitation of the subjective right to day care for unemployed children could not be included in this last period proposal. Now, Minister, you are not talking about this, and I think it would be fair for you to tell us in front of Parliament that this was indeed the case. This constitutional fact has not been circumvented today that this is the case. Another major problem in the last period was the one from which all the government parties came to a unanimous position that it cannot be possible. In constitutional terms, the problem is that our law today makes it possible to regulate the size of the 1/13 group, which means that part-time children are in larger groups. However, since this regulation has not been put into practice for part-time children and a separate survey of it proved that there were only a few language groups in the whole kingdom that had so scaled the status of part-time children, and since this law had remained a dead letter, the Constitutional Committee is now forced to judge that it cannot. When the current situation is that part-time children are in groups the same size as full-time children in this situation, this change is imminent. In practice — what Mr Sarkomaa has just said, who asked the government, as a member of the government party, to consider whether this dimension should be changed — it will therefore cost EUR 30 million, which means that EUR 10 million will be frozen. In other words, this ideological choice from this point may result in savings from a minus sign. So we will have to pay for this to be saved. This dimension needs to be changed. And now on the third: It seems very unfair, as the Constitution states, that one professional group can be required to have a new bill that makes one’s level of earnings significantly weaker. Isn't that a pretty big downside if we're talking about a pay cut for several thousand family day care workers, which is a quarter? I think these are rather big questions that have not been evaluated at all here. Therefore, sparingly, we should not talk about the truth. Mr President! I have a few more things to say. I wonder why we had to change the fact that we have part-time children, which means that today 5 hours a day is part-time children, and now the government has decided that it is 4 hours. Last season it was said that it is 5 hours just to make sure that every child could have an appropriate period of time in that day-care centre then, as it were, to be that part-day child. For this reason, I wonder whether warm food will be offered to these children in all Finnish municipalities if it is not specifically mentioned. And for this reason, the last five hours were set daily enough for this part - time child to ensure that warm food is also provided. It has now been concluded that a child can be these right in the beginning of the week and, for example, many pedagogical events will not be attended when many days are without early childhood education altogether. It is, of course, a pretty big perspective when we are talking about a right that is, today, pedagogical early childhood education. I think it would be fair for us to know why this right to early childhood education would no longer be 25 hours, but 20 hours. And do not appeal to the Swedish model, because Sweden has free this share of early childhood education, which is limited in this way. Mr President! It should also be noted that this bureaucracy, which has been passed on to this reverse of the law, is going to lead to it, as the government itself estimates that in reality about 10% of children would be subjective to the restriction of this subjective right of day care, and even almost 4% of it would be these children — according to an estimate made in the '90s — who would have a special cause, which would make it possible to have the subjective right of day care as a whole. Now that these figures are so old, the reality is probably different, so more and more children would be in this area anyway. There will be a huge bureaucratic project that will pay even more once these effects have been misjudged when the data are so outdated. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to say that, given that these costs have now been assessed and said that this is a savings law: if this is a savings law, then I think it is fair to say that this is exactly how much savings will be made. But when those savings do not come and they have been detailed over the last period, it would be fair for them to be available to Parliament as well. And when there is no savings, the central question arises — especially since the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the National Board of Education have both stated that there will be no savings, good when there is half of these savings — why should this be taken through if there is no savings and this does not correct the Finnish economy? In this regard, the key question is whether we do not take seriously the major change that was made: the 41-year-old day care law became the law of early childhood education, the greatest pearl of which was that every child was entitled to early childhood education. It is no longer the right of parents to day care for their child; it is the right of the child to early education. Why do we want to limit this child’s right to early childhood education, as soon as the eye avoids it? If every other poor family of children is in a situation where the parents or even both parents are at home — think, therefore, in poor families with children only one person is employed — then we are giving poor children a really big gap about how to label themselves, how to show themselves, how segregating, how to grow up in these very families. It was an incredible change of direction in the '90s, when even in the recession of the '90s, every child from the point of view of educational equality was on the same track, no matter where his parents were in the labour market. And this is also stated by the government’s own proposal. I find it hard that the explanatory statement of the government's own proposal says that there are problems from the point of view of educational equality and the constitution. It is noted that children are placed in unequal positions depending on the situation in the life of this family. When I saw the government itself in its own presentation, it is frightening. Why was there no further opening of these constitutional aspects? Why were these studies, which were carried out, not submitted for further examination? And why were these experts not listened to any more? That is why, Mr President, I am tired of believing that it is a question of savings, but that it is an ideological choice that is justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u88	Mr President! As has been said earlier, we have a lot of bad surgical decisions in the course of this autumn. However, this is likely to be the most shortsighted and harmful of all. I am afraid that it is the limits and cuts to early childhood education that will be the first to find that a very big mistake has been made. As Professor of Economics Sixten Korkman said at the beginning of October, this is simply a stupid decision. By limiting the subjective right to day-care to half-day for children whose parents are unemployed or on child-care leave, this limitation will target a large number of children who would benefit most from early childhood education. Families with an immigrant background are a good example. It is indeed contradictory to talk about promoting integration and language skills if, at the same time, decisions are taken that are totally incompatible with these objectives. It is also contradictory to talk about promoting employment if, at the same time, policies are adopted which may well make it difficult for many parents to seek employment. I find it sad that there is a government in the country that bases legislation on outdated prejudices, such as the daily lives of the unemployed and the use of time. In addition, a proposal to allow full-time care, if necessary because of the development of the child, the need for support or the circumstances of the family, or otherwise it is in the best interests of the child, to differentiate families and to create characteristic features of early childhood education that have otherwise been removed from low-threshold services for families. In the future, therefore, certain families must individually apply and justify the need for full-time care. This task would probably vary from region to region, which will increase inequality and very likely also increase the threshold to apply for a full-time job, especially for those families that would benefit most from it. According to the Government’s proposal, the municipality may request clarification or even further clarifications from other authorities or expert opinions. I wonder in what way such an administrative method is in the best interests of the child. In its own position, the Ombudsman for Children notes, inter alia, that inequalities can also be increased by the fact that access to full-time early childhood education is based on extensive and broad-based needs-tested, which are very limitedly regulated. It is possible that the submission of expert opinions will be the main rule. It can be particularly difficult to obtain different studies and opinions, especially for those families whose children would benefit most from full-time early education. It is therefore possible that families, in fear of stigmatisation, fail to apply for full-time early childhood education on the basis of the need for support or the circumstances of the family. This would leave the most vulnerable children and families without full-time early education support. I also find it very questionable that the government's assessment of this really important limit on children's well-being is justified by an assessment of the savings based on the data established in 2004. The municipal union’s estimate of this savings is also half that of the government. In other words, there is no clear information on the savings to be made. The limitation of subjective day care rights is also based on a very old-fashioned concept of permanent full-time work as a standard for all parents. However, both work and the labour market are undergoing a constant change, life situations can change even in the fast run, and more and more people are working in irregular times. The limitation of subjective day care rights can cause significant problems for, for example, performing parents whose shifts and working hours change. If the demarcation is carried out, it will produce significant new administrative work for both parents and early childhood education and municipal professionals, who are constantly required to report and monitor changes in the work situation. For children, this means constant changes in daycare routines and possibly also changing groups. Mr President! The limitation of subjective day care rights combined with increasing group sizes will both reduce the quality of early childhood education for all children and increase social inequalities. I think we should know better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u89	Madam President! It's about day care. It's about what's best for a child. In day care, children learn social skills and grow in a safe environment. It has been studied that quality early childhood education is a key factor in coping with life. One of the best aspects of the Finnish system is that we have so far been guaranteeing all children access to quality early childhood education. As has often been said during the parliamentary term: What's the government doing? The government seems to think that children’s day care right is a right that parents must earn and that taking it away from a child is linked to parental labour status. I can't believe this. After all, early childhood education is a huge investment in both the social capital of the child and the future of society. The question arises as to why in Finland we are moving towards a model in which we do not want to invest equally in every Finnish child and teach them life skills. So are we moving to a country where we do not give an unemployed person's child a day-care facility, at least on an equal basis? How is it possible for us to accept that a child is put on an unequal footing with a friend because of the employment situation of his or her parents? There have been many shortcomings in the government's labour market expertise in the past, so let me just say a few words. The current labour market is very complex. What do children whose parents do freelance shredding work or, for example, part-time work or job work? What is the measure of their participation in the labour market? Today, employment relationships are inextricable and also insecure. What do children whose parents get short contracts for a few months and are sometimes unemployed? So do children always have to change their day care rights or status? So will a bureaucratic machine be created to determine and monitor how much parents of young children have worked for a particular month? How much is this going to cost? I just ask whether this government was not supposed to cut red tape and try to break standards. Like many of the government's actions, this also seems very contradictory. Not only is this unequal, but it is also expensive. The Government takes the Finnish system towards making day care a privilege for children whose parents work full-time. This inequality will be felt among the most vulnerable older families in the labour market. A good example is the long-term unemployed and, unfortunately, among those with an immigrant background, unemployment is higher than among the general population. Is it a good way to integrate their Finnish-speaking children into society by taking them to day care? Is this how the integration of second-generation immigrants will be ensured? This is a truly absurd bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u90	Madam President! Minister! Today, in Parliament, there has been a very intense debate about a government proposal that removes the subjective right to early education from our children. The conversation has been very colorful, and sometimes it feels like feelings have become hot in it, and I guess it's no wonder that our children have a future for all of us. From August next year, the right to a full-time day care place is now limited to children of full-time employees, students and entrepreneurs. In addition, the group sizes of day - care centers are growing, for there should be eight children instead of seven for one parent. Is it right that the child’s right to early childhood education always changes according to the situation of his or her parents? The government sees early childhood education not as a child’s right but merely as a parent’s right to a child’s place of care. The Government justifies its proposal with only savings, even though it is the child’s right to early education. For example, the Ombudsman for Children and the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament criticised the government's proposals that they put children in an unequal position in the final round of opinions in September. The Board of Directors proposes that a full-time care place should always be arranged if necessary due to the child’s development, need for support or family circumstances, or otherwise in the best interests of the child. I share the concern of the Commissioner for Children that the inequality of children will increase here too. Access to a full-time day care place is based on a loose need test. Is it right for children to be unequaled by the municipality in which they live? If the municipality of residence is in a difficult economic situation, a full-time day care place is more easily missed even if the criteria are found. Madam President! Families in a difficult situation may not be able or able to apply for full-time day care even if the family situation justifies it. Families in a difficult situation need all the support, not more reports on the situation of the family to the authorities. According to economicist James Heckman, the euro invested in early childhood education comes back seven times as much to society. This, too, would be of interest to the government. Investment in basic services for children and families, such as early childhood education, will bring savings in the longer term. They effectively reduce the need for expensive special services and child protection. I cannot understand why early childhood education is referred to in the Government Programme as the main subject of surgery. Why is its value not recognized? Mr President! The Left Alliance started last week. Do not steal from children a campaign for equal day care rights and against raising group sizes. I would like to see some time from the representatives, and especially from the ministers, to take a look at this campaign of ours. There are good tips and, as Mr Kontula also said, there are reports which have extensively explained the effects of this proposal on the future of real expensive bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u91	Madam President! When decisions are taken on children, they should always be based on the best interests of the child. However, the starting point for this proposal is something quite different. The government's desire to limit the right of children from unemployed families to early childhood education and to raise groups of children to discriminate. It weakens the very position of the children who would need our support and help most of all. It makes Finnish early childhood education worse. It creates a children's class society. Madam President! If this government or the Minister of Education were to listen to experts and take these statements and concerns which we have been told seriously, this proposal would not be in this Parliament's deliberations. The Ombudsman for Children has stated that these deteriorations are clearly leading to a worse situation and are violating the objectives of the newly established Early Childhood Education Act. Child welfare organisations state quite unequivocally in their own statements that the proposal discriminates against children and stigmatises disadvantaged families. The Finnish Association of Psychologists strongly warns that the government's savings in early childhood education will be paid as increased costs of child psychiatry and child welfare. These are quite serious warnings, and I really would like them to be taken seriously, especially when last week the Association of Local and Regional Authorities stated that these justified economic savings do not correspond to the realities of the municipalities and that these savings will not be achieved with this bill. Madam President! This leads to the conclusion that the government's proposal is ideological, and this is, in fact, well supported by the debate in the Chamber which took place earlier. However, small groups and the equal right of children to early childhood education have been the basis of Finnish high-quality early childhood education. We know more and more about the importance of good, equal and high-quality early childhood education in the life of a small child and how he will manage at school, how he will manage for the rest of his life. I myself am the chairman of the early childhood education committee in Helsinki, and we have dealt with this very much. As Finland’s largest provider of early childhood education, Helsinki has already decided that this proposal will weaken the position of children and reduce the quality of early childhood education to such an extent that: Helsinki will not implement this law if this is adopted. This will, however, mean that all responsibility for this decision will be transferred to the municipalities and the child's position in the future, not only in what family he will be born into, but also in what municipality he will be born into, and that is not right. In my opinion, this is a shameful performance for Finnish children. And in addition, this presentation is made at a time when the government’s other actions increase the number of poor families with children and child poverty. Cutting from small children is a choice of values, and it is a poor choice of values. That is why, in my opinion, this bill should by no means be adopted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u92	Mr President! In the previous week, we Members of Parliament had a week off from sitting. I used my own leave to visit several day care centres, among other things. The atmosphere there was dismayed and horrified. The day care staff felt that their work was not appreciated at all. The first of their concerns relates to the fact that, a few weeks ago, the change in the decree was one of the most unpleasant issues in the government, namely the tightening of the dimension of day care for children over three years of age, so that one adult may have 8 children to care for in the future instead of seven children. Thus, the size of the day care group rises to 24 children and becomes the size of school classes, although the child may spend up to 10 hours a day in early childhood education. This despite the fact that, on the contrary, more hand pairs are needed in kindergartens and not less. Day care visits showed that a large proportion of early childhood education facilities are so small that there is no room for more children in groups. The number of coats, tables, chairs and beds required by the extra children cannot be accommodated in the cramped spaces once and for all. Many municipalities are now wondering whether groups of two adults with 16 children and 2 adults will be made in the future. Unfortunately, this will require more day care facilities and more replacements, as two adults will no longer be able to manage if one of the adults is ill. However, it is unlikely that any savings will be made in this way. Mr President! The government's proposal to restrict the subjective right to day care is now under discussion. I believe, as many early childhood education workers do, that, in principle, for a child of early childhood, four hours of early childhood education is quite sufficient when either parent is at home and there are no social problems, for even the lower classes do not have a longer day. However, the way in which the government implements the restriction of this subjective day care right to 20 hours a week is detrimental to the development of children and jeopardises educational equality. The situation of these children, whose right to day care is restricted to part-time work, is very worrying. They may now end up with a group of up to 13 children per adult, or up to 39 children in the group. After all, the laws have so far left a dead letter for part-time children, which actually allows for this amount in the future. In other words, the situation of children who are covered by a limited day-care right compared to those who are covered by an unlimited right is no longer equal because the group of part-time children can be huge in size. As the family’s situation changes, for example, when parents are employed, the child may have to change groups, which is also not good for the child’s development and security. After all, one of the most important things about a child’s well-being is that of permanent relationships, familiar adults and familiar friends. This is all in danger now. I can only imagine how many small stomachs will be sore in the mornings when you’re nervous about who’s in kindergarten today. Mr President! In addition, parents’ choice to spend 4 hours a day in early childhood education or a couple of three days a week longer makes it difficult to build up groups. Different days and times have different numbers and different children present, while at the same time the need for staff varies. Some municipalities may even make morning groups and afternoon groups separately for reasons of savings. Where do growing groups and constantly changing children have legal early childhood education plans, discussions with parents about how the day has gone, when are parental watchmen to be conducted? When will the staff have time to do the required recording and other administrative and planning tasks? Day care centers are becoming a hollipop where children come and go. In the future, the child would be entitled to full early childhood education rights because of the work or study of the parents or if there are social reasons for it. Who is the one who defines these social reasons? Few children have a background in child welfare, but there can still be a social reason for a full day of early childhood education. This is what early childhood education professionals tell you. These causes may include the immigrant background, problems with parental life management or many other causes. In addition, the government intends to change the day care of preschool children in the future so that it can be replaced as a more affordable club activity. This will at the latest lead to a breakdown of educational equality, as the organisation of club activities is not regulated in any way. Thus, an Israelite may have to change groups up to three times a day — in an undefined large club in the morning, in a preschool group of 39 children and in a club in the afternoon. At the end of the day, despite the deterioration in quality, day care fees and morning and afternoon care fees will increase. In addition to these handicaps, early childhood education workers may be exposed to the first day of sickness in the future, i.e. they feel in their small pay that they are exposed to flu and stomach diseases. For example, a kindergarten teacher's salary of over two grand, one less day is a big node. Similarly, the government plans to take away the extra holiday days, which are often the only thanks for 15 years of work in the municipal sector in many municipalities and an incentive to continue with low-paid jobs. When I visited kindergartens, I heard that many of the newly graduated kindergarten teachers are appalled at the daily routine they meet in the day care centers. Most of the day goes to large groups of children to control chaos, to eat, to dress, and only a small part of the day is allowed to do what the university has been trained to do. Many will soon move on to class teacher training. As a result of a number of cuts and weakenings in the government’s early childhood education, the question arises as to who will be able to leave the sector even if he wants to work with children and for the good of the children. Preschool education is a unique phase of life for a child and paves his way to the school road. Early education is not a cost item, but an investment in the future. According to the OECD, the investment of the euro in early childhood education will produce up to €7 later, i.e. more than any other education or training. However, the government does not seem to care about this, but only early childhood education will save EUR 154 million as a restriction on subjective day care and a rise in group sizes. According to that OECD calculation, this would cause seven times as many losses, i.e. more than one billion, in the future. I very much hope that the government will not pay for the recession in children and give up these savings. Only small groups can actually guarantee quality early childhood education. Larger groups undermine children's ability to receive sufficient attention, and large groups are also a risk to special children and also to their future school survival, that is, precisely the skills that the government and we all would like to increase. It should also be borne in mind that the more children there are in the group, the more illnesses the surveyed increase, and thus also the absence of parents from work, which the government would like to reduce.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u93	Mr President! I'm gonna start with a sitter, "The rest went to kindergarten, but I couldn't get out when my mom was out of work. I don't give a shit about sitting alone at home watching my mom drink beer." This is what was written to me at the moment by a man in his 50s, whose own childhood takes place at a time before a subjective day care right, in whose life everything has not gone quite straight and who was concerned about whether we will now be able to secure a better starting point for the children of the future. Today I was thinking in particular about how the limitation of the right to subjective day care will affect the third role of day care — the role of child protection. At the moment, the majority of parents, one of whom is at home, are trying to limit the length of day care days for their children. Although these children are in a full-time position, the actual length of the day care week is less than 30 hours in the majority of such families. Parents do not want to give up full - time care because things may change quickly in the family or because they do not want a child to have to change places, but families seem quite capable of ensuring that whenever the family situation allows, day - care days are kept to a reasonable degree. What, then, are the families where, despite the parent’s being at home, a child takes a long day in day care? According to the 2004 report of the STM, which unfortunately is the most recent one we have, these are families with very valid reasons for having a long day for a child. Families have mental health problems, have a family member who is seriously ill or have temporary jobs. These are the families whose lives would be most affected by this reform. The question is: How many of these families would apply for a discretionary full-time care place when day care actually benefits most? In other words, when you are not yet under child welfare care care care and can be used to prevent child care concern from ever having to arise. To what extent would they be prepared to justify to municipal decision-makers that, in this situation, they are now unable to take full - time care of their children? The second question: How would the threshold for full-time care in these cases really be kept low in reality in a situation where the finances of municipalities are in the same condition as they are? And we know from many other services that even a regulatory, numerically measured restriction does not cause municipalities to fulfil their minimum obligations. What, then, will happen with discretionary additional benefits or special support? For example, there does not seem to be any desire, ability and ability in the municipalities to hold on to the time when income support is granted, even if we have very precise sanctions in administrative practice. The third question is: How do we prevent unnecessary access to child protection if it appears that only the concern of child welfare guarantees the possibility of a full-time place? For example, when home services were aimed primarily at families with child protection concerns and clients of child welfare, this meant a significant increase in child protection notifications. All these questions give rise to a very strong assumption that this reform is expected to have a significant fall in the child protection sector. However, the problems with child protection, the third task of day care, are not limited to this. Children other than this group are also affected by a deterioration in the quality of day care. It appears as a significant increase in treatment groups. It was only a year ago when a young mother, a colleague of mine, complained that there was not even enough time to read women's magazines with one child when there was so much work to do. How, then, when there are 30 of these children in a group of three adults? The reform throws the children into a precar in everyday life, in which the transition from one group to another breaks the treatment and friend relationships. Although the legal reform guarantees the possibility of day care in the same day care centre, for a one-meter-long person, a change of group means in practice a change in all social relationships. And this change would take place at a time when there is a potential crisis in the home or at least a major process of change going on when the unemployment period has begun when a new family member is born when someone is seriously ill. Subjective day care law is the biggest social policy reform of the Y generation in Finland. It is also one of the absolutely greatest political achievements of women. And those women who have raised their children before subjective day care, while working at the same time, have been in active contact and are really, really worried. Let's not turn the clock back.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u94	Mr President! The government proposal weakens and undermines the child’s subjective right to early childhood education. A child should be entitled to early childhood education only 20 hours a week. A child would only be entitled to full-time early childhood education if the child’s parents work full-time, study or act as entrepreneurs. In other words, the children of the unemployed and of those working part-time and the older children on parental leave, most often of the families of babies, would be excluded from the right to full-time care. This bill is a major weakening of equality. The child’s right to early childhood education becomes dependent on the situation of the parent’s life. However, it is proposed that early childhood education should always be organised at the current level, if necessary due to the development of the child, the need for support or the circumstances of the family, or otherwise in the best interests of the child. According to the proposal, changes in the scope of the right to early childhood education should not result in a child starting early childhood education having to change the place of early childhood education as a result of the change. More essential for the child is that he or she should have the right to remain in his or her own familiar group of children. In Parliament's women's network, we heard experts, none of whom were in favour of restricting subjective day care. According to child psychiatrist Jukka Mäkelä, the idea that the performance is contrary to the best interests of the child was confirmed. Man is a strong herd animal, the skills to work in a group are learned early. It's important for a child to be stable. In day care, the group breaks down in situations where some children occasionally come into treatment. Those children are more easily left out of the game from the start. People have the natural ability to include in the group but also to exclude someone. It is the adult’s responsibility not to leave anyone out of the group. Being an outsider may be the first step on the path to serious exclusion, but the government also reduces the quality of day care by increasing group sizes by regulation. According to OECD calculations, the EUR 1 investment in quality early childhood education will bring back EUR 7 to society. The investment will return not only to the success of a child with early childhood education in life but also to the employment and career development of the mother of the child. One of the weaknesses of the government's proposal is the lack of impact assessments, both economic and social. No account has been taken of the costs of red tape arising from evaluations when applying for full-time care for child protection reasons. The proposal lacks an assessment of day care from the point of view of child welfare. There are currently no strict criteria for who needs treatment. Families are free to choose what is best for them and the child. Families can have a playable age who needs a parent’s fatigue, unemployment, disability, mental health problems or a friend. A nurse who is familiar with day care can also notice in time if the child is not well and the family can receive help in time. High-quality early childhood education paves the way for family differences and supports the ability of all children to survive the school path. If, for example, there is unemployment in the family, it may also be that other disadvantages are associated with this, in which case the child’s need for support is particularly great. However, it is these children's rights that are being cut. The proposal also adds red tape: how to monitor the situation of the parent? There are also practical problems with the performance, such as how to ensure that the group sizes are kept small enough and the child's right to continue in the same group, how to take account of gigs and varying working hours. Mr President! In many countries, school begins at the age of 3 to 4. For us, this is replaced by early childhood education in day care. On the other hand, a child may be in home care when the family so chooses. Therefore, club activities, open day care centres and residential parks are also key services supporting families and children. In principle, families must be able to choose how much day care they need. Today, working life is fragmented: there are a lot of temporary workers, part-time workers and freelancers, but situations change rapidly and unemployed people need to be able to focus on finding work without having to worry about child care arrangements. Day care is a universal and subjective right for a child, where everyone is equal. It's in the best interests of the child. I do not support the government's proposal and I hope that the committee will have the courage to look into it, to consult experts and to withdraw the bad proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u95	Mr President! In my speech, I would like to comment on both subjective day care rights and the group sizes of day care, both of which have a negative impact on the growth and development of children. So the government has decided to increase group sizes in day care. Increasing group sizes will increase the development of inequality. Large groups make it difficult for children to meet individually and to develop their linguistic and social skills. Many children do well in large groups, but we have a large group of children who simply do not like being in large groups. It causes, among other things, anxiety, learning difficulties and difficulties in social relations. In the future, at worst, a child may have to be in a group of up to 39 children. For example, for different learners and children with neuropsychiatric disorders, the situation is intolerable. Mr President! The limitation of the right to day care excludes children who benefit from and need full-time early childhood education, as it is psychologically unreasonable for many families to explain the need for full-time care for a specific reason. Fortunately, I have heard in many municipalities that you are not going to ask questions there — if the family brings the child into full - time care, then the family needs it. That's a good principle. Many municipalities have also decided to reject these proposals completely. Unfortunately, different decisions are taken in different municipalities and this leads to inequalities between children across the country. Many early childhood education workers wonder how this government’s decision can be implemented in a reasonable way. One obvious problem is that if parents choose between part-time and part-week care, it is difficult to organise day care rationally, and groups of children are constantly changing. This makes it difficult to achieve continuity in group activities and the social relations of children suffer. At worst, it will lead to the morning to see which group the child can fit in today. I would ask the Minister whether this is good early childhood education and support for the growth of the child. According to international studies, investing in children is highly productive for public finances and society. One euro invested in early childhood education will bring back EUR 7 to society in the future. Early childhood education is always primarily the right of the child and only in the second place is it possible for parents to go to work. In 2011, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has called on Finland to prepare a new law on early childhood education, which specifically strengthens the child’s rights perspective so that the coverage and quality of early childhood education is improved, inter alia by increasing the number of staff, limiting group sizes of day-care centres and ensuring better continuity of care relationships. The changes planned by the government are very contrary to these recommendations. During the last period, a comprehensive reform of the early childhood education law was launched, which had now to be continued during this period, and in part it seems that in many cases we are going backwards. The Sipilä Government Programme promises to introduce an assessment of the impact of decisions on children and the family. However, they have not been made in the present proposals. The assessments to which the government refers are seriously out of date. This is one example of the government's poor law-making work that we have constantly come across this autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u96	Mr President! The cuts proposed by the government for early childhood education, such as the limitation of subjective day care rights and the raising of groups in early childhood education, are not only bad decisions for the welfare of the child but also economically absurd. As has been said several times in this Chamber today, the euro saved today from early childhood education will cost society many times more in the future and the euro put in today will save a lot in the future. Investing in early childhood education is one of the most profitable investments we can make in society. The government has calculated that the limitation of subjective day care rights will result in savings of EUR 6.6 million for the state. This saving is small in view of the decision to put children on an unequal footing, to make life difficult for both families and day-care centres, and it is likely to cost many times more in the long term in relation to short-term savings. The government should listen to early childhood education professionals and legal scholars, whose feedback on the limitation of the right to day care has been quite critical. Among other things, the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament has stated in his opinion that children cannot be placed in an unequal position solely because of economic factors such as the savings needs of the state and municipalities, because this is not an acceptable criterion for fundamental rights. One of the main problems of limiting subjective day care rights is that it puts children in an unequal position and dismantles the right of the child to equal early childhood education. In practice, the social status of parents, such as whether the parent or parent is working or not, would determine in the future whether the child is entitled to full-time early education or not. This is a major change in principle, and it is actually a dismantling of the subjective right of the child, not just a restriction. Not only is this a matter of principle important and problematic, but it will also complicate the daily lives of day-care centres, families and children at a very concrete level. For example, the size of groups of part-time children may be significantly higher than that of groups of full-time children, as the part-time child is calculated to be half-child in the day-care centre group. There may be 13 part-time children for one employee, while seven full-time children are allowed. At worst, this would mean groups of up to 39 children. The change would make the everyday shrapnel of kindergartens and burden both children and those working with children. Even now day care workers are under strain, and these decisions make the situation even worse, workers with only two hands. Professionals in early childhood education The two-hand task force has therefore sent a message to the MPs expressing their concerns about the limitation of subjective day care rights. The group illustrates in its message ten very practical examples what the decision means in the everyday lives of ordinary families and day care workers. I would like to highlight one example of these in order to make it concrete here in the Chamber. Now I'm quoting this message: "What would the decision mean, for example, from Lena's single mother. If necessary, Alice will make replacements in an invitation agreement. Leena has had a full - time place in a nearby day care center because her mother’s work comes at a quick notice. When Mom doesn't have a job, Leena gets to choose whether to go to day care or stay home with Mom. As the subjective day care right is limited, Leena no longer has a full-time day care place. It is difficult to accept locations, because there are few places where work is available only for half a day and just at the time when Leena’s care agreement determines. Mother’s work is greatly reduced and the family’s financial situation becomes more challenging. In fact, the mother has to rely on income support to support herself and her daughter. Mother is considering becoming unemployed because it creates a safer everyday life for the family." The limitation of subjective day care rights was waived during the last government term, because the savings it sought were found to be small and, correspondingly, the risks were high. Subjective day care law has been important, especially for disadvantaged families, as it has offset social inequalities in education and income levels and has prevented the deepening of existing problems. This has also been referred to in several speeches today. The government's decision to cut children's inequalities from early childhood education increases, complicates the daily lives of families, burdens day care workers and children, increases red tape and, in the long term, costs financially, and also undermines the labour market position and gender equality of women. It is simply a bad decision, and I really hope, from the point of view of children, families and day care workers, that the government will have the ability to listen to experts and the understanding to withdraw this absurd bill of savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u97	Mr President! Minister and other colleagues! Before going into this government proposal, the question of time before, a look back: why did we, in due course, have a subjective day care right specifically for full-time care? The subjective right to full-time care was created in 85 C.E. in order to commit municipalities to organising day-care facilities for children, i.e. families where both parents worked. So the law was especially needed because mothers were also able to work and children were given day care at the same time. This principle is also maintained in the Government's proposal in this referral debate. Unfortunately, however, this subjective right to full-time care has also begun to be exercised by applying for full-time care for children even in families where either parent is on parental leave or with the support of home care. For individuals, for families, this is not a major economic solution often, but together they create an additional financial responsibility of millions of euros for municipalities. As in any case, the actions of this government reduce the functions of municipalities and promote a culture of experimentation, which is based on giving municipalities the freedom and responsibility to provide services more flexibly and from various needs onwards, also applies to early childhood education services. According to the performance, all children have the same right to early childhood education, 20 hours a week. Thus, in the envisaged legislative amendment, the child will retain the right to high-quality early childhood education, but this full-time day care is not required for the implementation of early childhood education. The family can also choose full-time care on a part-week basis. The limit applies to families in which either parent does not work full-time, does not study full-time or does not act as an entrepreneur, however, so that, if full-time early childhood education is needed, it is also entitled. As has been heard today in this debate in the Grand Chamber, this government proposal is not simple, but what is it about politics when it comes to priorities and choices? Above all, it is about quality early childhood education and the right of the child to do so. In that debut I referred to an example of Oulu. The flagship of Oulu Open Day Care Centre, Green House, turned 30 years ago. Since autumn 2012, there are dozens of open day care centres that are now open throughout the city, club activities, i.e. high-quality early childhood education, have been free of charge for all children. As early as autumn 2012, when I was the chairman of the City Council of Oulu, we applied for the possibility of acting as a pilot city in this club activity and, in that respect, to respond to the full-time limitation of subjective day care rights. This experiment has not yet been carried out, but I can see that more is involved in the coming years of this law, more about how municipalities are going to implement and apply high-quality early childhood education, because for this example of nine hours, if we start thinking about what time a child has in a week for that early childhood education activity, it is even higher time than full-time care in a day care centre. Last but not least: the opposition may agree with one big point that this issue, too, in the coming years will need the studies and studies that would have been carried out in this period. It is regrettable that most of our studies are nearly ten years old.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u98	Mr President! The proposed amendment to the early childhood education law limits the right to day care when one or both parents are at home. The subjective day care right is not going to disappear completely, but all those who wish to have access to full-time or part-week early childhood education, a total of 20 hours a week. The family still has the right to opt for home care or private care as an alternative to this municipal care. There are also many different free or affordable clubs where the child learns social skills. For example, parishes have different kinds of activities, such as family and day clubs, which aim to support the child’s overall development and Christian education in homes. And we also need to take into account various organisations, 4H activities, Mannerheim's The Child Welfare Association's activities, and so on. It should be noted that the long-term illness or hospitalisation of a child of early childhood education must be taken into account, and in particular that disabled people are also entitled to early childhood education. Despite this limitation, there is still a need-tested opportunity to receive full-time care due to problems of parenting, fatigue or other specific causes. The bill highlights the hearing of the family in decision-making. If the family considers that the child needs full-time early childhood education for special reasons, it is possible to arrange it even if the parent is at home. In addition, the right to full-time care will remain in the same place for two months after the parent has become unemployed. This will ensure a familiar place of care, while encouraging rapid re-employment or, for example, training. In the same respect, the family can choose home care or private care allowance, which can be obtained as an alternative to day care for a full period of two months. Mr President! The important thing is that the child has at least one older person he can trust. And every child has a different way of learning. Today, too, it is thought to a great extent that the actual learning of a child takes place within the context of situations planned in advance by adults. This makes it very easy to remain prisoners of teaching and learning content, does not understand the importance of everyday situations or working together, nor does it understand that you cannot learn without play. Day care centres, especially groups under the age of three, do not have to have excessive efficiency, as the day care centre is also home to young children during the day when their parents are working alongside the centre of early childhood education. In practice, the limitation of subjective day care rights applies to approximately 11,000 children. However, the resulting savings are significant, and for reasons of savings they are made. The best interests of the child are not ignored because the municipalities have an obligation to consult the family and to decide on the need for day care individually in the best interests of the child to be full-time. Hopefully this will be the case in practice. I believe that in most cases, however, it is in the best interests of the child to receive the care of his or her own mother or father and to participate in the family’s everyday life when possible. Or is it right for a child to spend long days in day - care homes even if his own mother or father is at home with a smaller sibling? The obligation to provide a full-time care place for all has become quite expensive. Many municipalities are in trouble when they do not want to have enough places to care. This leads to many being forced to carry children far away from home and work and, worst of all, siblings to different places. Such a restriction may facilitate access for those working or studying to a place reasonably close to their route. The municipalities still have the opportunity to decide independently on the provision of full-time day care rights according to their own resources. And finally, in Finland day care is also given at night and at night, at weekends. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Sweden, although it is a model here when everything is so good in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u99	Mr President! This government proposal proposes moderate changes in the number of part-time early childhood education for families where the parent is present during the day. Every child will remain entitled to at least 20 hours of early childhood education per week. Furthermore, according to the presentation, early childhood education should always be organised at the current level, if necessary due to the child’s development, need for support or family circumstances, or otherwise in the best interests of the child. The specific needs of the child are clearly taken into account in the proposal. The aim is also to ensure that the child who started early childhood education does not have to change the place of early childhood education as a result of the change. The needs of the child are thus given priority. Today, in the debate on referrals after the dramatic speeches by the opposition, it is good to say that many families affected by unemployment raise children very well and properly and that children do not always suffer so much from the unemployment of their parents. Unemployment does not automatically mean a troubled family. There has also been a lot of reference to experts in today's debate, but it should be noted that some experts advocate that the child should also be more at home and especially in the company of parents. It is important to remember that Finland will also remain among the leading countries in early childhood education in Europe, both in terms of low fees and quality of education, and will be able to withstand international comparisons with comparable countries. As Mr Puumala said earlier, most of the Finnish people support the reform of early childhood education. There is also broad support among the supporters of opposition parties. The motion is therefore not only supported by supporters of the government parties. Mr President! Efforts have also been made to make this reform as fair and reasonable as possible for all families in a situation where cost savings in the public sector simply need to be found. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u100	Mr President! Secretary Grahn-Laasonen! In this debate on the limitation of the right to day care, it is a good background to note that the government has just decided on 22 October to amend the day care regulation in such a way that the ratio to adults in childcare groups increases. I mean, more kids, less breeders. With the change of regulations, one adult in a day care centre should be able to cope with eight children under three years of age. Before the three - year - olds were allowed to have 21 children, there would be 24 in the future. And if, as a result of the limitation of the right to day care, children in part-time early childhood education become part-time, the group size may be much higher than this. Groups of day care centres with only part-time children can have as many as 39 children. It is good to be aware that sufficient staff and a sufficiently small group size are, or would be, key factors in the quality of early childhood education. In the new proposal, what is in the best interests and well-being of the child? It seems that the day-care centres are made up of containers where the children and the day-care centre staff will be able to survive for the day. Where is security, pedagogy and the ability of workers? Child day care is a low-wage sector with labour shortages for qualified staff. Is this how you get more hands to do day care? Is this high-quality early childhood education? In addition to basic care, it is also up to young children to observe each child together and separately, in accordance with the Early Childhood Education Act, so that, in a spirit of partnership with parents, each child can draw up an early childhood education plan which is also followed in everyday work. Early childhood education and child care are not just games, crafts, stripping and dressing — there is much more, demanding and responsible pedagogical content, or at least there should be in accordance with the early childhood education law. High-quality early childhood education develops children's social skills, peer relations and learning capacity and strengthens the well-being of the entire family. The Government's proposal does not strengthen these matters, but weakens their chances of being realised. Quite recently, a new law on early childhood education was actually introduced, which many day care professionals expected for years, even decades. The new law emphasizes pedagogy, but it will soon be of no importance if child groups are greatly enlarged. In practice, kindergarten teachers do not have the opportunity to invest in pedagogy, but the main objective of the day care centre will be that all children in day care can be released safely and unharmed at the end of the working day to their parents. Mr President! There are a lot of children in public day care centres who need special care and rehabilitation, children with child protection and children with immigrant background. Children from very ordinary families may also have special needs that need to be taken into account in day care — for example, one relatively common child with type one diabetes needs blood sugar to be measured and monitored closely throughout the day and many times. I would like to quote one of the daycare centres’ leaders from the following day care centre: “In addition to this soup, the 20-week children — and they also need early childhood education plans to be made for them, and before that, children should be observed so that the plan has some real basis — the number of children’s interactions in the group goes beyond their tolerance. Think of the full-time children who are in that group every day, and then there will be another group from the beginning of the week, and at the end of the week the group will change when the 20-hour, part-time children arrive at the end of the week. The proposal to limit the right to day care favours private day care centres, where more hours can be bought with money, and children of families who are working on a temporary basis will continue to apply to the public. As head of the day care centre, I choose who may be longer than the one who really needs it. This system increases work in municipalities when decisions are constantly made and child care periods are changed according to the employment of older people. So much for those regular chewing gums." Mr President! This is certainly not a smooth, cost-effective and administratively simple model of day care. By limiting the right to day care, group sizes are increased and resources transferred from care and education to bureaucracy. The proposal therefore leads to costs which have not been taken into account at all. A place in a day-care centre or family day-care centre requires a decision of the authority. Changes in treatment periods require a new decision to ensure that invoicing works with up-to-date information. The participation of part-time, part-week and full-time children in the everyday life of early childhood education also requires shift planning, personnel organisation and operational planning. The working time of care and education staff takes time to collect statistical and report data, for which no price has been calculated. Thus, apparently, increasing administrative work would be out of the basic task of staff, child care and early childhood education. The proposal does not indicate what working time and costs would be used to estimate which families' children are entitled to full-time care and who are not. There are many reasons and arguments that are well known. According to the explanatory memorandum of the bill, less than 7% of children currently in full-time early childhood education would be transferred to part-time early childhood education. Does this not mean that 93% of children’s parents would have to individually demonstrate the need for full - time care for their children? Not all of these assessments, in a flexible way and, if necessary, several times in the same family, can really be drawn out of the hat. But the arguments are not automatically found with little work in any of the finished statistics or registers either. Has the cost of the necessary resources been estimated at all by means of savings effects when making a reasoned proposal for a decision? All in all, early childhood education services and the benefits of public sector personnel are being drastically cut. I am concerned about how the day care staff can cope if the work is no longer meaningful. For many parents and families, day care for children carries out work that is classified as a priority. That's where we little children's parents in everyday life leave our most precious, our own children. Increasing the number of child groups together with the deterioration of employee benefits will have a radical impact on coping with day care work. At the same time, working careers should be extended. The forecast for this equation is poor. One of the most important factors in abstinence is the loss of meaningfulness in work. Sixten Korkman, a well-known and respected professor of economics in Helsingin Sanomat at the beginning of October, said about the subjective right to day care: "The limitation of the right to day care applies to children who in particular need the support we have in our high-quality day care centres. The decision is stupid and will cost society long-term. Investment in the learning of young children and the promotion of social skills is one of the most profitable investments for society." Mr President! There seems to be such a thing in the government now that women and children do not appreciate much. Savings are value choices. The government has revealed its worth at this point. Professor of Education Kirsti Karila, who was invited to a steering group set up by the Finnish National Board of Education in September, has said that these decisions take early childhood education back 20 or even 30 years. It is a great mistake and a shame with which work in the interests of long-term early childhood education, the child, families will be wasted. I appeal to the government to reconsider and continue to maintain the child's subjective full day care right, safeguarding the interests of children and families, which is of great importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u101	Mr President! Children of parents whose parents do not have a full-time permanent employment relationship — and there are very many of these children — will become a part-time nurse in the future. The right to a full-time day-care place for these short-term kindergartens constantly varies according to the work situation of the parents. However, children must have the right to have their own permanent group and friends, which will be broken by this influence of the law. Only in a permanent group does the child get an important feeling of belonging to the group for all of us. This is how children learn to work in a group at an early stage. This effectively prevents exclusion and paves the way towards the school road, and the unrestricted right to early childhood education is also important for immigrant children. Several speakers have already addressed the issue of needs. This is one of the most controversial aspects of the government proposal. It is therefore entirely up to the municipalities to decide how to use the needs test and how to get a full-time day care centre for social reasons. It is incomprehensible that the right of a child to a full - time job depends entirely on the municipality in which he or she lives, not on the need for a child. Mr President! This raises the question of how unemployed parents can take on gigs and other short-term full-time jobs on a fast schedule if the child is only entitled to part-time care. How quickly can a full - time day care place be obtained if the work situation of parents changes continuously and quickly? This termination of the subjective day care right will certainly make employment even more difficult. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a question: Minister, how does this law facilitate the government's employment objectives? At this stage, it seems to have the opposite effect and will also increase the inequality of unemployed children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u102	Mr President! In some way, in this debate in the Chamber, the ideological difference between the government and the opposition really culminates. In some ways it seems that the opposition wants to outsource responsibility for early childhood education to society alone, while the government believes that education is a shared task between parents, society and our community as a whole. Unfortunately, Mr Kontula has already left the Chamber, but he opened his speech with a very touching Sitatat. However, I see that the problem raised by Mr Kontula is not a problem of early education, and I am thinking of the fact that it would have been better for this child to go to day care every day and leave it there for his parents to become even more alcoholic. This is a problem of child protection, and of course these child protection problems must be addressed, but they cannot be incorporated into this debate on early childhood education. We have also raised the points of view that this legislative change would cause Finland to collapse in these OECD Pisa studies. However, it is good to consider that the PISA studies started in 2000, when children born between 84 and 85 were examined. These children, while in day care, have been covered by the old day care legislation, and in this case, for example, there have also been considerably higher measurements of care providers. At least I am not myself, although I am children of that time, to say that I would under no circumstances have been treated badly when I was in day care, even though at the same time the accuracy of these matters has not been regulated. This brings us to this next problem, which the opposition particularly sees as a major difficulty, that municipalities and cities should have more freedom and autonomy in deciding how they organise early childhood education. I personally see this as nothing more than a positive thing, because municipalities and cities are people's communities and there the best knowledge of these things is. Similarly, I would now ask the opposition to finally march out an expert who says that it is better for a child to be in early childhood education, day care, even if one or both of his parents are at home. I don't think we'll find an expert like this. I would also have asked the Minister a question now that there is a chance that what kind of measures has now been planned by the government in view of the way in which parenthood will be supported in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u103	Mr President! Mr Kärnä: these experts have been consulted in committee at the moment, and your colleague from your party can shed light on the views of these experts, and they do support the views of the opposition. Mr President! The government has already adopted a regulation on the raising of day care groups. Now we have also received a bill to limit the child's day care rights to 20 hours a week. The right to full-time care is maintained only if the child’s parents study or work full-time. In addition, the government is increasing the fees for day care. The government's action in this matter is totally contradictory and unjustified. The Government Programme beautifully stated that early childhood education should be developed to support the well-being of the child. However, the government is working in a completely different direction. Even in this way, the child’s best interests are not sought in any way, but the only purpose is to limit the right to day care so that the savings required by the government for this term of government can be realised. Together with increasing group sizes, this will reduce the quality of services and increase inequalities. The saddest thing about this is that children suffer the most from the performance. In the future, the child’s right to early education will depend on the life situation of his or her parents. These changes will in practice destroy equal early childhood education in Finland and the equal and equal right of each child to receive the support they need for their own growth and development. In the future, this right will be determined by external factors, not by the right of the child, and this is perhaps the greatest difference between our opposition and the government. The government divides the children from a young age into a different laurel. You belong to that group, you belong to that group. The mother or father of this child is unemployed, while the parents of another child have a full-time employment relationship that gives him better rights to early childhood education, which rights must be guaranteed. However, this right should be guaranteed for each child regardless of the work situation of the parents. According to the bill, early childhood education may continue full-time if necessary due to the child’s development or family circumstances or otherwise in the best interests of the child. How is it presented and stated what is the best interests of the child in individual situations? How do parents show what is in the best interests of the child, and who and how is it defined in different municipalities? Is there a need for an assessment or a view of the situation by child welfare authorities or a maternity clinic? What is the significance of a child’s development if long-term unemployment is present in the family, how is it interpreted from the point of view of the child’s best interests? Are there parents who do not want to talk about, for example, the problem of alcohol or the family’s mental health or other problems? How many people in general can do this if the need for day care is due to difficult family circumstances, for example? In the same vein, the various experts have said that it is the children who may need early childhood education most who suffer from this bill. The vagueness of the entry can also lead to very open-ended situations when trying to determine the best interests of the child and the family conditions. It is easy to predict that different practices will emerge in municipalities, dictated by the economic situation. It may be that the child’s right to wider early childhood education will depend heavily on the municipality in which his or her family lives. Nor does the proposal take into account modern working life, many of which consist of short-term and interruptible employment relationships. In fact, many children have to get used to the constant change in the day care situation. Mr President! The quality of early childhood education is bound to decline, especially for children in part-time care. The law allows for groups of up to 39 children for part-time children. From the point of view of the child’s development, it is very important that the child is able to create different interactions, both with his or her peers and with adults. They have far - reaching meaning in the whole life of a person. Based on various studies, a small child is unable to deal with his/her interactions if the group is too large or the group is constantly changing. For this reason, the law already in force is too large a part-time group size for early childhood education groups. Rather than making it more difficult for a child to develop and interact with the child, we should develop early childhood education. The proposal will also create further inequalities in the content of services. These are of great importance for the unequal treatment of children and the quality of care. For example, four - hour daily early childhood education does not oblige the child to provide warm food. This was one of the reasons why the debate last season on whether to move from 25 hours of early childhood education to 20 hours per week was based on the inability of the municipalities to provide a balanced supply of warm food for all children. In other words, the supply of warm food will depend on the municipality in the future. As I said earlier, large groups, the limitation of the right to care and the reduced quality of care can be reflected in the learning of the child and, in particular, in the linguistic problems of migrant children. In addition, the proposal allows for unequal treatment of children in early childhood education activities organised by private and municipal authorities. In private early childhood education, child guardians can maintain full-time early childhood education by paying more for the services themselves. In municipal early childhood education, this possibility would not exist. Private care providers could also decide to only take full-time care of children, which in itself is already distorting the situation. So I ask the Minister: why does the government also treat public and private producers differently? Mr President! Finally, the Government says that it has carried out an economic impact assessment. That is the case, but the financial impact assessment of the proposal has used the 2004 statistics, i.e. data from 10 years ago. In my opinion, it is irresponsible to bring assessments that are almost 11 years old as a basis for the early childhood education law. On the other hand, the bill has not been assessed from the perspective of equality and equality between children. The proposal is incompatible with Articles 6, 16 and 19 of the Constitution and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why the proposal must also be submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u104	Mr President! We must briefly comment on this speech by Mr Kärnä: First of all, with regard to this home care, it must be said that I believe that our responsibility as decision-makers is to take into account the fact that there are very different families in Finland and that families also have very different conditions for caring for their children at home. That this aspect of child protection exists in early childhood education, and we in the opposition are particularly concerned about how this will be done in the future. I also find it rather shocking that Mr Kärnä’s view that it would be the responsibility of children under school age to be at home alone to deal with the affairs and parents of parents who are struggling with the alcohol problem. I hope this does not represent a broader view of the government. Finally, Mr Kärnä raised the issue of the possibility for the municipalities themselves to decide. We are not concerned about the increase in regional inequality that this is going to lead to, and I have at least personally thought that this was an important issue for the centre party, but I have obviously misunderstood.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u105	Mr President! Mr Andersson has, I hope, inadvertently misunderstood what I said. In any case, it would not be the task of this child to be at home dealing with his or her alcohol-related parents, but it is a question of tackling these problems by means of child protection, and I do not see that this is, above all, the problem of early childhood education that Mr Kontula raised in his speech. I would also have raised Mr Kiljunen's claim that experts have indeed said that it would be in the best interests of the child to be in care when one of his parents is at home or both parents are at home. Now that this is the way to go behind the experts, I think it would be fair for Mr Kiljunen to indicate whose expert he is referring to here. And I certainly do not see that there is such an aspect in this bill that we are creating regionally unequal procedures, but that we are strengthening that right in municipalities and cities to decide independently on their own affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u106	Mr President! We are used to it here in Parliament and it is such a practice that, when we have unfinished business in committee, we are not going to analyse the statements made by these experts, but I can give you these, who have strongly criticised this government proposal and have been concerned about this legislation: There is OAJ, THL, Jukka Mäkelä, then there is also Kela, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, Federation of Child Welfare. There are a number of experts in the field as organisations, as well as scientists who have been extremely familiar with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u107	One last response to Mr Andersson, whose name was mentioned in the speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u108	Mr President! In reply to Mrs Kärnä: After all, Finland has long wanted to strengthen preventive services, preventive services, low-threshold services for families with children, so that there is no need for these heavy, costly corrective measures and child protection measures. Consider, for example, this new Social Welfare Act, which specifically sought to get rid of these distinctive features. And now this is being brought into early childhood education and thus weakening this particular aspect of child protection in it. In other words, Mr Kärnä is completely different from what has been the case in this country in terms of social policy with regard to the services of families with children. On this regional inequality: We already know that different types of solutions are now being decided in the municipalities as to how we intend to secure this full-time care for all children in the future. And more experts have also warned that this will lead to very different types of decision being made in municipalities and across Finland as to which families will have this right in the future and which will not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u109	Once again, Mr Kärnä, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u110	Mr President! To Mr Andersson, at this point in time, this original speaker, Mr Kontula, touched upon it and Mr Kontula, pointed out that it would have been better for this child to leave it there and leave the parent there alone with their problems. In any case, I do not think this is the case. Of course, such problems must be addressed, but in this case it was not primarily a problem of early childhood education or day care, but a problem of child protection that should have been addressed. That is what I wanted to say in my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u111	Mr President! After all, the starting point of the government is to give every child the opportunity to have access to a high-quality early childhood education, and the objective in itself is good that at least 20 hours a week each child should have this opportunity. I would like to correct the example I mentioned earlier today. I heard Mr Kiljunen mention that, according to the 15-hour model, free early childhood education would also be available in Finland, but you meant Sweden — I did not listen to you properly. In that sense, I agree that the early childhood education law as such does not yet guarantee the 20-hour early childhood education for every child, because we must take into account those family members who live at the borders that they themselves have to pay for that early childhood education: they do not necessarily put the child into early childhood education if they are able to take care of the home, and those children will then not be able to benefit from this high-quality early childhood education. As such, this proposal is somewhat lame in this regard, although the objective is good for everyone. It is clear that this bill is, as the opposition claims, a savings law of this kind, but, although this is limited to the right to day care, the proposal does not undermine the child’s right to full-time care if the child’s interest so requires. This is stated very clearly in the government proposal, however, that a child must be provided with full-time early childhood education if it is necessary because of the child’s development, support or family circumstances, or otherwise it is in the child’s best interests. In other words, the law clearly states that municipal workers are obliged to provide this full-time day care in the interest of the child. However, I do not agree, Mrs Kiljunen, that long-term unemployment, for example, could be such a criterion if both parents are home, that on this basis the child should receive full-time early childhood education and day care. This cannot in any way justify the need to outsource the child from that family. Also, examples of family drinking problems, mental health problems and other problems, such as unemployment, have been used all the time, and this would make it better for the child to be in full - time day care. What are your reasons for this? Why should a child be in full - time day care? We have a clear law that if the family situation is so bad that parenthood does not work and the child cannot be cared for, then the child should be brought into child welfare, and thus even into a family home or somewhere other than that family. In other words, we cannot justify the fact that a child is forced to have it in a day care centre for between 8 and 10 hours if the parents are at home. Mr President! I recognise the weakness of this government's proposal that increasing group sizes does not serve the development we are seeking. If, in the government’s proposal, the group sizes increase, as in the case of these semi-careers, from 24 to up to 39 children temporarily, then it cannot be in the best interests of the child. I would like to see a careful and careful consideration of this in the work of the committee and in the preparation of the draft budget. The end result, however, is that we cannot outsource parenting to society, which is what is very much hoped for in this Chamber. We should support that parenthood at home, especially at home parenthood, put bets there, and the government is doing it this season too. We begin to support the well-being of families at home through home care support and such home support and service. In that sense, the government has made the right line that this home and parenthood will continue to be strongly supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u112	Mr President! Today, the most amazing reports have been discussed and presented about the harmful effects of part-time or early childhood education on the development of children. It has been criticised that the time of certain children with parents is increasing by more than 15 hours. Part-time solutions are already part of the everyday life of almost every family. It must be borne in mind that there is no such good model of education as the state can impose. In order to safeguard the growth of a small child, I think it is very important that the more he or she gets to be with his or her parents, especially if one of the parents is at home. It should also be borne in mind that, as a rule, the parents, not the municipality or a third party, are responsible for raising the child. Parenthood cannot be outsourced, as Mrs Niikko has just said to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u113	Mr President! I did not quite understand Mr Kärnä's idea that different practices in different municipalities would not lead to inequality. If, in one municipality, subjective full-time care is possible and group sizes are not increased and in another municipality group sizes are increased and full-time care is not possible, then I think that these children in different municipalities are in an unequal position. I have listened to the Minister before, and I know that this bill is very difficult for the Minister himself, too, because I know he thinks very much about many things as the opposition thinks. This has somehow been brought here as a savings law, but when these savings are so clearly questionable. I personally think so, or in fact I ask the Minister whether he has been familiar with this kind of hourly day care fee, because in the municipalities where this hour-based day care fee has been transferred, these savings have been made. I would have liked the government to rush into implementing this new practice in the municipalities now rather than making those savings for children in such a sad way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u114	Mr President! It is quite clear that these different practices between different municipalities will exist and that education equality will no longer be achieved in early childhood education, because indeed these things will be defined in different ways in municipalities: in one municipality, parents will be allowed to define the need for it themselves, and then in another municipality it will be very strict to determine that they will not, if they are not a customer of child protection or if these other conditions are not met. Very few children have that child welfare customership, yet there can be many different social reasons why full - time care is important. If you think that a new child comes into early childhood education, then who else but the parents will eventually feel this; necessarily the parents themselves cannot determine whether or not it is necessary, let alone that all parents should be able to demand it for their child. I would like to make two wishes at the discretion of the minister and the ministry now that there is that group size rule for these part-time children in relation to 13: I would very much like it if the minister could find a way that we could get this dead letter out of there, because now there is a serious risk that this will be done in the future. Special children could also be taken into account differently in these growing group size issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u115	Mr President! First of all, Mr Niiko: It is quite true that from the OECD and the Nordic countries, Finnish children use early childhood education less than other Nordic countries. In Sweden, for example, more than 90% of children are in early childhood education, and one reason for this is that there is this 15-hour free early childhood education that encourages families to take advantage of early childhood education. The second point is that you said and said that long-term unemployment cannot be a reason: I do not think that there can be a reason either. But what are the grounds in the family if, for example, parents are unemployed for two or three years and do not work, for example, because they do not have professional qualifications and because they are not employed during these difficult periods of employment, what are the arguments that would support the child’s full-time early childhood education? It cannot always be the situation of parents in all situations. Nor can it be that, if the family has child protection problems, it is only then that we begin to support the child with full-time early education, but early childhood education should, above all, be a preventive measure. And then it also supports the child's equal development in learning, and then when he starts school, at that point children will be in a more equal position to start school. And then I would like to ask the Minister that, when this bill was actually evaluated last season, and that this bill was then blocked — and the Social Democrats were one of the strong influences in the fact that this limitation [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Now I would ask the speaker to ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u118	Mr President! I agree with Mr Kiljunen that we must also take into account the good lessons from neighbouring countries, if there is only economic competence. Of course, I would have asked the Minister what would be the cost of such a Swedish model, 15 hours of free early childhood education for all. This is certainly a good objective. I will certainly not deny it myself. However, I would like to return to this subjective right of children to early childhood education and day care throughout the day for every child. For example, on the grounds of unemployment, it is not a big idea, because it does not mean that if you have unemployment, long-term unemployment or even mental health problems in your family that your child’s place is not at home. We know that as many as 20 to 25 % of children and families with children have mental health problems at some point in their lives, but that does not make that family bad. In that sense, I would like to emphasise that the government is taking measures to support these families in living and living at home, and that is the direction we must go. We cannot outsource the care of children and the lives of families anywhere in the community to an increasing extent just because it is a good goal that everyone gets into day care for as long as they want. Secondly, here today, the opposition drew very much such pictures that if a child goes to full-time early education or day care, then children or their parents will be stigmatised. Where did such an idea come from? I'm sure we won't start branding any kids. Children do not label one another and parents do not label one another because of who takes the child there for how long. All of these speculations in my opinion are such so-called intimidation just and like the painting of threats without foundation. In that sense, we need to see that positive side. I recognise that this is a weakness, for example, in increasing the size of groups, and I will not swallow it very easily for a long time to come. But there are also positive things here, and there is a genuine search for savings from such measures that do not undermine the child’s interest in early childhood education, if that is what the situation requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u119	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u120	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Basic Education Act so as to allow for an increase in the maximum amount of fees for morning and afternoon activities for schoolchildren. The maximum fee for 570 hours would be raised from the current EUR 60 to EUR 120 and for 760 hours from the current EUR 80 to EUR 160 per month. The obligation not to charge or reduce the fee would be more stringent so that the change would not make it difficult for children of low-income families to participate in morning and afternoon activities. I consider this to be an important change. According to the proposal, the payment should be withheld or reduced if the maintenance obligation or the subsistence conditions of the guardian so require. The provisions on morning and afternoon activities for schoolchildren were introduced into the Basic Education Act in 2003, and this quality activity has been organised for schoolchildren since 2004. The organisation of the activities is voluntary for municipalities and the municipality itself decides to what extent it organises the activities. No index or other increases have been made in the payments and are lagging behind the overall cost development. Increasing the fees to better reflect the overall price development and the cost of providing the service will encourage municipalities to organise this service that is important to families with children in a quality manner. The proposed law would increase the annual revenue of municipalities by around EUR 18 million. In 2016, the impact on the finances of municipalities would be around EUR 7 million. The proposal has no economic impact on the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u121	Mr President! The increase in the fees for morning and afternoon activities for schoolchildren has been justified by the need to update them because, as far as I know, no changes have been made since 2006. However, it does not explain why the increase is being carried out in this way and so violently. In the worst case scenario, this proposal will even mean doubling payments from EUR 60 per month to EUR 120 and EUR 80 to 160. Such a drastic increase at once will hit very hard on low income families with children, who, according to the VM’s impact assessment, are, alongside pensioners, the population most hit by government cuts and savings. It is very likely that increases in municipalities will take place at very different levels, which will increase the regional inequality of families with children. At a time of financial challenge, it is also likely that in many municipalities the increase will be fully implemented. In some municipalities it is estimated that such a drastic increase in fees may well lead to children being excluded from morning and afternoon activities altogether. Morning and afternoon activities support the objectives of basic education and its purpose is to promote the well-being and inclusion of children. This is yet another source of savings for many who are concerned with the welfare of children. The savings from the '90s recession just hit children and families with children. In two years, some 10,000 clubs were closed in Finnish schools, and child allowances, parental allowances and the level of home care support were cut. Between 1999 and 2010, the need for remedial services rose clearly. We know that savings on children were very expensive in society. Then what choice do we have? In the view of the Left Alliance, the increase in payments is disproportionate when payments even double. Like day care fees, a step-by-step payment system could be introduced in morning and afternoon operations, taking into account the number of children in addition to the income level of the family. If payments are made without an explanation of the income of the parents, for example, the family of one working parent pays as much as the family of two working parents, and also the number of children in the family does not affect the amount of payments. This change will then be the most significant for example in the families of one parent who are not low income enough to be entitled to a reduction or non-recovery. Municipalities already have systems and practices to calculate early childhood education fees, taking into account, among other things, sister discounts and the financial situation of parents. I would ask the Minister why it would not have been possible to use the same model for morning and afternoon activities. Mr President! Finally, this proposal will increase the administrative burden for both older workers and municipal workers. In itself, a very good tightened record of non-payment, if it makes it difficult for the family to earn a living or to maintain a maintenance obligation, creates yet another need-tested element for the services of families with children, where practices vary greatly in different municipalities in the worst case and where labour is also needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u122	Let me make a few comments here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u123	Mr President! Indeed, this morning and afternoon activity, which has been achieved in Finland, is extremely welcome and good, and it is indeed something that will help those children’s lonely afternoons, and the lack of it has long been wondered about elsewhere in Europe. There are countries where, for example, leaving a child under 12 at home alone is already punishable. In that sense, it was very good to achieve this activity. But the fact that these payments are now going to be so heavily increased will certainly cause problems and incentive traps in many families even. In particular, in the case of a first-grader who many times needs that maximum amount of afternoon care, and when this payment should double in their case, has the government considered whether there could be any consideration of this level of family income in these payments, except that it has been said that there is a possibility of not levying the fee altogether, and who will ultimately take this decision to fully exempt this payment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u124	Mr President! Unfortunately, it has to be said that the problem with this proposal is precisely that these payments will even double. There would be an understanding of a more moderate increase, but that doubling seems too harsh when we consider the importance of this activity in the welfare of the child and also from the point of view of prevention. I personally think that the proposal may also conflict with the fact that at the same time the Minister has set up this working group to deal with the rise in the price of sports activities, and even though we are not talking about the same thing, the same thing goes on — we are creating elements that raise the prices of leisure activities so severely, and at the same time we are also concerned about this price increase. There is a certain disproportionateity here that may be difficult to understand from here. Then I think that this can also be linked to other surgeries. If we are talking about outreach youth work, which is being cut pretty hard, then quite a few municipalities have said that if they want to maintain it as a search for youth work, it easily means that the basic functions of the youth service will be cut off, and we will, as it were, create and strengthen the emphasis that we are only starting to act in a crisis situation and, in a way, it will weaken the preventive, normal basic activity, even if it is the most valuable and the most important basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u125	Mr President! Indeed, it is very unfortunate that these payments are rising so much. But I really wanted to bring one perspective to this debate, since, for example, these opening hours in the store are about to be freed up, and even before that, we have had, for example, people in the nursing sector who have small first- and second-grade children who are not in a way covered by any kind of treatment — the afternoon club ends around five, there is morning activity before that. We have children who are home alone until ten to eleven, first-graders, second-graders, and expect their mother or father to come home, and there is nothing available for them by this society. This is a very serious shortcoming, and I hope that the government will be able to consider that if something could be arranged for these children with this hundred and sixty now. Really sad examples are heard of crying children. The neighbor hears from behind the wall that the first-grader is crying again, and the mother works at the hospital or at the store. These are terrible cases. There shouldn't be any.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u126	Mr President! Morning and afternoon club activities are very important to many young schoolchildren in terms of well-being and safety. After a short school day, the child is better off in a guided club than at home alone. This bill now proposes a doubling of the fees for morning and afternoon clubs, and although the municipality will have the possibility of these allowances and the abolition of payment, there is a risk that the municipalities will not make use of this possibility. Not all parents and families can afford these increases in fees, and there is a risk that the demand for club activities will fall and that children will be more alone after school. Somehow it seems that the child’s best interests were forgotten in this bill and that the overall impact assessment has not been carried out. It is sad that Finland has been saying for years that we cannot afford to repeat the mistakes of the previous recession — because those mistakes have been paid for for decades mentally and economically — and now the combined effects of all these government decisions seem to result in the same mistakes being repeated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u127	Congressman Niikko, final reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u128	Mr President! The increase in the fees for morning and afternoon activities must be carefully assessed by the committees. In this sense, the savings target of 18 million, in which the municipalities' finances are being corrected – must be carefully considered whether it is worth this. This does not mean that these payments are up to double in the municipalities, because we are also the municipal decision-makers who sit here, and we now have to keep these same things on the table in our own municipalities so that officials do not automatically increase these fees even twice. Of course, it is most regrettable that it is the working family, which in many ways pay taxes in various ways, that these proposals are more and less far-reaching. In that sense, I hope that account will also be taken of the fact that one population does not have to pay for all this bad economic situation, such as families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u129	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u139	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u200	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u205	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u206	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u214	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u215	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u217	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u218	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u221	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u227	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u229	Mr President! When you look at this bill and read its background and arguments, the question arises: why has such a proposal been made? That is to say, the removal of the Ministry's confirmation from the regional plans and common municipal general plans. Is the need practical or rather ideological? The government justifies its proposal on an issue that everyone is in favour of, that is to say, the dismantling of red tape. But, in fact, the bureaucracy involved in the verification of the regional formulas has been very limited. On average, there have been four patterns per year covered by this verification procedure. According to the follow-up study, the confirmation of the formulas has worked well. The confirmation of the Ministry has ensured a good level and consistency of regional plans throughout the kingdom, that they comply with the laws in force and also with the national regional use targets. The Ministry has exercised its power with a great deal of restraint. When matters have been debated until the Supreme Administrative Court, the position of the Ministry of the Environment has won out of 36 in 30 cases. According to the Ministry's report, 80% of regional federations would be subject to the verification procedure. If the confirmation is withdrawn, the Ministry and Ely Centres should similarly consult and advise regional associations much more during the planning process. I think it is a very bad idea for regional associations to be able to decide on projects that have so far been cut off as illegal. This could become a worse environment and also a worse community structure. One typical example is the large shopping centers far away from the settlements. The Government's proposal refers to the Auvo Haapala report, published by the Ministry of the Environment in the beginning of the year, on the alternatives to the verification procedure for the regional plans, which, however, does not support the withdrawal of this verification procedure. According to the investigation, it is evident that the number of complaints would increase if the law enforcement were transferred from the Ministry. Complaint processing time could also be extended if it was handled by administrative law rather than by the Ministry. Mr President! Let me take one more timely example, for which this change in procedure could be very significant. It is a proposal for a regional plan for Rovaniemi and Eastern Lapland submitted by the Federation of Lapland last December. This formula includes the Vuotos pool run by certain parties in Lapland for decades, this time under the name of the Kemihaara multipurpose pool. This project has been rowed and felt differently for decades. In the early 1980s, the then Sorsa government decided that the pool project will now be buried once and for all, but less than ten years later the then Aho government decided to dig the Vuotos pool out of the mothbag and Kemijoki Oy initiated the pool project. The legal process lasted for about ten years and ended in 2002 when the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the water permit for the basin, stating that the pool would be contrary to the Water Act due to large and widespread adverse environmental impacts. Since then, Kemihaara bogs have also been connected to the EU Natura 2000 network of protected areas. In other words, this pool project has already been found to be in breach of both national and EU legislation on several occasions, but nevertheless the Federation of Lapland is presenting it in the Rovaniemi and Eastern Lapland regional plan. It would really be perverse if, for example, the ministry had no say in such projects. The decision-making process in regional planning can certainly be made smoother and it can certainly be found even smarter ways to do so, for example by reducing the statements made by ministries. And a formula may also be made valid in so far as it has not been appealed against.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u230	Madam President! The regional plans often contain land-use plans with very broad social dimensions, not only for the region and its people, the economy and the environment, but also for major national policies, such as energy policy, transport, just mentioned locations in shopping centres or mining, for example. Indeed, there is serious doubt here that this amendment to the law may lead to a radical weakening of the procedure for establishing the current land use and construction law to take account of the environmental impact of the supra-regional and project synergies and assess the legality of the law. The common general patterns of municipalities can also have an impact that is justified by the national perspective, as is the case under current legislation. Mr Hassi referred above to the general reasoning of the draft law, which states that the alternatives to the procedure for establishing the regional formulas have been examined in a study by the liquidator, Mr Haapala. What is remarkable is that the conclusions drawn by the liquidator have not been properly taken into account when the bill is presented. The liquidator put forward the following options: the maintenance of the current form of confirmation procedure as such or as developed in a form which would allow the State to intervene in the regional plans drawn up and adopted in breach of the provisions of the law, as well as the abolition of the verification procedure as such. The conclusion of the study was that the current verification procedure should be replaced by a procedure whereby the Ministry of the Environment would continue to be entitled, under the conditions laid down by law, to consider a regional plan that is relevant or problematic for national objectives. We have just heard a very descriptive, long-term example of what could happen if the Ministry of the Environment did not do this law enforcement in its role of strengthening regional patterns. For these reasons, Mr President, I am not at all convinced that the draft law as a whole would be a good one, but I would have liked to see the present procedure for the confirmation of the regional formulas maintained, or even the alternative, as recommended by the liquidator, from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u231	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Land Use and Building Act in such a way that regional plans and common municipal general plans no longer need to be confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment. The proposal also aims to shorten the decision-making process of regional planning. In recent times it has taken far too long for the Ministry of the Environment to process and strengthen many regional and semi-regional plans. This Government proposal is a measure in accordance with the Government Programme. The proposal speeds up decision-making and appeal related to regional planning and the joint general planning of municipalities. This will therefore also reduce bureaucracy. This government proposal increases the responsibility of regions and municipalities in planning, and the fact is that it is there that people know best how to develop the region and what the needs of the region are. The Government's proposal also increases the need for interactive cooperation between the authorities in drawing up the formulas, and in the future the Ministry will be consulted during the planning process. This government proposal will also provide savings in the administration and better targeting of scarce resources. This waiving of regional plans is the first zoning issue that has been decided upon as a government proposal. The next issue for Parliament is the transfer of power from ely centres to municipalities, which is now taking place in the consultation round. These are a good start to move decision-making closer to local and regional decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u232	Mr President! All in all, regional planning plays a central role in the regional management of land use and in the concreteisation of national and regional objectives. The smoothness and urgency of regional planning lay the foundation for the functioning of the entire planning system and the implementation of the formula hierarchy. The content solutions to be made in the regional planning plan affect the ability to manage regional land use in a sustainable way, and successful choices in land use require a good preparation process, where both studies and planning are properly targeted and limited. All in all, interaction must also work well between the different parties. In establishing regional patterns, the procedure for establishing the Ministry of the Environment is actually slow and does not contribute to the functioning of the formula hierarchy and to the development of communities. Complaint processing times in the Supreme Administrative Court are also excessively long. This verification procedure itself has contributed to the fact that the prior guidance has not worked well for the regional federations. It is therefore important that this bill be implemented and that the procedure for the adoption of the law should be abolished as a whole. A bit of a similar measure was taken back when the obligation to subject municipal plans was completely waived and there were no problems in this respect. In other words, this draft law is sensible and all in all OK, but there has also been some preliminary information on the post-legislative regulation, and it has to be said that it should be clarified in committee, because it is clear that there will now be an extra round of consultations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u233	Madam President! Personally, I do not consider this proposal so clear and necessarily as one that would contribute to this; on the contrary, what Mr Hassi listed with great merit, these are also the concerns that I have. Indeed, regional plans would no longer be strengthened in the Ministry of the Environment, and this, of course, perhaps in the light of honesty, will increase the power of the provinces above all. Nor would I be so sure that this would increase the administration. In fact, I wonder very much how much this will burden administrative rights when, for example, appeals are transferred there. I am equally concerned about the fact that the state administration will no longer have any part or lot in the land use of the provinces. I do not think this is a good development. Indeed, the proposals made by the liquidator and many other experts have already been mentioned, and I do not consider that to be a good administration either.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u234	Mr President! Actually, as a reply to Mrs Korhonen: I was in Parliament when the Land Use and Building Act was amended in such a way that until then the Ministry of the Environment was removed from most of the plans. However, this was not the only change that was made at the time, but, first of all, the amendment of the law at the time clearly compared with the previous law specified the requirements for the content of the formula. In addition, this procedure, this process of participation and interaction, which has then brought about the possibility for local authorities to participate in the debate and, above all, to know what is going on, even at the time when the basic ideas of the formula are planned. In addition, the national targets for the use of the regions came to guide the content of the formulas. And then, as a sort of assortment of legality control, the then regional environmental centres, the current ely centres, have the right to appeal. Well, we know that the government is also planning to abolish this right of appeal to the Ely Centres. I regret that, too, because I do not think it is a good thing at all that the legality of the formulas is left to the vigilance of the active citizens and their legal knowledge and to what legal assistance they may then be able to afford.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u235	Mr President! To this end, Mr Hassi's attention to the complaints made by the authorities, and I personally do not think that it is a very good administrative behaviour for the authorities to complain about the decisions of another authority and thereby slow down the planning processes, among other things. But, in fact, to this speech by Mr Razmyar: He said in some way that he does not like the growing power of the regional councils in this zoning process. As far as I am concerned, what is bad is the fact that the provinces decide on matters in their own territory. I understand in that way that when the powers of decision are increased to the provinces and regions, hardly the provinces make any worse decision than the ministries make for those regions in their own region.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u236	Mr President! This is actually a response to Mr Korhonen. It is not true that the authorities complain about decisions taken by other authorities only to slow down a process. But it is true that, for example, in my own country, which happens to be a neighbouring region of Mr Korhonen, there are many examples of the fact that the complaints made by the former Regional Environment Agency or the current Ely Centre have resulted in the fact that the prepared formula has been found unlawful and that the formula has been returned to the preparation process. You do not think, Mr Korhonen, that even what I have heard is sometimes used in some provincial bodies and municipalities, that if no one complains about the formula within the time limit of the appeal, it will be valid despite all its possible errors and shortcomings in law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u237	Mr President! In this Chamber, hardly anyone in itself wants to remove the zoning power of municipalities and provincial unions. The question is whether this power will be exercised in a way that corresponds to the legislation that this Parliament has enacted. I believe that the legislation on zoning, including its contents, should actually be binding. If such judicial control by the authorities is removed, the question arises as to why we are now going to legislate here on land-use planning if enforcement of their laws is left solely to the activeness and expertise of the citizens. This is very judicious but necessary in itself, the Ministry of the Environment's law enforcement of regional plans. This is demonstrated by the fact that 30 out of 33 cases have won the position of the Ministry of the Environment in KHO. The same applies to the right of appeal of the Ely Centres for municipal planning decisions, which are also a matter of legality. As a rule, complaints from the Ely Centres have been successful, i.e. the courts have also found that their judicial review of legality has been necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u238	Madam President! In a few speeches here in the Chamber, there has been a suspicion that the role of the state and the Ministry of the Environment will be removed in the regional planning process. This is not the case, because the ministry will continue to be consulted during the planning process and, as the role of the state changes, the obligation to take account of the use targets of national regions will not be removed from the planning process, but will remain there. The purpose of this government proposal is that regional councils can better develop general planning in the direction they see best in the region and that those planning and implementations also serve the specific characteristics and characteristics of the region. In recent years, it has been important to note that the Ministry of the Environment has often failed to take account of the special needs of the provinces throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u239	Mr President! Mr Torniainen's last speech was excellent, and he raised the problems that all in all are here. I would like to repeat that speech by Mrs Torniainen, which I said earlier, namely the smoothness and urgency of regional planning, will provide the basis for the functioning of the entire planning system and for the implementation of the hierarchy of formulas. What Mrs Halmemenpää said in that regard is that I do not think that the authorities are complaining about each other's decisions in order to slow down, among other things, these formula processes, I have to say, Mr Halmemenpää, that I seriously doubt that this has often happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u240	Madam President! Despite Mr Korhonen's suspicion that the authorities are only complaining in order to slow the process down, it is worth noting, however, the fact that Mr Hassi has just stated here that most of the formal complaints from previous environmental centres and existing ely centres have led to the finding of an illegal formula at different court levels. It is not a question of slowing down, but of the intention that formulas and formula processes are not only smooth and fast, but also legal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u241	Mr President! Representative Halmemenpää, with great friendship: I certainly did not say that the authorities complain about the decisions of other authorities only to slow down the planning process. I said that this has often been the case, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u242	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u243	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u244	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u245	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u246	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u247	For table setting, the 22nd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u248	For table setting, the 23rd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u249	The 24th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u250	The 25th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u251	The 26th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u252	The 27th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u253	For table setting, the 28th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-10-ps-61.u254	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 November 2015.
