ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u1	The 2nd item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of key projects and reforms. Group speeches after the Prime Minister's presentation may take up to 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button. Let's start the conversation, Prime Minister Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u2	Mr President, ärade talman! "In 2025, Finland is anew, intermediate and safe country in which every experiment can be important. There is trust in our society." This is how we define the vision of Finland’s future in a crystallized way in the Government Programme. The Government Programme is a strategic change programme. At the heart of it is the vision I mentioned for 2025 for Finland. From the state of play to reaching the vision, the Government has defined Finland's ten-year targets, priorities and then the objectives of the Government term. The Government’s objectives have been defined as key projects that are being pursued with determination. In order to implement major projects and reforms, the Government has drawn up a detailed action plan which we are discussing today. Mr President! There is a major change in the way things work. Key projects are mainly cross-sectoral and require a close collegial working method. The main projects are aimed at achieving the goal of the Government term. This has nothing to do with patching up the surgeries. The Government started its own reform work on the Government Programme and working methods. Finland’s problems are such that government work must be more ambitious than before. Strategic management is already implemented in almost all areas of life. Now was the time to bring it into politics. The Government Programme has deliberately forgotten the boundaries of government. We can better focus on the big things and do them properly. The number of ministers has decreased, and the government acts as a team. The communication debate on the Government's strategic government programme took place on 2 June in Parliament. Since then, the Government has drawn up a budgetary plan for the parliamentary term, a draft budget for 2016 and an implementation plan for the key projects and reforms that are now under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u14	The Finnish Parliament Group, represented by Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u15	Madam President! The situation in Finland is serious in many ways. That is why the government has taken decisive steps to reform our society to meet the challenges of the 21st century. The Finnish welfare society must also be preserved in the future. I would now like to highlight a number of essential projects to achieve this objective. An important project can be considered to be all those actions that promote the supply of work, entrepreneurship and diversification of the business structure. We need to make work pay, and we need to get exports going. This will strengthen public finances and increase the employment rate, which cannot be underestimated for our economy. To achieve these goals, structural reforms are needed on many fronts across administrative boundaries. As regards exports, the Government invests in increasing Finland's export opportunities in developing countries' markets by capitalising, among other things, the Finnfund Development Finance Company. In 2016–2018 special experts in commercial sectors will be employed in delegations in key areas for Finland's exports in order to increase Finland's export potential. The Government's efforts to boost Finland's exports are therefore significant. Mr President! The creation of new jobs in Finland is also supported by other key government projects, which the Finns of Finland greet with joy. A good example of this can be mentioned, in particular, the key project to promote carbon-free, clean and renewable energy and the circular economy. The greatest potential is seen in increasing the production and technology of liquid biofuels and biogas. At the same time, the nutrient and energy self-sufficiency of agriculture will be increased. Our healthy forests are the key resource for this work. The use of wood will be diversified and the use of economic forests will be made more efficient, without forgetting the environment. The Group of the Finnish People's Party sees that all of this is also well supported by the Government's decision to take corrective measures to the transport network. Mr President! The Finns are pleased that regional language experiments and the promotion of educational exports have been included in key projects in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Instead of studying another national language, it is possible to study another language. True Finns consider this a good first step towards the full voluntary nature of the Swedish language.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u22	Madam President! The Government will fix Finland’s structures and economy with a strong grip. The last few weeks have been marked by a debate about what is being taken away from anyone, but it is not the whole picture. The Government will reform Finland comprehensively. That's the only way to build a foundation for a better tomorrow and a new rise. This is also what the key projects are all about. The Government Programme has set ambitious targets for both the public sector, public services and digitisation of the private sector. It is particularly promising that user orientation is present in all projects. We must now ensure that digitalisation does not remain an internal activity of the administration and that it is not ruined by slow schedules. In order to achieve this goal, the government needs strong political leadership. One of the most pressing problems in Finland is the unfortunate employment situation. Against this, the government is taking a coherent line of work. The dismantling of incentive traps, lowering the employment thresholds and modernising employment services are important employment-enhancing reforms. The most important entity in this area is increasing local reconciliation. The Finnish labour market simply needs to be made more effective. Better economic and employment development over the coming decades will also be supported by a one-off focus on reducing road repair debt. Mr President! In the leading project of customer-oriented services, it is great to expand the piloting and use of the service voucher. This is a good experience in my hometown of Jyväskylä. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party wants Finns to receive high-quality social welfare and health care services. When people are given the freedom to choose, a positive incentive effect is created to improve the quality of services. It's for the benefit of everyone. With regard to the key project on health promotion, I would like to highlight the objective of an hour's exercise per day. Its importance for the well-being of children and young people is far more valuable than the amount of money to be spent on it. Increasing physical activity strengthens man’s overall well-being. Moving together is also a good way to increase social cohesion and reduce loneliness. The Finnish school needs to be updated to the present. Comprehensive school must provide digital children with the capacity for life, and that is where the knowledge and skills required by the digital world are at the heart of it. The key projects for skills and training reform will create the conditions for this by 300 million. Research and innovation will also receive more resources, for example, in the key project of clean solutions and bioeconomy. Mr President! One of the key projects is the responsibility for the environment, which we want to keep clean for future generations. For example, the Coalition Party's parliamentary group wishes to draw attention to the objective of halving the domestic use of imported oil during the 2020s and of abandoning the use of coal. This is a very ambitious objective, but it is worth pursuing for both environmental and economic reasons. Pure nature is important in itself. It is also an image and an opportunity for economic activity, for example in the field of sustainable tourism. The Government is committed to securing the level of nature conservation by means of a key project in nature policy. Finland will receive a new national park to celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2017. Export-driven growth will be promoted by strengthening the Team Finland network. The well-chosen representations around the world increase commercial and economic expertise to support the creation of stores. Deregulation of unnecessary standards and regulations will also receive strong, strong support from the parliamentary group. Mr President! Although the financial allocations are significant, the key projects are ultimately not about money. The most important thing is what is new and how it actually changes. Many of these measures will trigger new developments. At best, they are ways to revolutionize thinking and doing things. The Coalition Party has stressed that these efforts must be directed towards the creation of a real new one and the reform of Finland. Finland needs to be updated to a new level and Finns need to be given better opportunities to compete and survive in a changing world. It's the whole idea of the top projects. We will, of course, continue to insist on this. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party fully supports the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u23	Mr President! We have heard beautiful words about the top projects at the mouth of the government. But what is the truth? Perhaps an impartial picture is given by the foreign observer to whom these projects have been presented: "We do not believe that the package will significantly increase growth in the medium term. We believe that the wider reduction in public finances planned by the government will overshadow these initiatives."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u30	Mr President! Reforms are needed now if ever. The Green Parliamentary Group wants to reform Finland. We believe that the government has good objectives. We support the aim of preventing poverty, inequality and exclusion, improving skills, promoting health and increasing employment. However, the final measure of goals is how they eventually appear in people’s everyday lives. Unfortunately, we do not believe that the means put forward will be sufficient or that we will not be able to do enough. A billion dollars for major projects is a lot of money, but if scattered to many places, it will not achieve a great deal. Many of the reforms mainly address the problems caused by the cutbacks. If you cut too much and the wrong places and the leaky part of a lead project, you shouldn't expect a miracle cure. Sometimes the problem is lack of ambition. For example, the implementation plan for major projects provides for some twenty new studies. It's nice to find out first and then it's done. However, the decision on the study and the report on "implementing" has generally not revolutionised Finland. For example, the government intends to investigate changes in unemployment security. Even without studies, it could be possible to become a self-employed person rather than an inactivity. The government wants to intensify its obligations to accept work. I do not think it makes sense for the bureaucrat to decide what job each unemployed person will be assigned to. Those resources could also be used to ensure that the basic income experiment is carried out well. In it people are guided into activity by an economic incentive rather than a government agency. Another example is the promotion of women's employment: The Board of Directors strives to share the costs of parenting. That's good, but you might want to put your ambition on higher ground. The 6+6+6 model would also increase the well-being of fathers by offering a more genuine opportunity for time with children. The employment of mothers would be improved by offering them the option of working part-time at least when children were small. Reducing poverty and inequality is also an important objective. However, according to a study by the Ministry of Finance, government cuts are hard on families with children, students and pensioners. Could the key projects have included a fairer burden sharing? Would it have been possible to find less bad alternatives? In particular, it feels like patching up is the fact that education is named a top project when it is cut by billions of dollars. In the end, however, people are making reforms. For example, a teacher’s creativity can be a bit of a problem if the day-to-day is simply to cope with the workload. Another example of patching is the establishment of a national park, of which we are delighted. However, the smile is quickly resembling a reduction in the budget for nature conservation and a reduction in environmental protection standards. There is therefore a contradiction between the cuts and the reforms. It is not a necessity, and it is not because it has been decided to adjust public finances, but because of what has been decided. Mr President! If we want digitalisation to be a Finnish success story, we have to start with schools at all levels. It's not about giving a child a tablet in his hand and saying he's playing with it. We are talking about new reading skills and completely new methods of learning. It is not easy to develop them on a continuous basis. We're gonna need a lot of ideas. The Green Parliamentary Group supports the Government's idea of increasing the culture of experimentation in Finland. Nokia was a big lucky break, but I don't think it'll happen again as it is. We need a large number of small, agile entrepreneurs — and an attempt and also a mistake. Public procurement, in particular, should separate itself from the idea that only a large electronic service monument can be beautiful. It is excellent that the Government promotes the use of domestic renewable energy. There are more ways to do this. For example, in electricity consumption, net billing would mean that the household could sell renewable energy to the grid when there is a lot of it available and take electricity from the grid when it is needed. The invoice or compensation would come from the difference. On the other hand, for energy-saving renovations by households, a private household allowance or a small fund could be introduced. Yesterday, the Greens announced their options as key projects. Our heads are energy renovation, basic income and social security reform, and quality education, smart communities planning and good integration of immigrants. Environmentally-friendly solutions would be made so easy, cheap and fun for people and businesses that they would be admired from abroad — just as Finnish education has been admired. We'd be considered a pioneer. In the reformed Finland, immigrants integrate and participate in the welfare of our ageing population. Integration prevents exclusion and is also economically wise. In renewable Finland, the ways of consumption, production and movement of cities and communities are also on a more sustainable basis and new business, exports and growth have been created to promote smart communities. Some of our goals are shared by the government. Hopefully, the government can also consider making use of them. Finland now needs a critical debate and an effort to cooperate. This is an opportunity for both of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u31	Mr President! The Government has directed its key projects and funding towards them. At the outset, one wonders where exactly this funding comes from. It is also worth wondering what the purpose of the key projects is. For example, during its term of office, the government will cut as much as 3 billion and then give back a tenth of this as a top priority. The main projects are temporary, but the cuts are permanent. How can this kind of activity become the leading country in modern and inspiring learning, as the government sincerely hopes? Mr President! The Left Alliance genuinely wants to invest in the future. One of the most important means is to ensure that no young people are excluded and that everyone is given a place of work, training, training or rehabilitation according to their abilities. Now the government has renamed the Youth Guarantee as a Community guarantee and at the same time cuts more than half of its funding, even though unemployment is at its peak. At the same time, the Finnish export industry coughs. This can only be achieved through new innovations, research and product development. What's the government doing? Cut off almost a third of Tekes' operating money. Cut the colleges. Cut out competitive research funding because you want to direct funding to the sectors you choose. Innovations are not forced to emerge. That is why it is really difficult to understand the logic of the government in this economic situation, where education and research should be invested. For example, flexible learning paths, lifelong learning and well-functioning adult education are ways of creating innovation, employment and economic growth through education and training. Mr President! Greater investment in employment is absolutely essential during the current period of major unemployment. We hope that the parliamentary working group will prepare for the basic income test. The level of basic income must be sufficiently high and the number of pilots sufficiently diverse to achieve comparable results. Instead of the government's planned cane employment, the focus should be on new ways of more flexible use of labour market support to support employment. For example, the EUR 300 component of unemployment security launched during the last government period has encouraged thousands of unemployed people to work part-time. In Sweden, both labour productivity and well-being at work have increased in workplaces where six-hour working days have been tested on the previous salary. This should also be the case in Finland. By reducing the working day, it is also possible to share work with more workers and reduce unemployment. We are therefore proposing an experiment to reduce working time in key projects. Mr President! When the government created its leading projects, nothing was yet known about the scale of the current refugee crisis. In the current situation, integration policy should definitely be one of the government's key projects. It is good that the government acted, as Mr Sarkkinen said earlier, and set up a centre for the organisation of asylum seekers in Tornio. It is in the interests of both asylum seekers and Finland that all asylum seekers should be registered immediately upon entry. However, investments should be greatly increased, for example, in language training for immigrants, in the organisation of conversion training and in support of children and young people who come alone. Integration measures should start already during the examination of the asylum application. Instead of the government's going to be a minister, As planned by Mäntylä, putting people in a position of inequality contrary to the Constitution, it should make integration an integral part of education and employment policy. Several studies show that the euro invested in integration pays off itself. It would therefore be good if all parliamentary parties could come to an agreement on how much additional resources are needed for integration over the coming years. Finally, Mr President, the Left Alliance therefore sees the need to invest in education, research, youth guarantees, employment, well-being at work and integration. All of these are investments in the future. We would finance these investments, for example, by introducing new means to combat the shadow economy, by blocking tax leaks in tax havens and by creating a more radical progression in capital taxation. In addition, these key knowledge-oriented projects would reverse employment growth and generate tax revenues for the state. Surgery policy is not the only option. Surgery only leads to new cutting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u32	Swedish Parliament Group, representative Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u33	Irade the Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen ställer sig en aning tudelad till regeringens spetsprojekt. Å ena sidan vill vi ge regeringen erkännande för att det bland project finns en hel del mycket bra förslag. Å andra sidan verkar vis av dessa project dessvärre handla mer om att trixa med pengar än verkliga satsningar på något nowt. Det är värt att säga ännu en gång — inte ens med den vildaste fantasin kan man man man att spetsprojekten inom utbildningen komenserar de masssiva nedskärningar som regeringen samtidigt föreslår. Det finns också ännu en del frågetecken kring hur regeringen egentligen har tänkt finansiera alla dessa project. Och är vivi av project helt enkelt sådana som borde skotas inom ramen för den ordinarie verksamheten, utan att de skulle behövas kläs i spetskläder?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u34	Madam President! The Christian Democrats appreciate the government's efforts to find new ways of improving competitiveness, modernising society and creating new growth. We want to be a part of this work. The best contribution of the Government’s key projects is the goals set for the bio- and circular economy and the efforts to improve the competitiveness of companies. We agree with the government that this is the way to the future success and growth of our country. The Christian Democrats promote a social market economy in Finland and Europe, where the freedom and responsibility of individuals and entrepreneurship are emphasised and where the profits of the economy are used in a humane way to increase social justice and well-being. In assessing key projects and reforms, we will first and foremost look at the fairness, honesty and consistency of the government's actions. For example, reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities is a good goal, but at the same time it must be remembered that a significant part of the obligations of municipalities guarantees the vital rights and services of the most vulnerable. I don't want you breaking the rules to mean leaving anyone behind. Madam President! Finland is facing a new one. We need to make some changes. In 2003, Germany was in a similar situation and started a work reform. It was launched by the Social Democrats and completed by the Christian Democrats. The change involved all the major players in society. It took me 12 years. At first the trade union movement opposed, and at the end it thanked the change. First, unemployment grew, eventually decreased. First the wages were springing, then the wages were rising. The unemployment rate in Germany is now around 6.5%. Can we learn something from how Germany got out of trouble? Mr President! Let's face it: this government has more key projects than ministers. Whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, the future will show. Sometimes less would be more and more would be less. Given the abundance of major projects, it would perhaps be more appropriate to talk about the implementation programme of the Government Programme or rather about the target programme. The action plan remains strategic, even visional, because the projects only make savings elsewhere. The objectives set are mainly good, even excellent, and it is easy to agree with them. But can they be achieved? The Prime Minister's announcement raises more questions than answers, so here are a few questions: Health and well-being are promoted as a key project in well-being. However, next year's budget cuts 4.2 million from the National Institute for Health and Welfare, 8 million from the Institute for Occupational Health and nearly EUR 4 million from specific projects. Central government funding for health research will also decrease by 6.7 million, and municipal projects will be cut by EUR 5.4 million. At the same time, 23.5 million will be invested in key projects and it will look like a big investment, but in fact it has been cut out of other welfare work. The Government invests in digitalisation in its goals. But who makes digital learning materials, services and learning environments? They're not born on a voluntary basis. Are open development environments used, are private companies bought, or are the teachers themselves making the changes? The action plan should answer the question: how and under whose direction? The Government wants to increase apprenticeship training for young people. In the budget, however, the government is cutting the funds for apprenticeships by EUR 3.4 million. The aim is also to strengthen outreach youth work, but the budget will reduce the budget by EUR 5.5 million from youth workshops and outreach youth work. By what means will the government strengthen innovation and research in higher education and industry? The budget will reduce key R & D appropriations by EUR 163 million. In this sense, cutting research is contrary to the idea of leading projects. Madam President! It is good that goals have been set, great goals have been set. Would it have been good, however, to choose the projects as the top projects that the government really wants to implement and to ensure that they are implemented by allocating the necessary funding? President! The path of success and growth in our country seems to be built in the air. I very much hope that we are wrong about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u35	I ask the participants to sign up by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u36	Mr President! I can see that many have not been familiar enough with this document, which is a magnificent document. Good things came out of this conversation. Note that the Greens really have their own written key projects, and the Christian covenant had an upbuilding attitude. However, Mr President, Mr Haraka's speech has shown that the former deputies' party is very inconvenient. It had this kind of little bit of throwing, but no real top projects. Standard & Poor's really lowered the Finnish credit rating when you were on the board. For four years you had the Minister of Finance — no major projects, no reforms came. During your period, Finland took the most debt from the euro countries in relative terms, and at the same time the economic development was the worst. Is this your top priority? If it is your top project, it will ruin the Finnish welfare society. I therefore call on you, the Social Democrats, to come on the road to reform, to build, to safeguard the Finnish welfare society. We are now no longer, as was the case in your speech, Mr Harakka, making mockery of the self-employed people working in rural areas. I really hope that the SDP will join us in reforming Finland and that such dream nonsense will end here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u37	Madam President! The Left Alliance and the Greens talked about this basic income experiment, which has been in the objectives and programmes of both parties for a very long time. However, when you were on the board, no experiment was carried out. Now be glad that even this government has some kind of experiment The same parties and then the RKP talked about these growing numbers of immigrants who are actually asylum seekers. According to current information, about 70 percent of them are being turned from the country and perhaps more when these good blackmails by the government
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u41	Mr President! I too may have to join in some criticism of what the SDP has to say. In my opinion, Mr Harakka's style was rather poor, because this is actually about the future of Finland. What you said about your options — I do not think that it is going to lead to any more export-driven growth than what you have been saying here for a long time. Perhaps enough for the Greens to have good top projects, but on the other hand they cost EUR 2 billion, so Finland would be in the deficit procedure quite quickly with your projects. Left Alliance: well, you want to do less work, we here want to do more work so that perhaps it will compensate for it. But I would actually like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen that, when it is of the utmost importance for the well-being of the future, the fact that Finnish digital young people will continue to receive the proper education that motivates them, and that is why we will certainly have to reform our future teacher training enormously, so how do you see this great challenge now taking place with these resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u42	Thank you! It is nice to hear that the speech attracted attention, but I would suggest a new initiative for the government, which would have been understood. And this, in particular, to Mr Ala-Nissila: I put forward five rational projects to ensure genuine growth. So I have to repeat what I have just listed and ask the question again that was not answered. It is: Will you take the hand of cooperation, will we make real growth together in Finland? First up is the energy renovation. This means that research already in place will be used as long as you do not completely destroy this innovation system. We already have enormous expertise in smart electricity networks, in the creation of decentralised production, in the new renewable energy market. If a smart state could change its energy structure so that it becomes a reference to Finnish top expertise, this climate technology could be sold worldwide to a very high level of envy. The second — and this was in fact already done, Mr Eerola, during the last period, but you have given it up. Finland was at the forefront of preventing the shadow economy and tax avoidance at the time. Now the government has cut 99 police officers from the fight against the black economy, and in it the EUR 20 million investment will bring back EUR 200 million. The administration register legislation, what is planned, hides ownership. Finland must be at the forefront of transparency. Thirdly, this extremely important Arctic economy. One cannot help but wonder that the Prime Minister has not noticed what is the most vital question for Northern Finland, and the University of Oulu also has a huge amount of Arctic expertise. Fourth, the growth programme for services. The increase in productivity in the services sector is extremely important. And this enhancement of integration. Mr Eerola is the only one here who does not understand the difference between an immigrant and an asylum seeker. There's got to be an action plan... ( President MariaLohela : Representative Harakka, now in time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u45	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Eerola's basic income. I would like to say that it was not entirely green that it has not progressed in Finland before, but it has been at the heart of our policy for a long time. We are delighted that the popular popularity of basic income has increased and is now receiving more response from government parties. I hope you will also take us along when the experiment is being carried out, and we will be able to plan it together. The second comment, which relates to this issue, is that, from time to time, within the government parties, there has been a flash of the substitution of labour market support and unemployment benefits in different ways, and that would be contrary to the basic income ideology. I am sure that this debate will still have to take place, in which direction the government will eventually go — hopefully in that basic income direction. So far, you've shown positive signals. But the real question I would like to put to the corresponding minister is that you are talking about creating a new support system for renewable energy. It is indeed necessary, and I hope that this will be done, but I would like to ask about the timetable, because, for example, municipal power plants and companies are investing in the energy sector with a very long foresight, and if something is to be done now, then the decisions should actually be taken right away. I would like to ask: is it possible to speed up the renewal of this system in order to speed up the pace of support for renewables in Finland as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u46	Madam President! Much was expected of the speech by Sipilä, and in particular one thing, namely how these key projects are to be financed. In your speech you mentioned that these will be financed within the framework of the framework and the budgetary plan. It's not very concrete yet. But in view of what has been said in the past, it appears that there is to be a sale of state companies in a situation where the rate of return on state companies is many times higher than that on fixed rate loans. This makes no sense in economic policy. It's kind of like letting you in your pants in the cold: for a while it warms you up, and after that the national property has been smoothed out. This, Prime Minister, is something you should now clarify in this debate. Madam President! When the government decided on these drastic cuts and on the other hand on the key projects, the current refugee situation was not known. The government should live in time and take into account changes, and the integration of asylum seekers and immigrants should definitely be a key project. The establishment of a facility centre in the north, which Mr Sarkkinen put forward at the beginning of September, is an important and good decision. It is good for both asylum seekers and Finland. It should be combined with an immediate examination of the skills and training of asylum seekers in order to ensure that they have access to the labour market as quickly as possible. Not all asylum seekers will stay in Finland, not all will have such a need for asylum, but many will stay, and the sooner they are integrated, the better. Therefore, all parliamentary parties should jointly reflect on how we will improve integration in the future, together consider the resources and means. Here I appeal to Prime Minister Sipilä: take this integration as a top priority project and involve everyone in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u47	Madam President! The Government's top project list contains many good things. There are many things that should already be in normal ministries, such as the reform of the labour administration, the promotion of local reconciliation, and the digitisation of public services. The desire to reform child and family services should also be part of the normal development of ministries. The question therefore arises as to why these should now be worn separately in top project clothing. It is good, of course, that it will be done because, as I said, there are a lot of good things here, but why in this particular form, when it is still quite normal development activity? Prime Minister, I too am calling, just as Mr Arhinmäki did, for the government's intention to finance these key projects, because it is still unclear. Are we going to sell government property? In that case, what property? Is this about shares in listed companies, or is this about other assets? And is it a sensible policy to sell assets that also give us dividends at this stage when the state does not have that good income? Then I would also like to emphasise again that we have a new situation in the country now. There will be asylum seekers, there will certainly be a lot of them here, and it would be very important for us, as a society, to do all we can to ensure that these people are well integrated and that we welcome them. That is why I hope that the government will now actually invest in this integration in a good way and that the government will also contribute to smoothing these processing times, that people do not have to wait more than two years before they know whether or not to stay.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u48	Mr President! The government itself has said that it is implementing the government programme through key projects and reforms, so these should be viewed as a whole, as well as all the money that is in the budget book and the money that has been mentioned in these key projects. And no matter how constructive the angle of approach is, when you read the text as it is, you cannot escape the idea that in many places money is simply transferred from one sector to another, refocused, more stringent control is taken over where it is spent. It seems as if the government, for example, has lost confidence in Finnish science and university culture, as if they themselves could not assess what kind of science and research must be carried out at each moment. Now the government takes this money away from science and then, at its own discretion, allocates it to a particular sector. This is admittedly a new practice, but it cannot be avoided thinking whether there is now a major motion of censure between the government and Finnish university life. Government reforms undermine basic security, unemployment security, municipal services, education, research, scientific conditions, development cooperation and the purchasing power of citizens. Nor can we avoid asking how constructive a reform of this kind will eventually lead to. There must be a right to have an answer to these questions, not just a programme in response, but quite the right answers, which is behind these plans. The Prime Minister mentioned here in a speech that we should put the balance sheet to work. A great idea, but the question arises again, as has been said here, whether it means an ever greater sale of Finnish business abroad. These questions are legitimate, honest, and we are also waiting for honourable answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u49	Mr President! In its Action Plan, the Government presents not only its key projects but also key reforms. In his presentation, the Prime Minister stated that the government is now preparing a reform of social welfare and health services in such a way that the responsibility for organising social and health services is transferred from the municipality to the regional self-government unit. This means a huge change in the status, tasks and also in the economy of municipalities. At the same time, when the government is reforming the regional government, it is open to what other tasks are transferred from the municipalities. This process of change is a huge opportunity for Finland, but it also carries great risks. It is unclear what kind of process and method of working this big change, except for the social reform, the whole regional administrative entity, will be carried through. For the government itself, there seems to be some confusion about what to focus on and what to prioritise. With the reforms of social and regional government, the status of municipalities will change dramatically. After the reform, the role of municipalities is quite different from what it is now. In view of this, it seems strange that the government, as the legacy of the previous government, announces that it is working to reduce the municipal tasks by one billion. It seems that this reform is being taken away as if nothing were going to happen in the social reform. After all, the social welfare reform reduces the tasks of municipalities by many billions. When it comes to reducing the tasks of municipalities, there is no mention of the huge change in the status of municipalities following the social welfare reform. This is special. More up-to-date is a government reform called the Municipality of the Future. The narrow text, a few lines here, tells us that the aim is to clarify the role and tasks of municipalities and the relationship with the emerging self-government regions. So here we are on the map, but the text is very thin. You would think that the question of the future of municipalities would be extremely important for the centre-driven government. It now seems that the municipalities are left in full uncertainty about their future. After the reform, will they have tasks other than the beach and the museum? This should be clarified. You cannot decide on a social welfare reform without knowing at the same time what the municipality of the future will be. Social welfare reform is also inevitably a municipal reform. Good government, what is the municipality of the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u50	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the government's top projects, it has to be said, but the problem with the overall picture is that they are a drop in the ocean, especially when there are larger cuts in a number of issues and then it is said that the major social tasks that are being cut are being reformed by the key projects. It was not very easy to say to university researchers and teachers or other professionals working in education that if the group sizes increase, the conditions for teaching and research will be reduced. But, Mr President, I am particularly concerned about one issue on which Parliament has not been able to discuss: The government talks about investing in clean technology and renewable energy, but in the summer we saw a very sad farce about how the government was prepared to promote the Russian Rosatom nuclear power project with Fennovoima in Pyhäjoki. This is where Minister Rehn first announced that the timetable will be in place, by the end of June the owners will have to be clear, but a few weeks later, even though the shell company Migrid left out, there was yet another time to look for new owners. It tells us that, for some reason, the government attaches particular importance to promoting this project. Why is this so that the government was prepared to stretch its own timetables and those approved by Parliament and to place its authority so forcefully in order to get the Rosatom reactor in Finland? And I would also like to ask how we can make a credible contribution to renewable energy and energy renovation in Finland and achieve a truly modern, forward-looking energy structure that promotes energy efficiency, low-emissions, domestic renewable energy, will provide export jobs if national municipal companies and state-owned companies are committed billions of euros for years and decades to the uncertain Rosatom nuclear project. Your corresponding key project speaks of some tens of millions of euros. Western Europe is investing in energy transformation. What is the Finnish Government doing? Russian nuclear power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u51	Mr President! "The provision of a plaster for a limb and an amputee",as well as the comments made That sums up very well the problems of this government's key project package. Development is in itself a worthwhile objective, but at the same time it is clear that it will not in any way improve the whole. In the field of higher education, these cuts are described as an unprecedented financial crisis. I am particularly concerned about the future of Finnish science and research when, in addition to cuttings, account is taken of the goal of the government's competence-head project "to strengthen cooperation between universities and business in order to commercialise innovations". According to these guidelines, "the development of the commercialisation of research results will be taken into account in the management of public research, development and innovation funding and in the incentives of research institutions and universities". In my opinion, this approach will be framed according to the commercial interests of Finnish science policy as a whole. How does the government intend to secure the prerequisites for high-quality basic research and the making of Finnish science if basic funding is drastically cut and, at the same time, funding is redirected according to commercial potential? And what will happen to smaller subjects and branches of science if the financial system is changed on the basis of these priorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u52	Värderade fru talman! The circular economy, the objectives of a carbon-free future and the objective of modernising the labour market — these are all good things that are easy to support. What is confusing, however, is the government’s belief in the power of its own direction, how it is believed that the winners can be chosen at the expense of the market. After all, in history, the winners have actually chosen themselves rather than on the basis of the state dictatorship, the choices. This will support certain sectors, such as the agricultural and forestry sectors, but everyone else will remain at a disadvantage. And what is most confusing is that the university world and research, those who traditionally have created this base, are left in the weakest position here. The government believes that it will be able to choose these gold grains, these grains of success, which will then be the winners of the future. This is perhaps particularly confusing because the government has adopted these guidelines in a situation where it itself has defined this business-oriented background as the guideline for this policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u53	The next floor will be followed by brief contributions from the Prime Minister, Minister Grahn-Laasonen and Minister Mäntylä. But now, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u54	Madam President! The Prime Minister's announcement contains well-chosen, important projects and objectives which deserve recognition. But I am surprised that the government has not taken any account of the fight against the shadow economy in these projects. It has been estimated that we are losing up to 15% of tax revenue due to financial crime, and over the last period an additional EUR 20 million was invested in combating the shadow economy by the various authorities and a specific prevention programme was implemented. The police will now be cut back on the financial investigations to increase the recovery of criminal and tax benefits to nearly EUR 50 million per year. There will inevitably be the impression that the government has, as it were, raised its hands in the face of this financial crime. The man-years of financial crime prevention in the police will be reduced by nearly 100 man-years from last year’s level, and the government expects the proceeds of the crime to fall by about EUR 13 million. This plan is extremely dangerous, because effective financial crime prevention is not quickly launched. It will take time to get involved in a demanding investigation, and it will be a pity if we lose the experts that were trained last season. Mr Prime Minister, the fight against the shadow economy is an exceptionally secure and productive investment. The resources allocated to it will be recovered many times over, as demonstrated by the last parliamentary term. So I ask you: is the government still going to take the fight against the black economy as one of its top projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u55	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes from that seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u56	Mr President! In this debate, again, we forget these constraints on our economy. Last year we made a deficit of 3.2% of GDP in public finances, 3.4% this year, and next year we will try to get below the agreed 3% deficit. Some of you say that there are too many key projects and some say that there are no key projects. Firstly, this thinking of cutting and cutting-edge projects. The ability of public finances to finance existing services has been permanently reduced. That is what we must take as a fact, that is the case, and the key projects will make the change that can meet this great challenge, for example in education and training, by introducing new learning environments and digitalisation. Laughing — it is an investment of about EUR 1 billion that is made in rural areas every year. It's demeaning to talk about barn-sweeping.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u61	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u62	Mr President! Just as the Prime Minister has said here, so the key projects seek permanent change in operating practices and more movement in Finland, and when the world changes so quickly, of course, we must be able to reform and make new ways of doing things in place of the old, unworkable models. One example of this is the Youth Guarantee, for example, for which a lot of money was spent in the previous period but which did not produce results, for example, youth unemployment did not decrease and, in practice, it was not possible to provide adequate assistance for the most difficult, most vulnerable young people who needed multi-professional support. Not all the top projects the government has are demanding money. Examples include deregulation or the dismantling of barriers to education exports, on the contrary, can bring more money and create it as a basis for growth. Thank you for the many good proposals that have emerged here, for the new key projects. I merely drew attention to the fact that, in the SDP's speech on your top projects, competence and education were not at all one of the top projects, which I find quite extraordinary in this world situation, when we should on the contrary strengthen the competence of Finns. The Greens said — and there were good ideas — that digital learning is not just about giving a tablet to a child’s hand, and that is exactly what we think, and that is why, in the 2020s, we have a reform of primary school, to which 121 million will be spent within all these key projects. There is a new pedagogy, new learning environments and digital learning — a three-fold entity that is important for us to be able to update the school world to the needs of the future. It also involves the development of teacher training throughout, and we will have to spend EUR 50 million over three years to raise the skills of teachers. This is an historic situation, and neither the previous government nor the previous ones have been able to do this. That's great. Of course it is true that, on the educational side, we are going to have cuts due to these marginal economic conditions, which the Prime Minister has well described here. But at the same time we need to be able to reform our operating methods, and that is no small thing, but it is entirely up to Finland's future, and that is why we have these key projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u63	Secretary Mäntylä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u64	Mr President! In fact, the previous ministers have already mentioned this, that it is precisely that we are now making permanent changes. And why we need them and do them, precisely so that we do not have to make drastic, drastic cuts. What surprised me, in fact, with regard to the opposition, especially with regard to the SDP, was that I did not find any mention of children in any of their top projects, I did not find any mention of the elderly, the family carers, Then this integration came up. Yes, there is a great deal of work being done on it all the time. It's done in TEAM, it's done in STM. STM and TEM are now working hard to create a model for integration in Finland that is also genuinely effective. Up to now, we have had integration, which has led us to have immigrant groups where employment rates are really bad. Is that what we want in the future? Why do we need to make an analysis of the cost of immigration? That is precisely because we know what that money is being spent on. It cannot be that we are putting money into a certain item indefinitely and we do not know what will happen with that money. As far as social security and constitutionalism are concerned, I wonder how we can say without even knowing what we are bringing, what kind of model, what kind of proposal it is that it is unconstitutional. We must understand these realities, where we operate, what our economic capacity is and what we simply have the potential for. This situation challenges our entire social security system, our service system in a whole new way, and we must also be prepared to do so then.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u65	Let us continue with a 1 minute response so that as many people as possible get a turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u66	Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, the project for the development of home care for the elderly is in itself a good one, and family care, for example, is far too little used in the care of the elderly. For example, it is ideal for many people with memory disorders. The development of informal care is also to be welcomed. But I cannot help but wonder whether the government has forgotten that enhanced service housing and group housing are also home residences and, for example, the only safe place for many lonely memory sufferers to live in a homelike way. These so-called community homes should be built more and enable people living there to live their own way, but now the government has decided to cut the housing allowance for pensioners, and it makes living in these forms of housing more difficult because they are rented. Another major problem is that the government has decided to reduce staff size recommendations in enhanced service housing. This is a very bad mistake, for we can maintain the ability of people with memory disorders, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u67	Mr President! While here the Prime Minister appealed to us all and to work together to reform together, then both the group speakers of the government parties and the other ministers of the government will start asking questions and, as it were, making fun of our presentations. When asked for concrete proposals, let us take the grey economy, for example. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether you are prepared to take the fight against the shadow economy as one of the top projects and whether you are prepared to implement the 21 operational programmes of the Ihalainen-Filatov agenda for the fight against the grey economy, such as the introduction of chain reception, the criminalisation of underpaid salaries, the personnel diary for the service sectors, the extension of the law on subscriber liability and so on. Are you ready? Are you prepared to implement the activation of the employment reform of the Ringe, the model of the employment voucher? And when you yourself said it wasn't about fixing the cuts, and you just said you had to put more money in Makera, because that's where the money is gone,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u68	Mr President! The main objective of the Government's leading project, as the ministers have already said, is to reform Finland, find new opportunities for Finnish work. Today we have almost half a million unemployed people. It is an infinitely large number, and it is the one that differentiates us the most. We celebrate the centenary of the centenary of the centenary of independence in 2017, and its theme is the centenary of the centenary year with the symbol "together". Ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to this debate, I am very sad. There is no will mode here that we together will solve these problems. We are living so deep at the moment that we will not get away with this if we do not blow together. In that sense, it is extremely important that we also find together the means to reform the work, reform the pay system, and so forth that this new era requires. I therefore hope that the labour market table will provide us with the solutions that we need as part of this reform of Finland. Now let's move on together, as the anniversary symbol says.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u69	Mr President! I have to say, I'm not talking about barn-sweeping either. In this situation, it is absolutely necessary to be concerned about the profitability of farms, which is certainly in the interests of Finland as a whole. But, Madam President, the Prime Minister spoke of the fact that this is not about cutting back on the top projects, and I do not agree with that. We have brought up the Green Parliamentary Group's own proposals for key projects yesterday. It's a lot like the government. For example, the government plans to cut Tekes' money by 95 million, but the key project package says that funding will only be re-allocated. During the parliamentary term, a total of 1.3 billion will be cut from education and 300 million will be added in key projects. We'll start a national park, but we'll cut at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u70	Madam Speaker! The key projects of this government are probably intended to increase growth, to give us new winds so that we can rise even better. As a decision-maker in Helsinki, therefore, I am surprised at the main problem of housing, construction and the capital region and all growth centres, i.e. high-price housing projects. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has no knowledge of the housing situation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Our biggest challenge at the moment is the high price of living. This is the main cause of urban poverty and is already an obstacle to employment in the capital region. The ways in which the government has outlined our building and housing situation in its key projects do not provide a solution. Take, for example, income limits for Ara dwellings. What do we save from having to create a new administrative bureaucracy that is looking at the income level and situation of all 60,000 people living in rented apartments in Helsinki? We know that the labour market will become more and more fragmented. Every month we visit the human account tape to tell him if he can continue in his own home.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u71	Madam President! I'll take over from this apartment trouble of Silvia Modig. Thousands and thousands of asylum seekers have come to us in the last few months. Once they have a residence permit, they will have the opportunity to move to the places they consider best and then not return to their countries of origin. The most likely places are Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Tampere and Turku. I will ask Minister Tiilikainen how you see that this migration is affecting the housing market and, in particular, the rental market. I would at least assume that demand will increase and it will be reflected in the prices of rental dwellings and then indirectly, for example, in the need for income support. On the opposition side, Päivi Räsänen gave good attention to this financial crime investigation and its financing. This is something that the section of the Committee on Finance will certainly look at with a magnifying glass, and we will do our best.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u72	Mr President! In my view, the Prime Minister has stressed very well how these key projects are not by their nature a way of filling in the cutbacks. They are part of a major plan which has been presented here little by little, specifically for growth and for the future. In this respect, the opposition's criticism of today's subject has been rather weak, and it has clearly only been intended to confuse cuttings with key projects. We've been talking about the cuts separately and about the budget. It is also interesting that criticism still completely overrides Finland's budget deficit for many years, our international commitment to correct this deficit and the risks of the debt burden in general. However, the positive thing is that in many respects the opposition's own leading projects sounded quite reasonable, at the title level interesting and not in many cases from the government's guests, but that they are already available in our own programme. There is certainly something to be developed here, as long as the means are agreed upon.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u73	Mr President! I am addressing this point, which is why the Social Democrats are not satisfied with this key project: much more is being taken away from economic growth by cutting back on education, research, product development. Mr Terho, this is a core issue. This is what is happening, and you are not able to whiten this matter. Then, to the Minister for Education, I would say quite simply that you are now making an unnecessary mockery of the Socialist Group speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u78	Mr President! The government will do what needs to be done. The situation is such that choices and choices should be made, and rather strengthen those strengths and seek new strengths. It is clear that research and science must continue to be the area of strength for Finland. The future of Finland will also be created there. It is a great thing that 300 million will be allocated to knowledge and 100 million will be added from other key projects to research and innovation. I particularly welcome the excellent solution of allocating EUR 50 million to our teachers' knowledge. They are one of the future factors for our children and young people in everyday life. Involve them in the development of teacher training. They're the best experts in their everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u79	Madam President! Yes, I am a little concerned about this so-called housing key project. The fact is, Mr Government, that you are cutting back on affordable homes, you are completely removing state support from youth and student housing, you are cutting back on home renovation money and you are stopping supporting suburbs. That's quite an operating list so I don't know exactly what kind of point or development there is in this area. When you talk about living, you also talk about breaking standards. No unnecessary standards, I agree, quality is maintained. But, Minister Tiilikainen, an energy certificate, could it be voluntary in old self-catering industries? This is what I was driving very hard for as a minister, and now I have heard a great deal of concern about the Omatalitoliitto that, apparently, this preparation is now at a time when this standard is not necessarily automatically being dismantled in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u80	Mr President! Finland’s economic growth is hampered by high levels of debt, low employment and poor competitiveness. They prevent investment, the emergence of new businesses and new entrepreneurs. That's why you shouldn't shoot with a shotgun. You have to shoot with a rifle. We need to find those possible transmission points. That is why we need top-notch projects. For example, growth alone will not be solved by it. Solving the grey economy is a very important issue, but even if the resources are allocated to solving the grey economy, it will not generate growth. Therefore, we need to select, use resources and resources, find a few key projects and target them so. It will generate investment in businesses and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u81	Mr President! First of all, this grey economy. Mr Kalli began his speech by saying that, since public finances are so much in deficit, it is an obstacle to competition. It is precisely the fight against the shadow economy that seeks to stem the tax leakage that undermines the sustainability of public finances. And that's not all. Indeed, fair competition for growth is an essential element, and then it is essential that we here make every effort to ensure that companies have fair conditions of competition in relation to each other. And I ask now, I asked the Prime Minister earlier, are you prepared to take the fight against the black economy as one of the top projects? Are you prepared to implement the road map programme proposed by the SDP in point 21? Let me now ask Mr Kalli whether you are prepared to criminalise the underpaid, which would bring a fair game between the different companies and put the chillers in check. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u82	Mr President! I mean, I don't underestimate the gray economy. The grey economy is something that needs to be put in order, and it has already been the leading project of the various parties in the opposition during several parliamentary terms. Every alternative budget has invested hundreds of millions in fighting the black economy. In other words, it is no longer worth constantly ensuring that Finland’s economic growth is achieved by combating the shadow economy. That is why we need to find new key projects that will convince the markets, which will increase investment capacity and create new jobs and jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u83	Madam President! It is important that the government has included the bioeconomy and the new solutions, but it must be said to Mr Kalli that it is now worth looking at the measures and objectives and mirroring them. How can we get it out of renewable solutions, clean solutions and bioeconomy if we cut off universities, we cut off Tekes' funding and as a point on I from the Natural Resources Centre, which is focused on research and development in the bioeconomy, 25% of the contribution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u86	Next, Mr Kivelä, followed by a few ministerial speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u87	Madam President! Paradoxically as it may seem, this university cooperation recorded in the top projects is contributing to the rescue of the University of Education Institute, for example, in the way that, when universities cooperate more closely between different disciplines, joint doctoral schools are organised, and so on, multidisciplinaryism is expanding, and this serves precisely this rich diversity of science, the ideal of the University of Education. But in the same breath, I am critical of this saying about digitalisation. At worst, it will only become a consultative democracy if it is not coordinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u88	Next, Prime Minister, then Ministers Tiilikainen and Rehn. The Prime Minister will have one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u89	Mr President! A quick-changed answer. Firstly, the reform of social security. I am surprised that it is still being questioned here, even though it was agreed together last season that it would be based on operators larger than the municipalities. I think we should go back to this joint agreement and move on from it. The same applies to municipal tasks. The programme of the previous government had a billion dollars to reduce municipal tasks. Now it's in front of us, we'll do it together. Congressman Kantola here raised the municipality of the future. Is it not precisely what you have demanded that parliamentary consideration be given to the role of the municipalities following this reform? Against the shadow economy: I am assured that we have sufficient resources to continue fighting the grey economy. If not, then it must be addressed. They asked about the funding. We are certainly not selling national property at the level we did last season, but we are doing it very carefully and in February we will bring it to Parliament with a plan for how to do it. - Here's the minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u90	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Planning and construction will be smoother, it will contribute to the amount of construction. Fair-price construction will be promoted by opening up new opportunities for new operators, by creating a new ten-year mid-term model, and these target-specific restrictions will then be made more flexible there at the end of the limitation period, provided that the released capital is invested in new production. Very concrete measures. MAL agreements will continue in large urban areas. If we then jump here on the agricultural and forestry side, which is also what the questions have been asked about. I have imagined that the Social Democrats want investment in this country. The capitalisation of the Agricultural Development Fund will ensure the full use of the investment potential of EU agricultural policy and those 50,000 farms will invest one billion per year. It is more than the annual investment of the entire forest industry. This type of investment should not be underestimated in this economic situation. As far as better use of forest resources is concerned, 15 million cubic metres more wood from forests creates well-being, work, opportunities for entrepreneurship throughout the country. We want to accelerate the wood market by enabling the generation of forest farms to change and improving the timeliness and accuracy of electronic forest information. Research and development efforts will be directed towards providing support to companies developing new products. Concrete measures of this kind will create opportunities for new work and growth, starting with strong resources in the bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u92	Secretary Rehn, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u93	Madam President! There have been responsible and reformist speeches from the Greens on energy policy, and I refer to Mr Niinistö and Mr Parviainen. In this respect, the Government's key projects rely on the Government Programme, namely that we meet international climate obligations, that we increase the share of renewable energy to more than half in the next decade, and that we stop burning coal and halve the use of oil in Finland's energy economy. I assume that we will share these objectives in terms of a sustainable energy economy. Representative Niinistö referred to Fennovoima, for which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy rejected Migrit because it did not meet the domestic criterion. We are fully in line with Parliament's decisions and the interpretation of the Chancellor of Justice, which contained two essential parameters: the need to fulfil the actual domestic ownership of 60% and the possibility of taking new, committed owners into account until the Government's decision. There were committed Finnish owners, and the conditions were met, the process will continue, and next we will be faced with nuclear waste management and nuclear safety issues in the next two years. Representative Parviainen wanted to speed up the processing of the renewable energy support system. I understand that the opposition is more emphasising the fact that we should not fudge. We are not baffling here either, we are preparing carefully as part of the national energy and climate strategy and we will report back to Parliament next year on this issue. Then together we can give impetus to a sustainable, green economy. To conclude, Madam President, to the first speech by Mr Haraka, it is very interesting that the SDP representative, Mr Harakka, a former member of the embryo group, appealed to credit rating agencies as the highest authority in the same week as the Italian demarcation government is suing the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. It's been a long time since it's happened. None of this would have happened at Tanner's or Koivisto's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u94	Mr President! As a big picture it appears that the government has developed a new circular economy like this with its top projects and cuttings, which cuts 10 units permanently and replaces one unit temporarily. Some of these key projects are in themselves good and worthy of support, but they are also overshadowed by a modest package of funding. It will cause these projects to become fragmented, and their impact may fade, and for this reason it would also be important to get a more accurate picture from the government of the funding of these key projects. I understand that you are preparing a study, but I think that, in this situation, when projects are presented, the impact of which we describe as relevant, significant, it would be important for that funding to be known as well. Now we have more or less the funding for next year, but no further than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u95	Mr President! The government must be spoken in the language that the government understands. After all, the government is always bouncing into the air when the credit rating agency arrives in Finland to make estimates, but this assessment, in which Standard & Poor’s truly stated unequivocally that this growth package does not bring growth, you did not say anything. It is also really worth looking at this deficit which was raised, and it is not enough, Prime Minister Sipilä, that you will bring out the funding for the projects you have already advertised in February, because the key projects will be regarded as state expenditure in the eyes of the EU, sales revenue will not be regarded as revenue or over-subsidised dividends. The government will therefore further increase the deficit. In fact, at this very moment, Finland's deficit is in better shape than last year, thanks to that defamed previous government, but now you are consciously increasing the deficit with these projects. You must report on this funding much earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u96	Madam President! Since the government itself is constantly calling on EU budgetary discipline to underpin its decisions, I want to know, as Mr Harakka has just said, how the government intends to finance key projects within the framework of EU budgetary discipline. Since the Prime Minister was so kind as to advise the government last season as a leader of the opposition, I would also like to give you some advice. As the Harakka mentioned a little earlier, in national accounts the expenditure side of key projects is recorded but the income side is not, these property transactions are calculated as a return on capital instead of income for dividends and are recorded in the financial transaction column and the sale of assets is counted as cash. Consequently, there will be no accounting revenue, so the objectives of EU budgetary discipline will be dashed. How do you solve this equation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u97	Madam President! Bioeconomy is one of the key projects for Finland’s future. The government is investing in these. Yes, these key projects are intended to translate and renew this Finland into the right job-creating, entrepreneurial direction. It's a starting point all the time. The balancing of central government finances is one important issue, but at the same time it is possible to invest in new issues. I am surprised to hear the opinion of the city-greens on the bioeconomy in particular. After all, the bioeconomy is a very broad-spectrum, well-carried issue for the whole of Finland, up to the production of pharmaceuticals. Billions of investment currently in Central Finland Äänekoski is one of the leading examples of the bioeconomy in Finland. How many such flag ships can be created in Finland, which also contribute to the bioeconomy? It is not just the construction of navels, which I too find demeaning when it comes to Finland's central food economy. The bioeconomy must be seen in its entirety, and in this respect it is perhaps the most important issue in this key government project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u98	Mr President! I do not know what city-greens the representative was talking about here, when Mrs Halmemenpää from Kalajoki was right there to praise the need to invest in new investments in agriculture. But it would be essential to recognise that there is a lot of good in this top-level venture, but in order to reform our agriculture, forestry and other sectors of the economy, we must be able to have new products of higher value added, new solutions to solve environmental problems, solutions that the world is asking for, for example, in the bioeconomy, to make use of manure, to overcome the autumn manure problem, to make it difficult to spread all the manure that comes into the fields and to produce biogas. Both the environment and agriculture thank for these. Concern is that, as VATT's Director-General has said, for example, that the government's key projects do not look forward enough in this circular economy and in the introduction of new solutions. Let us not support the old structure, but reform these areas so that they create more prosperity. How do you respond to this criticism?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u99	Mr President! Yes, here it is up to the opposition to reveal that the government first cuts ten and then returns one. It is good that this debate reveals this truth. I'll take one example of Tekes. The government takes from Tekes and then returns the little one. What is the outcome? For digitality, minus 45 million, for cleantech, minus 19 million. for the bioeconomy mentioned just now by Mr Ross, minus 5 million and for the health and well-being section, minus 11 million. These are the priorities mentioned by the government that we want to invest in. The end result is a minus sign. Mr President! Finally, Prime Minister: Kempelee, if there is a possibility of net metering, will benefit, for example, from electricity released from solar panels in the electricity bill. Make it possible soon, Prime Minister, in the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u100	Minister Tiilikainen's 1 minute answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u101	Mr President! As a matter of fact, it's a representative. As well as many other representatives of the Greens, they have spoken about the right thing here, namely the reform of Finland and the development of clean solutions to the circular economy, the bioeconomy, in such a way that they can solve these major problems in the world, namely the lack of clean food, water and energy. That is what this is all about. This is precisely what we are talking about, focusing on research and development efforts, demonstration projects, building reference sites in this area. In the circular economy, I am raising the issue of better use of this manure, which will benefit both farmers and the environment, as well as the exploitation of industrial side streams, better recycling of municipal waste, the circular economy, the economic base and employment. This is exactly what the government wants to drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u102	Madam President! One of the government's key projects is the health and well-being project. As we have just heard, the key projects are just the impetus for change. If we look at the real possibilities in Finland, which are still unused, they are quite a lot related to that area of health promotion. For example, as a result of alcohol, Finland loses between EUR 5 and 12 billion per year and, according to studies, even EUR 2 billion of health expenditure could be reduced by increasing physical activity. During peacetime, the hospital is the most dangerous place in the world, a doctor who has just retired has noted. I am therefore pleased that this health promotion will be strongly involved in the government programme and will keep us out of the hospital. There are already very good projects in Finland, for example "Power for old age" and "Perfect Exercise Month" in Mikkeli. Take these as a model and introduce them to Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u103	Mr President! In the opening speech of the Socialists, this was particularly the case with the people in rural areas. I felt that self-sufficiency and the production of domestic food are not important to the Social Democrats at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u106	Madam President! The living countryside is an important issue, but at least as important in this situation is that we take care of our growing urban areas, and in this context it is very good that one of the key projects is to develop and renew this contractual culture of land use, housing and transport. We have occasionally been accused of being ineffective in terms of land use, housing and transport agreements, and I would now have asked the minister concerned how these policies are to be reformed here. What kind of canes and carrots are likely to come, and what stage are these negotiations currently taking place in the MAL regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u107	Mr President! When this barn quote has been raised in many speeches, it must be pointed out that it was a quote from the speech of the former representative of the Centre's Parliament, Beautiful. But, Mr President, my home town, Joensuu, has been titled the European Forest Capital. It's because there's a lot of expertise, there's training, there's work to do. There is also the European Forest Institute (EFI). Now the government is cutting the EFI’s basic funding of around EUR 1 million — which has remained the same for 20 years — by 40 percent, or 400000. EFI has offices in 24 countries in Europe, Malaysia and China. Could this not serve as an excellent part of the export effort when we go out and export these fine bio-economy-related bio-products to the world? It's just that... [President MariaLohela : Time to go. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u110	Representatives Kontula and Laukkanen and then ministers Lindström, Vehviläinen and Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u111	Mr President! I am very surprised that Prime Minister Sipilä is expressing an interest in hearing more about the possibility of shortening the working day to six hours, to six hours without reducing the salary. We have recently heard quite a lot of good news from Gothenburg about a similar experiment there. On the employer's side, the effectiveness that it has become has come, among other things, from increased work efficiency and improved well-being at work, and from the fact that breaks are arranged differently. The Porsche in Germany has been doing a 34-hour week of work for some time with good success without counting wages. I would be happy to tell you more about this with time. Now that the government has talked a lot about these different experiments and the launch of an experimental culture, this would be the kind of thing that would be worth experimenting with in Finland. That would be exactly what the Prime Minister said in his opening speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u112	Mr President! Here, the Prime Minister asked about the war, why, once it has been agreed, there is now a desire to discuss this issue again. The situation of the wars is that these major regions are so large in some areas. For example, in the region of Uusimaa, the capital region, this new form of company to be implemented would mean a company with 65,000 employees. When these possessions of all cities are brought together, it will not be possible to settle the value of the property in this decade, when it took six years to assess the property solely for the integration of universities of applied sciences in the capital region. Prime Minister, yes, these are big things, and we must be able to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u113	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u114	Madam President! In my speech, I am focusing solely on this integration, because it has become so much more important here. On 12 August, the calculations and proposals for measures were brought to me in relation to the current situation and were based on 10,000 asylum seekers. Now we're talking about 50,000. There's been a little stream here that can sense why the government doesn't do anything. I'm sure the government will do everything it can. Mr Mäntylä's speech has already referred to the seamless cooperation between STM and TEM. That cooperation is with every ministry in the world. This is such a huge challenge that this must be met not only by the government, the opposition, organisations, business, everyone. All sides must be involved in this. That is why we have considered a wide range of measures for this start of integration, then integration, employment and everything, throughout this chain. Of course, we do not yet know whether this will be enough. I bet it's not enough. We need new thinking, and it must be radical, we need rapid action. That is why I have also called for alternatives and solutions from the opposition, and it has come from there. It's so sad that we can't get away with this on our own. I came from Luxembourg on Monday. There was an EU ministerial meeting, a meeting of ministers for employment and social affairs, and the fact that this is just the beginning was highlighted in many speeches. We are now responding to this challenge that we now have. We do not know what will be next year and I saw away. We need to create a whole new system, and this is not enough to answer this. I really hope everyone is involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u115	Secretary Vehviläinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u116	Mr President! First of all, this pilot theory, which I have the responsibility of coordinating with the government: it is here that we have raised this basic issue of income. Its proper preparation will be carried out by Minister Mäntylä, but then we will also be providing assistance on my side in this search for an experimental model, and in the near future we will also be able to tell you who and what will start to do this experiment model. Let me say that it is not only the government's case that is meant to be about piloting, but we are also doing the parliamentary advisory board to promote piloting. Then there's another thing for experimenting. I have spoken quite a lot with the ministers Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Rehn, Lindström and Mäntylä that we could also take a special theme here in the field of experimentation, which would translate all the stones and stumps, and that particular theme is work, employment and entrepreneurship. Here, as Minister Lindström said, this integration and immigrants would also be an absolutely important group. I think that we should turn all the stones on the labour market side in order to make new ideas available. My second point, which has been ignored here, is the reduction of the duties and obligations of the municipalities and, as we all know in this Chamber, all the present opposition parties have committed themselves to this EUR 1 billion objective. I am happy to accept those suggestions from you, and you can, in the context of its own alternative budget, tell us how these tasks and obligations can be reduced. We also asked the municipalities for suggestions. The municipalities told me 30.9. by almost 250 proposals. Tomorrow we will also inform you of what proposals will be made. But it is worth looking for cooperation in matters where we share common objectives, and in terms of the tasks and obligations of municipalities, that is the objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u117	Secretary Rehula, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u118	Madam President! With regard to yesterday's budget debate and today's key project debate, I have had the impression that for years we have a broad consensus, regardless of the parties, on the integration of social welfare and health care, on the one hand, on social welfare and on the other, on the basic level and on the other on the other. Similarly, since recent years of experience and joint action, I have had the impression that we all have the capacity to remove the responsibility of social and health care regardless of the municipality's size. It is good that there will be enlightenment here too. So we are no longer united about it — interesting, so far we have been. This is the preparation process that has been taken forward together so far: removing from the municipal base, no municipality in this country will be responsible for the organisation of social services for residents. Then, Madam President, the basic idea of a major project. Here, for example, Mr Uotila said that the truth is now revealed. The truth is revealed by reading a document in which key government projects are presented. The aim is precisely to get more out of the euro, to do some things differently. Child and family change programme: you don't need to reinvent the bike, but for example, the services of families with children need new content — more out of one euro in a permanent way. As far as the services of the ageing population are concerned, we are in a situation where we have a certain amount of euros available from the budget, and now the objective is to do more with one euro. We need a change program to really live there safely. The previous government left the EUR 270 million spike open, which is now being tried to fill, for example, by finding new content in the home services of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u120	Madam President! Good government! In this way, the new representative may have to wonder a little about this policy and culture here. I have thought that the results should be praised rather than the plans, and I hope that you will also provide us with some sort of assessment. Many speakers have reiterated the importance of integration. Minister Lindström also made a good speech on this. What if you acted now in time, in this moment and now and decided that you would have one of the most important projects and that this would be the integration of refugees? I believe it would be ambitious enough and it would be ambitious enough at the moment, because, as we are well aware, since spring this situation has changed a great deal, or is it true that you are unfortunately trapped in these key projects of yours? This is not what I'm hoping for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u121	Mr President! Mr Razmyar certainly does not remember that during the previous period, we were brought to us by the Ministry of the Interior with this kind of 'Guideline for Migration and Integration 2011-2014', and it does surprise me why it was not discussed in Parliament. The argument was given that the season was so busy that such an extremely important study, where there was much information about where Finland was going and where we should go, was not able to bring the then government to the parliament. I find that extremely regrettable, because now we have a situation where we have to start with a very clean table of what we would do. In that sense, the key projects are very good and the discussions that have taken place here are also extremely important in terms of integration. I would like each of us to read this document. Former Minister Päivi Räsänen left, he was one of the project leaders, one was Lauri Ihalainen from you SDP. Why on earth did this important document not come to our attention?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u122	Mr President! In the words of the Prime Minister, the key projects do not compensate for cuts. However, one of the objectives of the priority project is to put particular pressure on the implementation of these actions. That is why they are particularly important. An hour of exercise per day in the everyday life of schoolchildren is an excellent indication of the expansion of the experiment into a national approach. By already giving the opportunity to exercise during school days, all comprehensive school children are invested directly in better learning and healthier children and in supporting a physical lifestyle. This is a good step in understanding the preventive effect of exercise. Another important priority is to strengthen employment and competitiveness and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship. Promoting local reconciliation is essential alongside other labour market reforms. Work must always be profitable. Successful integration of immigrants is certainly an important issue for this Parliament as a whole. That is why it is a very good thing that the ministries have now taken serious action. Immigration is an opportunity in Finland's ageing demographic structure,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u123	Mr President! Minister Lindström gave a good and constructive speech. Instead of painting threats or calculating theoretical costs for this asylum situation, we must seek solutions. This is where we specifically encouraged the government, not reproaching it. The situation has changed since the key projects were carried out in the Government Programme. In this regard, the programme should now be updated, taken as a top priority in order to integrate asylum seekers and to catch up as quickly as possible with education and employment. Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä said that perhaps in January or February this funding will become clear. You said that national property would not be sold. Of course, there are properties worth selling, for example. They can, for example, alleviate housing shortages in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area when they are converted into housing. But when this whole package is a billion plus 600 million on the roads and the tracks, is it really the case that you can get this together?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u124	Madam President! There has been a rush across party boundaries for basic income or at least a basic income test. Personally, I do not believe that the basic income is one of the great pumpkins known to Tenavie, which brings all good things when it comes, eliminates poverty, eliminates the traps of incentives, eliminates the problems associated with the social security of entrepreneurs and so on. But I am from the point of view of this experiment because I believe that experimenting also highlights the undeniable challenges that such a system would face. Instead, there was a very strong opposition to a funded or, as they say, inclusive social security system, in which the idea is that a person who has been unemployed for a long time but is able to work would be offered and also required to do something meaningful that would be useful for himself and for society. I personally am in favour of this kind of funded social security, and that too should at least be tried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u126	Mr President! I would remind the honourable Member right that, at the moment, our social security system is almost entirely funded in Finland. So it has been tried for several decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u127	Madam President! It is good that the government has made home care for the elderly one of the top projects, as Mr Ruhula has just said. Various municipal trials are now being carried out to develop home care, which are cost-effective and where the services are primarily provided at home. This is a very good thing. Unfortunately, however, it has to be said that this key project is at odds with the state budget. It is not just a matter of getting more with one euro. I hope that this project, insofar as there is more to be done with one euro, will also affect citizens, that they will have access to more services with one euro. However, the fact is that, in the budget, the customer charges for social welfare and health services will now be increased by around 20%, which will have an impact on the fact that customers will no longer receive the services as they would need them. So I ask Minister Ruhula that, as you know, the services to be taken home are not part of the customer fee cap system and in practice this means that customers pay for all their services themselves. Now I ask you: would it be possible for some of these services to be taken home to be included as part of a ceiling system which would enable more and more people to have access to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u128	Värderade fru talman! Det verkar som om regeringen skulle se på invandringen närmast ur en kostnadssynvinkel. I svenska riksdagsgruppen ser vi också att invandringen medför öjligheter för Finland. Det viktiga är att vi skulle lyckas med integrationen, med språkundervisningen, med att ge öjlighet för dem som kommer till Finland att jobba. Det gäller också de aylsökande som nu kommer. Och jag är faktiskt oroad nu över den ox tendensen som tydligen finns i regeringen att man har en viss beredskap att dela in pineskorna i A- och B-människor beroende på ursprung när det gäller socialskydd.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u129	Madam President! With key projects in employment and competitiveness, the Government aims to put Finland on the road to sustainable growth. In his speech, the Prime Minister explained that the government is supporting companies in various stages: product development, growth finance and export efforts. These are all excellent and worthy objectives. The previous government reduced corporation tax on limited liability companies to 20 per cent, but note: This applies only to limited liability companies. On the other hand, not all partnerships, limited partnership companies, open companies and traders received any compensation, and there are at least some 150,000 company companies in Finland. In the last 10 years, most of the new jobs have been created in these companies, and I would like to ask: Why is entrepreneurial deduction not involved? Why is it not a tool for improving competitiveness and entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u130	Mr President! As I said in the previous speech, there are a lot of areas of government's top projects that are worthy and good, and I also say that there have also been a lot of concrete proposals in this debate on behalf of the opposition, which could complement this government package and therefore work together to move things forward. But still, Prime Minister, I am very interested in that funding, because there is little, in that communication section, to say anything about that funding, and you have just announced that in January you will bring more financial information to this Parliament. But when the effectiveness of this whole of the key projects can also be seen in terms of how funding has been thought about and what their impact is particularly on the government deficit and, on the other hand, changes in debt, I would therefore like you to be able to bring information more quickly and perhaps in some way today to open this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u131	And at the end of this debate, Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes from that podium. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u132	Madam President! Thank you for the debate, I have carefully taken notes and taken up suggestions. If I answer this question first: this financing of our key projects and this repair debt is as precise as every year the proposals for property income are made in the budget. There's no good reason to read that this company and this company are being sold.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u138	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 2/2015 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u139	Mr President! This third amending budget is very moderate, indeed technical, and contains only a few clarifications to the most critical expenditure items. Tax revenue estimates will be re-evaluated. Some tax revenues are slightly increasing, others are decreasing — but nothing significant. The increase in appropriations will focus on public employment and business services and improving the profitability of agriculture. There are also minor clarifications about increasing the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service and the police and completing the scrapping fee experiment. Mr President! The report also contains an objection and two proposals for statements. Furthermore, the Committee on Finance has also dealt with the initiatives relating to the amending budget. Mr President! I hope that this report by the Committee on Finance will be dealt with properly and completed so that the proposals relating to this will enter into force as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u140	Mr President! This report does indeed contain an objection. It has been left by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u149	Mr President! Last week, the opposition criticised in particular the savings in education, development cooperation and child care. Indeed, in the current television programmes, especially those of the Greens, the main ones explained that the government apparently really hates people in developing countries, small children and bigger children when it makes such a disgusting choice of values that it cuts right there. And they say the opposition always has alternative targets. This was last week. Well, yesterday, when the left-wing opposition decided to put a common intermediate question on the housing allowance for pensioners and other savings for pensioners, the pensioners were apparently the object of the government's hatred. Now that I have listened today to that previous debate and to Mrs Viitanen's speech, I have noticed that the government is still cutting its evil from Tekes, usually families with children, students, nature conservation funds, universities, youth guarantees, THL, housing, municipalities and now the most recent employment funds. The opposition says that "we always have an option, we are opposed to all your savings, always on different days of different savings, but we always have an option". Well, this is a bunch of humbug. The only thing that has some sort of alternative is the Left Alliance, which has said fairly that their alternative is to take more debt because they believe that by taking more debt we will ultimately get rid of the debt. But when the Greens and the Social Democrats in particular stress at different stages that they always have an alternative to these government savings, this speech is a total waste of time. When all savings are opposed, you certainly have no choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u152	Mr President! If Mrs Zyskowicz would be kind enough to wait until mid-November, when Parliament itself has determined that we will then be discussing alternative budgets for the opposition, then I can say to you, with many oaths and assurances, that such an alternative budget will come, Mr Zyskowicz. This alternative budget challenges this cold, right-wing economic line of government, which believes that cutting policy will produce growth. Let us cut out of knowledge — there are many economists terrified, Mr Zyskowicz. However, what you have just said could not have meant that, for example, you think it is right that we supported the government quite rightly yesterday, namely that the government is cutting the pensioners with a rather brutal hand. You do not think that it is right, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for the lowest-income pensioners to be deprived of housing allowance, for the cost of medicines to rise and for tax purposes to be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u153	Mr President! I see that this alternative to the opposition is starting to interest me, and it seems that the pressure is beginning to rise a little and the expectation is increasing here in the Chamber. But wait a second, Mr Zyskowicz, it will come from there, and when it comes from there you will be surprised. We are going to offer an alternative to this government's miserable policy, a government policy that cuts employment and domestic demand. There's an alternative to fighting the black economy, there's an alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u156	Mr President! Mr Viitanen and Mr Lindtman: I can take comfort in the fact that I am here in November too, and that I am busy with the alternative. When I said that at every turn you are always opposed to the savings that are on the table, but you say that you have the funding and the option, last time for these train cuts, among other things, But, Mr Viitanen, when you asked me whether I am defending these cuts, which are wrong politics, one of the statesmen we both appreciate has said that politics is always wrong, depends only on the point of view of the matter. So, of course, the cuts are bad and, in this respect, wrong politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u157	Mr President! The basis for this is the third amending budget. And it is reported that there is a debate as to why there is not enough money for employment. The answer is clear: the previous government did not reserve enough for this year, and this government has not provided enough for later. What can we do about this within this existing framework? We should leave the ranks of the government and the opposition with a joint appeal to the social partners to enable them to take action to clearly improve employment in the longer term. I think it's the only way. The fact that we are having this debate or whether there is enough money for employment does not remedy this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u158	Mr President! If it has not already become clear, then we have appealed here, we have appealed to the government, we have offered help. The government has not taken this hand. In addition, the social partners have become employees' representatives of the labour market, and this would have an immediate and long-term impact. This, too, has not been taken up by the government. So I suggest that you direct the word to the Minister's Court. Mr President, Mr Zyskowicz. With an amending budget and, in particular, these employment appropriations, and only with better employment, we can safeguard the livelihood of pensioners, I would now like to ask you how you feel about the government's policy. Now that it has become apparent that the government is actually tightening the tax burden on pensioners in relation to employees and leaving pensioners, low and medium-income pensioners, outside this reduction in earnings, and this is precisely the point in which you made up the vice-president of the centre, do you support this government's policy of fiscal discipline for pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u159	Let us continue this debate a little longer and see if we can get some clarity on this, and then we can move on a little faster.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u160	Mr President! I assume that gradually we could put an end to this previous government, whether it concerns the government of Stubb or Katainen or the second government of Vanhanen, the guilt of...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u165	Mr President! When we talk about better employment, active labour market policies and employment budgets have a role to play. But when it comes to better employment, the main focus must be on creating genuine jobs in every way, and by getting exports in Finland to lead to economic growth in Finland, and that is how jobs will be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u168	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is quite right that employment appropriations cannot be the main way of dealing with this matter. But the question here is not either—or it is both—that. Yes, society must play its part, especially in helping people who are unemployed and improving their skills. And that is what you are effectively neglecting, and this will become a problem in terms of exclusion. And when the next growth starts, we will have a shortage of skilled, skilled workers. This is a silly policy. But more is needed. It is strange, Mr Zyskowicz, that this enormous exercise of yours and your enormous appeal will all be directed towards 2017. You're not doing anything this year or next year. You say it's a terrible rush, but you're talking about 2017. And then you will not take the offers of the employees seriously — as former Secretary of State Sailas said, if this SAK offer is not now accepted, then this is something other than competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u169	And then Mr Viitanen, a member of the Committee on Finance, and then Mr Zyskowicz, and then we move on. Mr Lindtman has the floor for the next floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u170	Mr President! Isn't that the way it turned out that the Festina Lente is running slowly? That seemed to be what Mr Zyskowicz had in mind. But I'll be honest with you when you always want Finnish competitiveness to be improved by cutting the wages of Finnish employees...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u173	And last comment, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u174	Mr President! As far as the SAK proposal is concerned, I have also said publicly that I think it is a positive step in this process and that the fact that SAK offers zero lines more than a year in advance shows how we are living in an exceptional situation. Sometimes it seems that the SAK is better able to understand the exceptional nature of the current situation than is understood in the political opposition here. As far as competitiveness is concerned, the aim at this stage is precisely to improve our cost-competitiveness. Part of this is also the fact that local agreements are being extended, which will make it easier for companies to adapt to different situations and thus improve the productivity that is also sought here. As far as savings are concerned, all savings also have negative effects, such as a negative impact on the purchasing power of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u175	Mr Lindtman, the real speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u182	Mr President! I am tired of not wondering about this government's employment and employment policy. The government has clearly under-imposed the employment package in its amending budget. The money coming to the administration of the Ministry of Employment is not going to be enough as unemployment figures continue to rise. This decision is difficult to understand, especially since the government apparently has not reduced at all the alternative costs, i.e. what society pays in the short and long term if people do not find employment and perhaps fall completely outside the labour market. For too long, being excluded from the labour market and from active measures can seriously threaten people's return to work as the economy recovers. In addition, the Board of Directors is cutting funds for discretionary rehabilitation in Kela, which are very important in organising rehabilitation for the unemployed. The situation of the TE Offices is also beginning to be completely chaotic. One official may have up to 2000 customers and, in particular, those who need personal support and guidance may be excluded from the scope of the services. Minister Lindström has on several occasions stressed the importance of measures affecting employment in this Chamber. He has stressed that if there is little money, it must be used for effective measures. I couldn't agree more. I hope that the Minister will carefully read the final report of the municipal trial launched by his predecessor, Lauri Ihalainen, which has presented very effective ways of dealing with long-term unemployment. For example, if you take the Lieksa municipal trial project from North Karelia, it has saved the city and society a lot of money. Similar examples can also be found in other municipal pilot projects. Under no circumstances should these good practices be allowed to lapse now, for it can be difficult and costly to restart later. In the same way, the Minister should look closely at and continue with good practices in the Youth Guarantee. The Youth Guarantee was probably not perfect, but in any case it was better able to control the long-term unemployment of young people than in other European countries. With the help of detective youth work, thousands of so - called missing youths were found who were brought into active action. Good models can be found in Savo-Karjala, for example, where young people’s activation was exemplary in many places. Now youth unemployment is falling apart. Mr President! I do not care whether we talk about the Youth Guarantee or the Community guarantee, as long as we prevent the exclusion of young people. Now these government measures seem to increase the social exclusion of young people, and we all know that social exclusion will become the most expensive in the long term. That is why I really hope that, in the fourth amending budget, the government will correct these major shortcomings. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u183	Mr President! The Left, or the Green Left, has been a source of criticism and proposals and key projects in this previous debate. And now I'm here, with the last season and the preceding governments. What are some of the leading projects in the past? Over 700 million additional bills were made for industry. Well, what will happen as a result? Industry is leaving this country where these bills are not coming. This is very simple. The main projects were shepherding the booths, spawning places for frogs, and pots for quacks. These things don't do anything to us. You have to be able to deal with the key issues. And more: wind power. It is totally unacceptable that foreign investors and wind power companies should succeed by the decisions of previous governments, at the expense of the low-paid and hard-working. The people who build this country, not the investors who come to our country after the wind supporters. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u186	Mr President! The debate is rather broad and, of course, the employment and economic situation gives rise to talk from the broad front. Perhaps it is worth saying, however, when Mr Hakkarainen spoke of these problems in previous governments, that both of his examples may be from this second government of Vanhanen, that is, from the previous bourgeois government. The IMO agreement, which, according to an estimate by industry, brought an additional EUR 700 million to foreign trade, came about during this government, and it has never really been clear who actually responded to it and, according to whose instructions, these negotiations took place. As far as wind power support is concerned, I think it was born in this same government, and if I do not remember correctly, then I think that the current Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen, was the Minister for Economic Affairs, so let us put these in the right balance sheets in history. And now for today. This is a sad story, though, that the government is taking a very long time to react to this employment situation. In the past, even when the parliamentary term changes, governments have seen what are the most urgent tasks and then the feedback that has come through the elections, and when new powers come to the government, these ideas of the new powers are being implemented right away through additional budgets. It has been a leading idea, especially when there is a situation where fundamental economic development and also employment development are very different from what has been thought. From this point of view, this additional budget is a real disappointment. It is also disappointing in view of what was said here in June when the last additional budget was discussed. After all, it was suggested that this will be back in early autumn and that a turn for the better can be made. The committee, acting unanimously under the chairmanship of Mr Kalli, also stated that these employment appropriations were under-estimated. Well, now this whole repertoire was very late, so that these are not enough to meet the needs of immediate employment management, and neither will these much talked about cost-competitive solutions happen, neither for this year nor for next year. This is really confusing because a huge amount of government rhetoric has been hung on this claim that there is a terrible rush now and there is no time to wax. There's no time to wax. And then, after a year and a half, everything that the government does and talks about comes into force — perhaps — with all the uncertainties that relate, among other things, to whether these government coercive laws are in accordance with the Constitution or not. I am firmly in favour of not agreeing with the content of our Constitution that contract law should be taken away from employees and employers. I cannot understand that it could go to fundamental rights, so there is still the risk that this whole structure might come down like a house of cards. Then there is the feedback I believe that quite a few representatives have received in connection with the employment budget here and now. The employment offices will be informed, the employment and economic development centres will be informed, the entrepreneurs will be informed, the young people will be informed, the young parents will be informed, and everyone will be concerned that there will be no funding for the proven means to help in such a situation of employment. Start-up grant — cannot be given to new entrepreneurs. And this, too, is strange because you would think that even on the right side of the Chamber — which, by the way, I do not think is very widely present in this debate, I notice no one —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u189	Mr President! First of all, with regard to the Youth Guarantee, when I talked to a person who deals in practice with the Youth Guarantee, he said that the idea is absolutely brilliant, but in practice it does not work. Young people who are otherwise active and find a place to study, work or train have been covered by the Youth Guarantee. Therefore, when this happens in practical life, the youth guarantee, the social guarantee — as we call it — needs to be looked at very carefully and see what kind of thing it is worth continuing. Mr. Speaker! There is an increase of 5 million in the additional budget to finance the car scrapping wage, which I think totals 8 million dollars for this year. It's an interesting experiment. The Committee on Transport and Tourism discussed it and was informed that, with a EUR 1000 scrapping premium from the state and an additional EUR 500 from the car trade, 8,000 cars will be scrapped with this money this year and 8,000 new low-emission cars will be purchased. Thus, the State receives car tax revenue of EUR 3500 per 8000 car on average, and by deducting this EUR 1000, which the State pays the scrapping premium, each car becomes EUR 2500 per car for the government’s income. Consequently, the State receives EUR 20 million in revenue and loses EUR 8 million, i.e. EUR 12 million, for the benefit of the State, if it is calculated that these car sales would not have taken place without the scrapping premium. Well, that's how it's been. It is now an experiment that ends at the end of the year, and it is supposed to end and not be made permanent. In some countries it may be permanent, but in Finland it is not. Mr President! Then there is this much-vaunted employment budget. I still wonder, however, how, a year ago, the Minister for Finance, Rinne, and the Minister for Labour, Ihalainen, calculated the need for this year's appropriation for this very great item 51. If the employment figures fell, then the employment rate must then be about 150,000 unemployed for this year on average, because the funding ran out about six months and we have over 300,000 unemployed. You can't count like this. Why were the Social Democrats not interested in employment management so that you would have provided sufficient resources for this year, for the whole year? Were the elections so close that they wanted to save in the state budget at the expense of the unemployed? Unfortunately, this is the kind of doubt that arises. We have 350,000 unemployed, and the number of unemployed has risen roundly by 30,000 a year. It is not that the increase in the number of unemployed can explain the fact that the employment budget for item 51 has run out about six months this year. That's an impossible calculation! Unfortunately, then, the conclusion is that, last year's Minister, Mrs Rinne, you only made a six-month allowance for this year, and then the use of the plan of use is so strictly limited that it has not been possible to make a sensible use of it and has since ceased to be used in certain areas and for certain uses in the middle of the year. When the additional budget was discussed in the spring, it was said that in some ely areas the money ran out in the spring. Why, then, was the additional March budget not already increased when it was apparent that it would end? Now you're asking for more money. Well, it's all right, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u190	Mr President! I would just like to say that for this year, the employment estimates were quite different last year when the budget was drawn up and were based on officials' estimates of how employment will develop this year. All I have to say is that I have provided a model here that could use the current passive unemployment benefit for active measures. Why hasn't the government taken it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u191	Mr President! The Government Programme has been built on all new means and systems. My question is: why did the previous government not start reforming the use of labour billions? Mr Rinne, you must have believed in a miracle last autumn, which would have happened in the spring, that unemployment would have really halved when you believed that the money you made available for this year would have survived the whole year — when, however, it ended, as Mr Viitanen has repeatedly assured, had already been partly in the spring and are now running low. However, there are still a few tens of millions that are apparently available, and here is another 21 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u192	Mr President! I don't think Congressman Kankaanniemi was in the last parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u195	Mr President! Let us not look too far ahead now when we look at the moment when the budget that you have drawn up is still being implemented this year, and why you have made far too little money available for employment, that is the question to which I want an answer. Since the Social Democrats are concerned about employment, people's access to employment and, for example, these opportunities for the third sector to employ people, why did you reserve so little that it ended in the spring, and it is currently impossible, for example, to employ people here in Uusimaa, where you are affected? I think it has been quite irresponsible to sub-budget so strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u196	Mr Viitanen, last reply to this, and then Mr Kankaanniemi's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u197	Mr President! In previous years, whenever the Social Democrats have been in the government, it has been common practice that, in the middle of the year, if the employment budget is running out, an amending budget should be introduced to fill in and include the necessary amount of this money. It's standard procedure. If, in your opinion, Mr Kankaanniemi, it is so irresponsible that we should have done the same thing again, how irresponsible is the policy of this government now that the situation is in hand here and now and you are nothing, even though you have this scepter? What do you think it is, Mr Kankaanniemi, from the point of view of the unemployed to listen to this debate? What do you think, when your only explanation for the unemployed is that when the demos didn't add money back then — I have the power but the demos don't — and a little laugh after them. You don't get to laugh at the unemployed person who's out of work without that job place. And when you talk about a new grip, that new grip was also on your alternative budget, because I have studied it: you presented plus 75 million on your own.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u198	And Mr Kankaanniemi, the last reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u202	Mr President! This additional budget is characterised by a certain level playing field. There will be too little money for employment expenditure and even less, or EUR 19 million, for agricultural farms in crisis. And even if there is another problem with the EU money, the money is very scarce to deal with the problems of the countries in crisis and in crisis. These problems are mainly still the result of these Russian sanctions, and it is important that the production of milk and pigmeat should be able to benefit from this aid this year. The production of pig meat has not yet received anything. That payment has been postponed all along. It should be made available on this side of the year, and decisions on how to deal with the problems caused by debt will probably go into next year. Then, of course, there will be crop damage, which will require action. But we still do not know the final magnitude and targeting of those crops.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u203	Mr President! If I also start, like Mr Heinäluoma, I remember the old ones, and then at the end we go back to the present day. First of all, the biggest thing about this is that there has been a clear increase in the number of long-term unemployed in the structure of the employed. When only the long-term unemployed can receive wage subsidies, it seems that last autumn neither the budget nor the supplementary ones were able to estimate that the number of long-term unemployed will increase so significantly. And this is the reason. The second, of course, would have been that labour market policy measures would have intervened earlier in the case of people with an increasing employment cycle and concern about maintaining their ability to work earlier. This could perhaps have been a measure of intervention. But the problem is precisely the start-up money and the pay subsidy. They have not been sufficiently reserved and labour market policy measures have not been such as to have been taken early enough to apply for this job. And here's something to learn. I think the summary is clear: both the previous government and this government have not acted in a commendable way in this respect. Then, on another matter, a little older, when I was the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre and when we were discussing the issue of wind power. I remember very well when this debate took place in the other room, it was presented by Minister Pekkarinen. There was a little different world. The price of oil was slightly different, and energy policy looked a little different, including its need and availability. At the time of the vote here, both the Social Democrats and the Finns also voted in favour of such a proposal. If it had entered into force, this support would at present be much greater. In this case, however, the score is now going to be that of the then government, say 8 points, and then opposition 4 minus. This is at least the fifth time that has been recorded in the parliamentary minutes. Then, how can we move forward on this issue and how, as well as labour policy measures, strengthening economic growth, competitiveness and all of this together, we could contribute to the creation of more job opportunities and the future need for unemployment funding not as much as we do at present. That's the big question. At some point here I said that the salary itself is not a significant one, but this system of ours, which involves a huge number of other types of activity. When Finland is an expensive country, no one wants to be able to buy those services, and more and more Finns are seeking services not from Finland but more from Estonia: they go to car maintenance, they go to a barbershop, they buy different kinds of supplies. And this kind of consumer behaviour is significantly changing. The worker has always earned his salary, and I am one of those who is able to increase productivity, not by lowering wages, but much more by other measures. Sometimes I've been chopping wood a day for ten shots, and one day I'll only get one shot in the same time. So it depends a little on the current and the sharpness of the saw and axe. If an axe hits a rock, there's no other way, you need to sharpen it even sharper.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u204	Mr President, Herr Talman! Representative The reference was so right to start this debate when he said that the greatest sin is that the government neglects to deal with this increased problem of employment. It is also the biggest deficiency, of course, in this amending budget, because the whole idea of the amending budget instrument is to react to changed situations, to what has changed since the government negotiations or after the budget was drawn up. In fact, there are two basic rules in the field of employment that will enable you to start your basic studies. The first is that if we manage to increase the employment rate by 1%, it will have a positive impact of EUR 1 billion on public finances. Another basic rule that should be borne in mind is that if you do not take active measures for a person who has been unemployed within three months, the periods of unemployment will be prolonged, and that is, of course, not only humanely but also economically unstable. Now it seems that the government has forgotten both these basic rules of fist and, in a way, the only medicine that the government thinks is anything, are these cuts. Mr Kalli here appealed to the social partners and, in a way, said that the government does not have much role to play here. He called on the social partners to take action. I happen to have a very good copy of Raimo Sailas's column on Helsingin Sanomas yesterday, and I quote this, because I think this is a good indication that the government has now missed the fact that there is something happening in that sector. "In the absence of conditions for cost-competitively-enhanced solutions, The outlook was brightened when the government of the SAK brought its own presentation to the table." SAK is prepared to agree on zero increases, accept the principle that the export industry will now determine the upper limit for wage increases, and is also prepared to accept combined substantial reductions in the employer's health insurance contributions and so on. Sailas goes on to say: "If the government does not agree with such a policy, I suppose we must believe that the government's objective is indeed to break the contractual society."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u209	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a great deal of talk about this adequacy of the employment budget for the third amending budget, and the Social Democrats have been very critical of the fact that more money should have been put in there. But I personally believe that Mr Lindström has done very well here within the framework of the framework of the framework conditions which the government unfortunately now has. Finland’s economy is in a very difficult situation, and the budget is very difficult to put forward. However, money has now been proposed, for example, for adult education, for further vocational training, and then for public employment and business services in particular, EUR 21.6 million, some of which will then go to people who have been made redundant by Microsoft. This appropriation for persons made redundant by Microsoft is then to be applied for from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund at a later date. But another point I would like to draw attention to is that the government's proposal No. 31, which will then include changes in the income tax rate next year, will include, among other things, a tax change of up to EUR 20000 next year for citizens who earn EUR 20000. I think that will be an excellent relief for employment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u210	Mr President! There have been many aspects of this debate that have come to light so far, and to some extent this history writing must also be reviewed from time to time. But it is certain that no government will survive before the citizens by telling them that the reason why it does nothing is the previous government. There is no such market event as this line shows that, now that we are in the government, we will not carry out the proposals we made before the elections, and the reason is that there was a wrong government during the previous parliamentary term. This logic, which Mr Kankaanniemi here offers to the whole group of Finns, is a heresy for both the Finns and the country as a whole. Now, Mr Kankaanniemi, you have the power and you have the Minister of Labour, you have the opportunity to decide what the money will be spent on. I have noticed that you will use it to some extent, as in the proposal, for example, that the car tax should be reduced by EUR 200 million next year and thereafter. And at the same time, you are prepared to make decisions to close down, among other things, rail links in central Finland to save EUR 13.5 million, so that people can no longer use the train. And the same applies to this very necessary rail link in the south, the Y-train, which is now being put on naftalin because you do not want to use the 13.5 million, because your choice of values is that you prefer to reduce the car tax by EUR 200 million. And after you have asked for these constructive suggestions: There have already been more of them here in September than you seem to have been able to implement. In other words, this proposal has come up with a slight reduction in this fall in the car tax and in favour of passenger transport, and it would be used to promote public transport and VR connections. A matter which is very important for the balanced regional development of the country and which has a major impact on the vitality of the provinces: train connections are being maintained. It is not a matter of many million, but of will and value, Mr Kankaanniemi. I would like to see how you explain this weakening of train connections in your own constituency and to your own supporters. Is that Rinte's fault too? Mr Rinne is probably to blame for this if your previous logic is to be followed. Similarly, the proposal to continue along the lines in which we were in the previous government: to make it possible to do work instead of distributing this passive money. A very important reform, in which EUR 300 is an opportunity to earn a job without being cut out of unemployment benefit. It is an example of small important steps. Now, Mr Rinne, President of the SDP, has made a very important proposal to change unemployment security in an active direction: It could be such an employment voucher that could be brought along and that would make it easier for people who have been unemployed for longer to get a new job. Here, too, there is a constructive proposal for you, which would mean a considerable increase in tax revenues, less exclusion problems and give entrepreneurs a skilled workforce who there are anxiously waiting to get to work. Such practical proposals would be available, and all of them will then be able to implement, under these strict framework conditions, an increase in the active budget for employment management without jeopardising the balance of public finances in any way. Today, in the key project debate, there were very important speeches, but I would like to draw attention to just one important aspect which was raised in Mr Haraka's speech, which concerned the estimates of Finland's economy by foreign rating agencies: There is both the situation now and then the prospect of growth: what is to be done to deal with its longer-term growth. If we have such reforms in this area, such innovations that create new hope for growth, then we will also have the opportunity to survive in this period of time from the allocation for employment management, but if, unfortunately, we do not have this prospect, as it is lacking now, then we will be very strict with regard to the appropriations that we are discussing here both this year and next year. But I would comfort Mr. Kankaanniemi: You now have the power. You are in the government, you can implement or fail to implement your own proposals if you believe in the proposals you have been telling Parliament for four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u211	A brief debate, Mr Kankaanniemi's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u212	Mr President! Thank you for these notes and all the others. I believe that Minister Lindström will welcome them and investigate them, to clarify them. I wonder why those ideas come now, not a year ago, for example, when you had the power. But let's not go on with that. The reduction in car tax is probably for many people when it comes to cheaper, low-emission cars, a big thing, even for many workers, who may be able to buy a better car for their business trips and other things, so that it is not quite so unambiguous at the moment. And by the way, it easily becomes more tax when it is slightly reduced as the level falls and the amount increases. To this employment perspective in general: We really need to make the reforms we have been talking about. This will activate the appropriations available for employment. So far, we've just been taking on debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u213	I would like to thank Mr Kankaanniemi for his contribution. There's already been a little approach. I think I notice that this kind of constructive attitude begins to win the industry also among the government parties. As far as these proposals are concerned, it should first be remembered that Mr Rinne made this proposal when he was Minister Rinne, a proposal that was made last year's side, and it shows that things can be done both from the government and from the opposition. But once again, you have the power now, so that nothing more than toupenrapina and good ideas for action. As a result, employment will start to grow and there will also be less need for these adjustments to the employment budget, to which there is still a considerable need.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u214	Mr President! I do not know whether this debate has gone so far as to make this speech unnecessary, but when there was a debate here on how to estimate these employment funds are always measured in the current budget, it is, of course, always based on the latest employment forecasts at the time, which are made by the Ministry of Finance, and then by other institutions, the Bank of Finland and so on. It will then be used to measure these employment funds and see what is being achieved as if the activation rate were being achieved. It's based on preparation. And when you always look at the level of ambition set by the previous government in that year, if it was not achieved, then during the year it was responded to with an additional budget each time. Every single time this kind of need came, it was reacted. Although we are now dealing with the amending budget — and now that this is the first government that so underly reacts to changes in the world — I also think that, when we look at that draft budget of the state, we have for the first time a government that has set the goal of cutting unemployment for young people under 25 as a target of not 10% but 25% in the future, one in four young people, being unemployed for more than three months. So the government in its own budget proposal, in its own budget book, is raising the target of how many [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : I would ask the representative to move. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u217	Mr President! We are in this situation that there are close to 400,000 unemployed, and everyone may well wonder why this has been achieved. And, of course, when we are one government party, we are in a way responsible for this situation of unemployment at the moment. But I would also like to say that if we go right there to the end of the 1980s, when I was in Parliament at the time, then Mr Leppänen, Minister of Labour, promised to eliminate unemployment in three months.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u220	Mr President! It is true that everyone certainly wants employment to improve in Finland. The last time the Social Democrats presented their own options today is precisely to create more jobs in Finland, that is, through our rational projects. I would like to raise the question of this third amending budget. When the government first cuts the budget and then announces that there will be reforms, this means that around one third of the money has been spent on the budget, according to the Ely Centres. The argument is that, since the government is reforming unemployment security because the government is reforming support employment, this whole money will not be put there. We would now like to know what this reform is. The same applies to youth employment. Cut the social guarantee money from 60 million to 4 million, and the argument once again is that this system is being reformed. For example, direct lessons could already be drawn from North Karelia and North Savo, which have very good results in terms of the Youth Guarantee. This is precisely a question of preventing a prolonged unemployment among young people. In addition, it is absolutely necessary to do things by applying for youth work so that young people do not stand aside. But these are not mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u221	Mr President! Now that the Social Democrats and the opposition as a whole have called for more money for employment at two different stages of the additional budget, knowing that the employment budget has already run out and that the need is great, we may no longer be able to imagine that this is a question of ignorance, but it is quite deliberate that they should be running out of time. The government monitors all kinds of comparative statistics in the EU in terms of competitiveness and other factors, but rarely mentions this fact that unemployment is currently rising in Finland, the fastest in the EU as a whole. This means that next year there will be a clear risk of 10% being exceeded. And this is a kind of ghost limit — a two-digit unemployment rate. I have reminded you before of what happened in the 1990s, when in 91 unemployment exceeded 10%. It did not return to a one-digit number until 7.5 years later, in the summer of 99 C.E. During the period, which was one of the most intense periods of growth in Finland's economic history, Nokia was driven. In other words, unemployment will become a serious problem for economic growth, and it will certainly prevent many of the economic growth objectives that the government rightly pursues. At the same time, we are haunted by the fear of an increasing deficit. That is where I tried to talk to the Prime Minister about how these so-called key projects are to be financed, and I warned that they are threatening to increase Finland's deficit by more than a billion already. In view of the many vigorous and patriotic speeches that have been used to combat the deficit, it is worth noting that government action deliberately increases the deficit. For example, if you consider the wage bill that the government is seeking, you may lose as much as EUR 1 billion in tax revenue from that salary, and accordingly this loss is to be compensated for by another tax reduction of EUR 1 billion. So it already has a further loss of 2 billion to society and an increase in the deficit. In actual fact, the situation is that, if you look at the Monthly Indicators of the Treasury, it sees it, Finland's deficit has decreased. The deficit in Finland is now less than 3 per cent, thanks to the actions of its much maligned previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u224	Mr. Speaker! Firstly, I would like to say that under no circumstances do I consider unemployment to be the own fault of the unemployed. Yes, we have structures, this international situation, the crisis in the euro and many other factors have led to economic growth, and when the economy does not grow... — It was used to say that GDP should increase by 4% a year, so employment would remain stable, would not get worse, but when we have been well below it for a long time, unemployment has increased. The budget for next year will amount to EUR 557 million for this advanced article. According to last year's financial statements, EUR 504 million was spent, i.e. an increase of 10% compared to last year's budget for next year. You cannot claim that the government has cut and cut and cut, as the Social Democrats claim here. All we need now is an active grip and then we will certainly also need, for example, the Taipalee model, so that those who are not available to the labour market retire.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u225	Congressman Kankaanie: I did not say that you would use such rhetoric, but I only anticipated that this rhetoric will be used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u228	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the point raised by Mrs Harakka in her speech, namely that when unemployment is prolonged, even when the need for labour is increasing, unemployment remains at a high level. This is precisely because there have been no activation measures to keep the skills and training of the unemployed at the level that he can then take up the job. Of these mistakes, which have been made — or have been allowed to be very bad — we must learn and understand that in this situation, when we have this age structure, this greying Finland is an obstacle to the fact that we do not have the potential for growth as it was in the 1990s. That is why we must now take very seriously the fact that unemployment is being prevented from being prolonged, especially for young people and everyone else, so that we then have the kind of workforce that is possible to take jobs when we get the economy up. In this context, it must also be said that the debate on integration that took place early in the afternoon is also very important to understand this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u229	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u230	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u231	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u232	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A debate on the 9th issue will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u233	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u234	Mr President! This is a review of the rules on nature conservation and environmental crime. Indeed, this proposal proposes to revise the provisions on penalties for nature protection environmental crimes. First of all, the proposal proposes that a new penal code be added to the criminal code on a serious nature crime. A natural crime could be considered serious if it is a serious offence as a whole and causes serious risk or damage to the survival of a species, natural area or other natural object, pursues significant economic benefits or commits a crime in a particularly systematic manner. The penalty scale would be imprisonment of at least four months, at most four years. At present, there is no serious form of crime against nature conservation and the maximum sentence is two years in prison. The second key proposal of the proposal concerns gross environmental degradation. Two criteria for ducking would be added to the penalty provision. Environmental degradation could be considered serious if it pursues substantial economic benefits or commits a crime in a particularly planned manner. The aim is to highlight the nature of the crime as an economic crime. There is broad agreement on the need for a proposal. The opinion was very positive in its feedback. All the speakers considered the reform to be generally supported, necessary or justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u235	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u236	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u237	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u238	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u239	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u240	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 25 September 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u241	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u242	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u243	The 17th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 8 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-07-ps-46.u244	For table setting, the 18th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 8 October 2015.
