ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u1	On 7 May 2015, Mr Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner, the Vice-Judge of Hyvinkää, who, as deputy to the constituency of Uusimaa, has become the deputy of Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner, who announced the interruption of his post of representative, has presented me with his mandate and has taken up his duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Lasse Männistö requests an exemption from the National Pensions Institution. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u4	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u5	Mr President! I think I'm the first one to say "valid Speaker" about this toilet. It's a great honor. Mr President! The report on the activities of the Council of Europe delegation in Finland for the year 2014 will be discussed. The Council of Europe is the oldest human rights organisation on our continent to monitor the principles of democracy and the rule of law, which has played a very important role as a forum for finding solutions to the common problems of parliamentarians in its Member States since 1949. Today, the Council of Europe consists of 47 countries. These include Russia and Ukraine. More than 700 MPs from different countries participate in the Parliamentary Assembly, including members and alternates. In addition, work is being done on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in a number of committees and in informal discussions through diplomacy. Last year, the General Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted more than 60 resolutions. The topics of the reports to be discussed have been very diverse, and the Finnish people have been very gratefully involved in these discussions, both as rapporteurs and as participants in the debate. Reports have been processed on the case of Sergei Magnitski and on the fight against racism and the integration of immigrants into European societies. There have also been issues such as the impact of the Internet on political activity, international assistance to Syrian refugees and the democratic development of Palestine. Reports have also been made on the functioning of Ukrainian democratic institutions and the new Spanish abortion law. That's a lot of different things. The starting point and approach to all the issues raised on the table have always been the same in the end: the perspective of the fundamental rights and security of individual citizens in a changing and often very complex world. There can be no compromise on common fundamental rights and citizens' freedoms even in the most difficult times. The public's confidence in the functioning of the political system and in social justice are fundamental prerequisites for a functioning society. Human rights can never be subjected to arbitrary action and only apply to some groups of people. Human rights are universal, and human rights standards in different countries must also endure international, closer scrutiny and criticism. Mr President! This report by the Council of Europe for 2014 highlights one thing above all. Last year's biggest issue at the General Assembly of the Council of Europe in the member committees was the situation in Ukraine, Russia's actions and the related challenges. This issue is still very topical. The decision taken by the General Assembly in April 2014 following the vote limited the possibilities for the Russian Parliamentary Delegation to participate in the proceedings of the General Assembly by, inter alia, exporting the right to vote from Russia and the possibility of participation in the work of the main committees of the Council of Europe. This decision was made for a limited period until the end of the year. At the beginning of this year, at the January session, the parliamentarians again faced the same situation: how do they react to Russia's reluctance to comply with international commitments and generally agreed principles? The majority of the Assembly supported the maintenance of Russian sanctions until the April session. However, Russia announced that it will not return to the work of the Council of Europe this year at all. The debate on Russia's actions will therefore continue in the Council of Europe at the moment without the members of the Russian delegation. As far as their further work is concerned, what it means for Europe and what it means for the global community — the situation needs to be assessed very carefully. According to current information, in January 2016 the rights of members of the Russian delegation will be re-examined at the General Assembly of the Council of Europe. Mr President! With regard to Russia, the Finnish delegation has always stressed the importance of dialogue. In January this year, too, when decisions were taken on Russia, we stressed the importance of dialogue in order to solve the problems. Our small delegation — five actual and five alternates — has highlighted the lines of Finnish foreign policy in its own work, and by this I am referring precisely to President Niinistö, Foreign Minister Judge and the dialogue between the President of the Parliament of the last parliamentary term, Mr Heinäluoma, who is seeking solutions, which highlights diplomacy,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u8	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Finnish delegation, Mr Guzenina, for this report, which quite rightly reflects Finland's active approach to this parliamentary cooperation. On the other hand, this report also shows, in a rather sad way, that there is also a need for this cooperation in these unfortunate conflicts and there is a great need for it in Europe, in the vicinity of Europe's external borders and beyond. Many crises continue to exist, and new ones are emerging. The report states, and quite rightly so, that Europe has even been unprepared for some crises. The attention has grown more attached to the other side. In this context, the report has also raised the issue of IS terrorist attacks, mentioned by the Chair of the Delegation, which in a certain way have surprised us with their organisation and active and even aggressive recruitment, which is under attack. We already know that European young people are fighting in the ranks of terrorist organisations. Many of the crises are not under control, including in the Mediterranean, which has become a burial place for refugees. These drownings continue to occur and have led to recommendations to the European Union to share responsibility and, obviously, now also to the Commission's proposals. The threat of terrorism continues on the borders of Europe. It is real and, as I said, in practice we do not know what the actual number of recruits is and what their activity is. Nor has the crisis between Russia and Ukraine subsided, but the unrest, as well as Russia's certain isolation, are obvious all the time and, as the President-in-Office mentioned, Russia is not taking part in the Council of Europe's activities as before, there is no similar negotiating link. We are also talking about a change in the security environment. In this report, I hope that the representatives will be familiar with it and read it, it is precisely the President-in-Office's statement that this work on the rule of law and the promotion of human rights is on a very large scale in people's everyday lives but also continues to be the subject of these bigger conflicts. It is important that Finland is part of the solution, involved, in cooperation with other actors and organisations. But all in all the work of the Finnish delegation has been active from election observation to precisely that parliamentary work in the plenary session and the work of the committees, and it has been a real pleasure to be part of this delegation. I believe that this work carried out during the previous period will also bear good fruit for this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u9	Mr President! Free media, freedom of expression and the Internet have spoken a lot at Council of Europe meetings, as the report before us shows. In my work on the Council of Europe, I have concentrated much on the Internet and prepared a report on the right of everyone to access the Internet. This report was adopted a year ago in April at the plenary session of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe. Access to the Internet is a fundamental right. International experts have said that it is part of freedom of expression, but when it comes to services, it can also be interpreted as being part of other rights, such as the right to private life. Access to the Internet also plays an important role as an educational tool in bringing knowledge and scientific research to the general public. These rights are enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, ratified by all European countries. Internet communication is growing at a considerable rate and is still changing our societies. If we want to strengthen democracy by increasing electronic means of influence, we must ensure that citizens actually have access to these services. If part is excluded from this service, their ability to influence will fall, which is obviously not good for democracy. My report reminds us, among other things, that, while the public administration transfers its services to the Internet, it must also ensure access to the Internet for all, otherwise equality will not be achieved and inequality will only increase. Mr President! By restricting access to the Internet, people's access to society is restricted. Therefore, governments and private service providers are obliged to avoid restricting online content unless the content is illegal. States must develop Internet infrastructure to ensure equal access for all to the Internet. This will be achieved by updating legislation and by increasing cooperation with private and public actors. More research and international cooperation are also needed. As part of the preparation of my report, I have prepared recommendations for the Member States of the Council of Europe in cooperation with Riikka School, researcher at the University of Helsinki, to ensure access to the Internet. All those who wish to comment on the report in the Member States of the Council of Europe have been able to participate. Among other things, the report suggests that the Member States of the Council of Europe ensure net neutrality and increase cooperation with private service providers in order to give citizens affordable and effective access to the Internet. The progress of these objectives should continue to be closely monitored.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u10	Mr President! The Council of Europe is an important pan-European forum, which includes almost all the Member States of Europe, with the exception of Belarus, which has been considered to be so poor in terms of democracy and human rights that the country has not been able to become a member, and there is unfortunately no hope for it in the next few years. Last year, this general European development, of course, also hit the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and all the meetings last year had to deal with that unfortunate situation in Ukraine, and the same situation is still going on. As the President-in-Office has said, the right of participation of the Russian delegation was restricted. This situation is still in place and will be assessed in the light of the progress made in the Ukraine crisis, but the Council of Europe will, of course, make its contribution to calming down and normalising the situation, and so will Russia, of course, be able to regain full powers of action in the Council of Europe. This is also, of course, the path to which the Finnish delegation is trying to make its own contribution. Of course, respect for the Minsk agreement will play a key role here. Some specific features were also seen. The Council produced a report on child custody practices in the various EN Member States, and there were also misconceptions with regard to Finland, at least in the early stages, but the Finnish delegation and the active involvement of domestic officials led to those misconceptions and finally to the right and right track. It was very important that the delegation was active in this regard. Otherwise, the delegation was very active last year and cooperation with other foreign policy leaders was intensified, including the Foreign Minister and the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u11	Mr President! Indeed, because of the tense international situation and particularly the difficulties in Europe, the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly also have an extremely important role to play. The Council of Europe is the body that brings us together from our values and which also has the means to guard the progress of these values. Of course, it is important that different parliamentarians in the Council of Europe can face each other. Finns have done a good job here. We have another important organisation, the OSCE, whose chairman for the past year has been Finnish parliamentarian Ilkka Kanerva, whom we all appreciate. It is now known that Russia has withdrawn from the work of the Council of Europe following these sanctions decisions. The question is: how can we restore the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe so that everyone is there? How are we going to build conditions for Russia to come back so that we can interact? I am delighted that Chancellor Merkel of Germany has recently made a significant visit to Moscow this week. He said very clearly that he would not accept what Russia did. He has done so in Ukraine, but at the same time he said that it is important that there are conditions for dialogue. One might say that he actually came to the line that Finland's foreign policy has been building up throughout this year. From this point of view, it would be important for the Finnish delegation to take this piece of paper strongly for itself and to go for a solution that would provide a road map that would enable us to re-establish the Parliamentary Assembly to cover everything and enable dialogue. I would like to ask the members of the current delegation what opportunities they see with regard to Finland's activities so that the General Assembly can be reunited.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u12	Mr President! Finland joined the Council of Europe in May 1989. Six months later, Hungary and Poland joined, for example, Finland as the last country to join these new democracies in Eastern Europe. It has already been said here on many occasions that it is the Council of Europe's job to promote democracy and human rights. After all, the Council of Europe has been a sort of waiting room for membership of the European Union, the European Community. In 2004, when the enlargement of the European Union took place in 12 Member States, all these Member States had been members of the Council of Europe before they joined. Two key points emerged during the year of the Council of Europe's report, which I am raising here. The first is this crisis in Ukraine, which has already been mentioned here, and in connection with it, the freezing of the credentials of the Russian delegation. The second has been the Borzova report, the Borzova report on the custody of children in the Member States of the Council of Europe. Here Mr Heinäluoma asked how we would be able to restore this activity in the future, so that Russia too could be involved in the Council of Europe's activities and the mandates of the delegation could be restored. In the end, I think it is also a question of how Russia operates in the Ukraine crisis, and in this case, as we know, this custody of Crimea is the one that has violated international law. But in all situations, the Council of Europe should be able to act in such a way that Russia too will be involved in the future, because that will make a difference. I also remember the situation when, during the last crisis in Chechnya, we discussed what to do with the credentials of the Russian delegation. It was then decided, among other things, that it would be better to keep Russia as an observer than to exclude it, because it would be possible to influence it. Then, from this Borzova report, I would like to say that it now cleared up the reputation that Finland had quite wrongly. We're fine. We're fine. We're fine. It's very clear from that report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u13	Mr President! The report by the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe draws attention, among other things, to migrants and refugees and their situation. Here, on page 18, we also mention the fact that in recent years the media and certain political trends have highlighted the problems and costs of immigration for society. These other comments, as it were, suggest that this issue of immigration has not been properly addressed or taken into account as a positive development in Europe and Finland, and in that sense the statements of some of the political players have been rejected from the outset. I agree, of course, that investment in integration is important and we must offer immigrants access to education and jobs. However, I cannot agree with all these other ideas on measures, which have been taken into account in terms of substance, because they alone will not improve the situation. I do not know how much consideration is being given here in the Council of Europe, for example, to ghettoisation or segregation, which, however, has already been identified as problematic in many countries. In Finland, it is not yet much to discuss and talk about, because we do not see that problem from under the surface much. Mr President! The fact that Palestine has also been elected as a new partner in democracy in the General Assembly at the end of the year has come as a new surprise to itself on these external relations issues that we are talking about in this report. However, I cannot accept the fact that the report by the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe itself states here, quoting some sources, that the slow pace of legislation in Palestine is due to the Israeli occupation. Of course, this part of Hamas is also mentioned here that it does not respect the agreements for internal reconciliation in Palestine, but it is stressed that the greatest obstacle to democracy is the occupation of Israel. However, this is not the case, as far as I know, at least in the light of the information that I myself have collected in the past, and I wonder why the delegation of the Council of Europe of Finland has highlighted these sensitive political issues in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u14	Mr President! The importance of the Council of Europe as a guardian of common European values has been emphasised, and its visibility has increased, in particular, during 2014. Unfortunately, the reason for this is, of course, that there is a crisis in Ukraine, and also this invasion of the Russian Crimean peninsula. These have also been at the root of the Council of Europe's protests and the refusal of the rare Russian right to vote. Other resolutions of the Council of Europe have highlighted various crises both within Europe and at its borders: Isis, migration, racism, poverty and the situation of minorities. In particular, I would like to thank the Finnish delegation for the work they have shown in the report on the rights of national minorities. In this regard, the author of the report had not wanted to take account of the Roma minority as a national minority, and the Finnish delegation, and Mr Mattila in particular, acted vigorously to correct this problem in the final report. Otherwise, the delegation's report also shows that Finns have been involved in important reporting tasks and have been actively involved in the Council of Europe's activities in various responsible tasks, and in that sense we must only hope that active members will be involved in the forthcoming delegation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u15	Mr President! The chairman of the delegation, Mr Guzenina, has already given a very broad presentation of our activities during the past period, but I would like to emphasise that there are still some of the 47 countries where the development of democracy is at a stage where there is still quite a lot of room for improvement. A few speeches here mentioned election observation. It is one of the things the Council of Europe does in cooperation with the OSCE. I was personally able to monitor the situation in Moldova at the turn of November-December. The situation there is such that there are these Westernists and those who are in favour of Russia, and that has been quite a tough situation. Although the elections were free and seemingly everything went smoothly, it is noteworthy that one party was removed a day before the day of the election, the candidates were removed from the list. And when you look at how the media works, the media is not at all neutral. Much remains to be done in the area of transparency in the funding of campaigns. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the position of women and minorities on those lists of candidates was not quite what Western democracy in general is used to. Then I would like to comment on the fact that Mr Niikko raised the issue of immigrants and refugees. I have been a member of the Committee on Immigration, Refugees and Migration during the past parliamentary term, President and Vice-President: we have not only dealt there with the negative issues related to the Syrian crisis or the like, but also with how to prevent the formation of ghettos, how to invest in education, the acceptance of qualifications and, above all, how to do so. [Second Vice-President BenZyskowicz : I ask you to move to the speaking room if you wish ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u18	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma asked a very important question about the way in which we are going to get Russia to return to the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly. Indeed, they themselves have announced that they will be excluded from the proceedings of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe until the end of this year. But as early as June, the General Assembly of the Council of Europe is meeting and the current Finnish delegation – which has not yet been appointed – is going there to represent Finland, and it is very important that we hold a debate there both in the official fora and in the corridors and bring up this very wise foreign policy leadership line in Finland. It is true that if not all parties are involved in the debate, there will be no solutions to the crises. And now it is good to point out that this is indeed a general assembly of parliamentarians, i.e. the delegations of all countries, made up of parliamentarians from their countries, and the rules of the Council of Europe state that there will also be representatives of the opposition there. So the sound they hear there is very diverse. It is not only a government-friendly one, but it is also an expression of other perspectives. And that is why it is very important that the Russian delegation should also carry on this important work at the General Assembly of the Council of Europe rather than later, and in this way solutions to this crisis could be found through diplomacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u19	Mr President! I could also comment on that question, which was thrown by Mr Heinäluoma. He was the President of Parliament last season, and we had a good communication with him as well. I hope that the President of this House will also then continue to have a good dialogue with the incoming delegation. Of course, how Russia could function fully in the Parliamentary Assembly is very much dependent on the direction in which the situation in Ukraine is moving. My own assessment is that if there is no positive development, Russia's ability to act will also remain limited. Of course, it is the most important thing that the crisis can develop in a positive direction, and it will of course require not only Finnish but also all other European and international diplomatic efforts. Of course, at the meeting itself, Finns could act as a bridge builder for their own small part not only by speaking at the General Assembly but also in their own political groups. There are European groups working there. On the other hand, committee meetings are also one place to influence. Of course, all these opportunities are available to us — or those who will be present in the forthcoming delegation. One more thought, Mr President, came to mind, which I think would be a good idea to consider. Very often there are international guests attending these parliamentary general meetings, and it might actually be good if the President of the Republic of Finland, Niinistö, became a guest at the General Assembly and expressed a few of his own views, when he has otherwise been active in defusing and resolving the crisis in Ukraine. In fact, for many years the President of Finland has not been a guest at the General Assembly, so that it would be desirable that such a visit could be arranged in Strasbourg in the coming years — the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u20	Mr President! Mr Niikko raised an important issue in this report on the Middle East conflict. Hamas as an organisation represents the Palestinians in practice in Gaza and the West Bank, and the Fatah regime is officially divided on the international scene. On the other side, of course, the Israeli regime is its own entity. However, with regard to Hamas, which is one of the terrorist organisations classified by the EU, the United States, Canada and Japan, which in practice does not allow real democracy in the Gaza Strip and, for example, has driven the representatives of this Fatah organisation out of the Gaza Strip many years ago, I would like to ask Mr Guzenina what is the basis for this hard argument that Israel is blocking democracy among the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u21	Thank you. We congratulate Mr. Elon on his maiden address.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u22	Mr. Speaker! It is interesting to follow the debate around the thematics of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to compare it somewhat with what I know and feel, of course, more about my own home country through the corresponding body of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. For my part, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly includes all 57 OSCE Member States, without any of these Member States being pointed at the door. And, of course, it is also necessary to keep this concept going because the OSCE, of course, plays a key role, more central than any other parliamentary body in terms of dialogue around the Ukrainian crisis — a dialogue that no other measure can replace in seeking peace, reconciliation and reconciliation and improving the conditions. In fact, when I listened to the text of the chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Council of Europe, I wondered how closely the General Assembly of the Council of Europe focuses on certain issues, how much overlap there is with the OSCE and how much diversity there is. My own view is that it would also be quite justified to think that the Council of Europe would focus, first and foremost, on a wide-ranging security agenda — which, in my opinion, was very well spoken here by Mr Mattila when he spoke about new threats in Europe, among other things — because there is something unprecedented about the terrorist attacks on our continent, even in the immediate vicinity of Finland, which we are not used to at the moment. I think it is important that we also have a parliamentary side to these broad security concepts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u23	Irade the Talman! Jag vill också för min del tacka Finlands delegation i europarådets parliamentariska generallförsamling för deras goda arbete och hoppas att det i framtiden också kommer att kunna reserve dirt starkt som det har variantt nu.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u24	Mr President! As a member of the delegation from the European Council in Finland, I would like to thank President Guzenina and others for a very good speech. Just as a comment on this report when representatives of Niikko and Elo mentioned this Palestine and Israel case: However, I have now lived in that country for five and a half years, including on the Palestinian side in Gaza and the West Bank and in Israel. That it's really worth getting to know these things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u25	Mr President! Mr Elon's question on the basis of which the texts of this report are based: the majority of our secretariat has looked specifically at the international reports, the reports made by the rapporteurs within the framework of the Council of Europe. One very important point that I would like to make here in relation to the work of the Council of Europe is the European Court of Human Rights, which operates under the authority of the Council of Europe. In this continent, it is one of the most important bodies through which individual citizens can seek justice when they feel that their rights are not being fulfilled within their own country. It is also important to note this when it comes to Russia's involvement in the Council of Europe. If Russia were to withdraw completely from the Council of Europe, it would also mean that Russian citizens would not be able to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights and that really important route for the realisation of their human rights would be closed. This is really important to note that we are not only talking about Russia as a state, but when we are talking about their membership of the Council of Europe, we are talking specifically about the rights of their citizens, about the human rights of their citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u26	Mr President! Mr Kanerva raised an important issue here when he spoke about the division of labour between various organisations. So we have the European Union, we have the Council of Europe, and then we have the OSCE. And now, on the human rights side, for example, it is still open to the European Union to ratify the Convention on Human Rights, and I think that it should make a clear division of labour, because the basic focus of the Council of Europe is the promotion of human rights. That should be given to the Council of Europe in Europe, so that the European Union does not have to be a specific area of activity. Of course, human rights must be respected there too, but at the moment, as far as I know, the ratification of the Treaty is still ongoing, and I do not know what the dispute is about. Then, in general, this kind of concept of greater security is more important than ever, as has been noted here in the speech by Mrs Kanerva, when various crises near us are escalating. In future, the Council of Europe must also pay greater attention to the fact that the world is a safer place to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u27	Mr President! I understand, as is the case in this external relationship, if this is the objective: as is mentioned here, this status as a democratic partner for Palestine in the General Assembly has been done because it actively promotes democracy and human rights in that region. That's a good goal. You can't get away with it. However, I do not understand what Mr Guzenina said about the fact that these pickings in the Finnish report, when they have been taken up in international reports, are accepted facts which we, as facts, are beginning to interpret here. Now, if we are to interpret this as saying that the main obstacle to democracy is the occupation of Israel, which literally reads this, but we do not mention what is mentioned here, that the main obstacles to democracy could be, even if human trafficking, domestic violence or the death penalty which Hamas is constantly committing to its own citizens there, this should also be mentioned in the right light. We know that the Middle East is a very difficult region and that the problems from Finland will certainly not be solved. It has been stumbled by each country after another. That is why I would like us to have such diplomatic expertise that we would try to understand the affairs of this only democratic state in the Middle East, a sovereign state, also from the point of view that they are facing very difficult choices when they are fighting for their existence there today. Despite this, Finland, together with the European Union, gives EUR 300 million every year to the Palestinian Authority, and as has been shown by the last crises, so much of that money is going away from where it is meant to be. In that sense we should pay particular attention to such issues that it democracy develops through the control and control of the use of their funds for the implementation of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u28	Mr President! The report of the Finnish delegation rightly takes account of children's issues, including the fact that the General Assembly has worked to defend children's rights. The Convention is for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and exploitation, and it must continue to be done in the face of this. Children's rights must also be protected when a child is guilty of a crime, and this is probably timely both in Finland and elsewhere, that children are treated equally and that they also receive the best possible protection in court proceedings. Also, whenever there are these economic crises, people and, above all, children who cannot defend themselves will experience malnutrition and child poverty, child labour, and therefore do not have equal treatment in school, for example. This has been a good point here to raise, and hopefully in practice children's rights will be improved, not only in Finland but in the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u29	Mr President! This report contains a very important point on page 18, which discusses the report on the protection of minors against the excesses of sects. It is stated here that there is no uniform definition of sects and that all the activities of sects are not illegal. However, the report highlights very interesting aspects of how so-called free Christianity is located within this concept of sectarianism. And given that in Finland, for example, the majority of the population still belong to the so-called large traditional denominations but yet the so-called active population participates in the activities of the free directions, it is this view that the best interests of the child should always be the most important, even though at the same time the importance of religious freedom is recognised, and this calls for national actors to pay particular attention to this issue now. I find it somewhat worrying that the free directions that have been going on in Finland for over a hundred years are also treated as sects. I think it is advisable to deepen this definition of sectarianism and its concept.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u30	We also congratulate Mr Laukka on his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u31	I would like to thank Mr Raatika for bringing up an important point of view. Of course, we must look at both sides of the coin in all situations, and I certainly appreciate Mr Raatikainen's expertise on this issue. On what my own expertise is based, so academic knowledge and family background as to the fact that even though I am a Christian, my sister regularly lives in Israel, she has a family there, and that is how much has been done there. Finally, I would like to point out in this part of the speech what Mr Heinäluoma raised, namely that it must be possible for the Council of Europe to carry out dialogue with Russia through it, and I fully support Mr Heinäluoma's view that, in some respects, Russia should be able to become a dialogue partner again. It is not such a conflict as the one that exists at the moment, of course, that can only be resolved through a proper debate, and that requires the readiness of both sides, both Russia and then the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u32	Mr President! I say this only once, Mr Niikko, Mr Elo: I understand blind fundamentalism in the Middle East. I have studied the subject through studies in developing countries, through studies in political science. But I do not understand blind fundamentalism in this Chamber. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u33	Representative Aalto also used her maiden address, congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u34	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Mr Raatikainen for his speech and I also take it for granted that, if we want to deal with the human rights situation in Palestine or with the development of democracy, then we must also have at the heart of the debate the occupation of the State of Israel, which in no way distinguishes it from other developments in that region. This occupation in the Palestinian region affects all human and also administrative activities in that region, and in that sense the wording of this report is justifiable from my point of view. Mr Niikko then also raised the issue of the Palestinian Authority's spending and development aid. In this context, I think it should be pointed out that, under international law, it is ultimately the responsibility of Israel, the occupying state, to be responsible for the well-being of the population in the occupied territories. This is an aspect that should also be visible in Finland's foreign policy more central than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u35	Mr Andersson also made his first speech — hardly the last one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u36	Mr President! After all, we managed to make this debut at the first sitting, which is a good achievement in itself, and you took the pass very well, thank you for that. Mr President! However, Mr Andersson, the point is that we must look at it as a whole when, together as the European Union, we are trying to solve the Palestinian problem and the crisis, for example, by supporting them and providing them with development aid and resources. However, it is very clear that if funds are not necessarily used to promote the well-being of its population, then we should change our own political attitude about how that money is channelled there and how that aid is delivered there. You shouldn't be blue-eyed in this. As far as the blind fundamentalism mentioned by Mr Aalto is concerned, this was a rather absurd claim that no one else here can read or follow the media or follow situations or, for example, have visited the country. Mr Elo and I have been here a great deal, and I know people from both regions, which means that our assessment of these situations is entirely factual. This is not the intention of this report by the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe to talk about the problem of the Middle East alone, but I raised it because we should not overemphasize something as if we were here to see where the problem is, because I do not think that anyone actually sees the problem as a whole at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u37	Mr President! Finally, as long as Israel does not take responsibility for the development of the West Bank or for the humanitarian crisis that has been seen in the Gaza Strip, there is still a great need for development aid granted by Finland in that region. In other words, more should be done to pressure Israel to assume the responsibilities that, even under international law, it is the occupying state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u38	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. In this context, discussion on the 7th and 8th issues is also allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u39	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u40	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u41	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u42	Mr President! In the report, we read that Sitra is responsible for promoting stable and balanced development in Finland, quantitative and qualitative growth in the economy, and international competitiveness and cooperation. All of these are urgently needed today in our national economy, in every province of Finland. The future is not just Sitra's role as a future organisation but the role of the whole parliament and Finnish society. With regard to the three themes of this year's Annual Activity Report and Sitra, I will focus mainly on one aspect, Resource-wise and carbon-neutral society. Since I come from the easternmost bioregion in Finland, I would like to emphasise in particular that the home of the bioeconomy is in the provinces. A carbon-neutral society is resource-wise and requires a much-speaked bioeconomy. This year's attention was limited, and the report focuses on the changing needs of society caused by climate change, but also on the opportunities it offers. Although the causes of climate change are controversial, the effects are not necessarily positive either. However, it can still be said out loud that there is also an opportunity here, as the report points out about the possibilities of promoting business. The report has highlighted the circular economy as a growth sector. Biomass based bioeconomy is also a circular economy. Forests are a natural solar panel and carbon sink, it is also a carbon storer. Forests and biomasses are a natural resource which, thanks to sustainable forestry in Finland, does not shrink but grows again. Even at the moment, we have an estimated 50 million cubic metres of forest cutbacks. We need management fellings to safeguard forest yields and at the same time secure wood raw material for both chemical and mechanical wood processing. Mr President! Here we must once again highlight the provinces with their potential. In my own country, North Karelia, we are already doing more than a step ahead of the forest-based bioeconomy, and I hope that its operating conditions will be secured in the future. We need jobs and jobs that do not run off to countries with lower production costs and which are growing export sectors. Marketing and training play an essential role in this. We need training places in regions where the bioeconomy is growing and developing. Sitra also highlights local food as part of a successful circular economy. That is an excellent thing. We need more purchasing skills to take advantage of local food in the public sector. And as the report states, the circular economy is a matter of will, so the use of local food and, in my opinion, organic food in particular is a matter of will. Local food strategies should be made more courageously in municipalities, emphasising the importance, production and consumption of food and emphasising the importance of organic food. We should get rid of the food loss. Transporting food also causes emissions. Thus, as the food transported ends up in the garbage, emissions have been virtually useless. Mr President! Finally, as an enthusiastic roundman and fisher, I would like to highlight the economic importance of a series of events in this debate. Last year, those who hunted and fished on state land brought EUR 28 million in benefits and jobs for 238 man-years. Most money is spent on fuels, retail stores, accommodation and restaurants. In my opinion, this is a part of the economy and thus part of the circular economy. As part of nature tourism, hunting and fishing are a growth sector in many countries, and we also have good conditions for this in Finland. Our regions offer ecosystem services, the opportunity to refresh themselves in clean nature, but also the opportunity to hunt and fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u43	That was Mrs Kulmala's first speech in this Chamber. Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-12-ps-4.u44	Mr President! A few headlines on Sitra’s activities. Sitra has been active for 47 years. Sitra’s capital market value for 2014 was EUR 739 million and the surplus was transferred to the surplus account for the previous financial years. Sitra succeeded fairly well in its investment operations in 2014 in an unstable market situation, as investment assets produced good 9 per cent. However, in the field of venture capital, Sitra should also look at investment activity quantitatively and take into account potential losses in advance, even if it is said that it does not play with fear. It is mentioned, among other things, that last year the biggest single change took place in the security environment, as we know. The crisis in Ukraine put the traditional defence preparedness and state security authorities at the disposal of falling security for a long time near every Finnish person. Sitra has had three priorities: a vibrant human being and supportive structures, a resource-wise and carbon-neutral society and sustainable well-being and work models. During the last couple of years, people across Finland have tested the reception of a remote doctor, computer-assisted assessment of their own symptoms and so-called self-care. The aim is to move on to an early lack of symptoms and lifestyle choices. In the field of the information system, there has been talk of the Estonian model, which would gather personal, health and register data from different sources for access to one location. The use of genetic information in health care also opens up opportunities. In Finland, for example, the genetic risk of cardiovascular diseases is identified. In our country, genomic research is the world's top priority. On the other hand, there is a need to clarify the use of genome data on ethical issues and, for example, on the integration of genome data into clinical health care. We have already talked about a resource-wise and carbon-neutral society, and the aim is to respond to the solutions brought about by climate change and the sustainable development of natural resources. According to Sitra’s report, improving the resource cycle is an opportunity for Finland to reach EUR 2.5 billion by 2030. In a circular economy, the generation of materials and waste is minimised, as one person’s waste can be another’s raw material. The idea is that materials and their value remain in circulation. We too have the resources with the business opportunities of the circular economy to become one of the most competitive countries, but this is always the will of everyone. We know that the world's population is growing and the scarcity of natural resources is increasing the prices of raw materials and, of course, reducing their availability. This is where Mr Kulmala spoke highly of local food. According to Sitra, a small detail, for example, is a competitive and tasty alternative to imported fish, tuna or salmon. In Central Finland, Jyväskylä, the project showed that it is possible and also profitable to use it in public kitchens. So we're gonna have to prefer local food more than ever. I'm sure that proverb is also true: "Eat, it makes sense." Let's learn that. And a few more chapters on Sitra’s activities. Last year around 136 people worked at Sitra, and Sitra has been working hard to organise various events last year, especially technology-oriented events, under 130. The participants were mainly young entrepreneurs or investors. We remember that Sitra has also organised economic policy management courses. After all, they were almost ten years gone, but these have been arranged again in the last couple of years, and I am sure that every Member of Parliament will be invited to this course in the management of economic knowledge and economic policy, which is of course intended to familiarise us with the various economic sectors. Here are a few points about Sitra’s Board of Directors’ report last year.
