ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Tuomas Pöysti, Director General of the National Audit Office, has asked to resign from his duties since 1.10.2015. The Council of Presidents shall give its assent to the request for
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u3	Mr President! I shall now present two reports on behalf of the Audit Committee. One concerns the activities of the State Audit Office and the other concerns the Institute for Foreign Policy. On the basis of a report by Parliament's auditors last spring on both of these, it can be concluded that there is no particular problem with the activities of either, the research institute or the Agency, or with regard to economic numbers or activities, which would have given rise to a comment by the auditors or the Audit Committee. The annual reports and the financial statements are consistent and uncontroversial, and the annual accounts and the annual reports provide correct and adequate information on both the results and the financial position. In the report, the committee has, in the traditional way, assessed the appropriations allocated and their use and also the costs and changes involved. In particular, it should be said that this procedure is also important for the Agency to have a strong role to play. It has not only received tasks directly related to the audit of the activities of the various central government agencies, but also, in the context of the development of the European Union and the euro area, very important economic tasks in which, inter alia, it assesses and gives a strong opinion on the structural deficit in central government finances. The Audit Office has been organised within the Parliament in order to ensure its independence, and from this point of view, Parliament's way of monitoring its activities is through auditors and then through the Audit Committee. In this respect, this process and the evaluation of Parliament are of course of genuine importance, as no other official assessment of the Audit Office will be made. This committee's report has then drawn attention to the fact that major development projects in the state administration have proved problematic for these small players, such as the Institute for Foreign Policy. The Central Government Financial and Human Resources Service Centre, which produces financial and human resources services for central government agencies and institutions and funds, has been rather poorly placed in the activities of such small entities as the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy. The audit committee has been informed through the work of the auditors and also through a direct consultation that there are considerable problems with the quality of the financial services which have gradually improved since the coming of this year. This spring, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy has decided that it is not related to this Kieku project, which is a common state financial and human resources information system. Parliament is also involved in this, but there have also been similar problems at the end of Parliament. The reason is that the introduction has been heavy and the rather large workload has been caused by this and the high operating costs, about EUR 60000 per year. In its report, the Audit Committee has considered it important that, when the state adopts these uniform systems, the transitional periods should be invested in order not to be as difficult and problematic as they have proved to be in the case of Upi, for example. Similarly, it would be necessary to assess whether, for small entities at all, there is a need to be involved in, for example, these common economic and human resources management processes of the State, if there is a risk that the actual cost to the State may be increased. For the rest, the audit committee has no major observations or remarks, and then the actual report itself is that Parliament has no comment on the functioning of these two institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u4	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 2/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 3/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u6	Madam President! The Audit Committee has examined Parliament's audit report for 2014. After all, last year the total amount of appropriations allocated to Parliament was 138 million, of which 128.9 million were used. 31 million were also available for Parliament's renovation, of which 28 million were used. The actual operating expenditure amounted to 86 million last year. In its opinion, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has drawn attention to a number of issues. It has considered it important for Parliament to continue its strict economic policy. In the future, attention should be paid to the development of working methods and opportunities for organisational reforms. The committee has also considered it important that the costs of the renovation of Parliament are kept under control and that the correction is kept on schedule. Estimates of renovation costs have increased significantly as the project expands. The committee also draws attention to the functioning of the parliamentary assistant system. There have been a number of individual conflicts which have led to a judicial process in individual cases. With regard to the introduction of the so-called group office model, one third of the MPs have so far moved to the model. Joining the model has been voluntary. The committee considers it justified to carry out an assessment of the risks involved in the functioning of the assistance system. From the beginning of 2015, the Parliament became a customer of the Finnish Central Government's Financial and Human Resources Service Centre, Palkeen. The committee is concerned about the calculations presented in the consultation, according to which as a customer of the remuneration, Parliament's expenditure in the management of the financial and human resources administration will be higher than its own and — still — that, even in the near future, there will be no savings for Parliament, which would have been an important objective. The committee will monitor the impact of Palkeet customership on the creation of savings and the development of the quality of services. Mr President! In conclusion, the committee concludes that, according to the opinion of Parliament's auditors, the annual accounts and the annual report provide correct and adequate information on the results of Parliament's activities, in accordance with the provisions in force in Finland on the annual accounts and on the annual report, and that the information contained in the annual report and the annual accounts is incontrovertible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-09-ps-30.u7	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that Parliament's auditors have also taken a look at the transition to Palkeis, our Central Government service centre. There is no doubt that we should also monitor how much administrative tasks are created indirectly for our staff, to calculate the costs of the remuneration and also the indirect costs. Often, in these situations, there is a problem of passing on costs, but then, in many cases, tasks remain to be carried out in the original unit, or in some cases they may even increase indirectly within the day-to-day lives of our officials. I hope that this will be followed closely over the next year.
