ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u2	Madam President! This government proposal is, after all, a very technical, minor correction of the firearms legislation. In fact, our country's firearms legislation has been reformed several times in recent years. The changes have often been made on a very fast schedule, and one might say that at times, with almost panicking reactions to what has happened. Every shooting at school or other shooting with guns is always a serious matter, and it must be taken seriously, I am not saying it, but it is often forgotten here that the cause lies in something other than our arms legislation. I understand the majority of the reforms that we may have made over the last eight years, but I believe that there are already a number of problems and ambiguities in our legislation which can already significantly complicate responsible and safe shooting and shooting and hunting. I understand these tightening ups that are now under discussion with regard to the conservation of weapons. They are also widely understood among enthusiasts, but starting shooting sports, for example, is already very difficult in this country and also getting into hunting. I also believe that, in certain circumstances, the acquisition of a weapon has been made unnecessarily employable by the authorities, and it is not even justified in terms of safety, for example, to demand that all new weapons be shown to the police. In fact, the legislation goes so that anyone who has a licence for a similar weapon can see that gun and even do so by taking, for example, 20 guns on their way to the police for inspection at a time. The question is whether this is already questionable from a safety point of view. In my opinion, a sufficient guarantee that the gun and the license will be met is that the weapon has been purchased from a legitimate arms dealer. The obligation of evidence, that is to say this duty of evidence, to the police, could only be limited to situations where trade takes place between, for example, two individuals. Secondly, I think it would be justified to reduce the scope of the firearms licensing procedure, for example, in situations where an old licensed weapon is renewed into a similar type of newer weapon, i.e. without an increase in the total number of weapons. The authorisation process for such a situation is currently unreasonable and completely unnecessary. I personally hope that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Petteri Orpo, will also be active in this sector in the midst of all other work-related activities, so that our arms legislation will be moderated where it makes sense. Mr President! The European Commission is also planning to tighten up the arms legislation. The changes in legislation and this debate are the result of acts of terrorism in France, which would mean that the arms directive would be tightened up by a total ban on authorised, self-loading weapons, which is precisely the weapons that are used in large parts of, for example, reservist shootings in Finland. In fact, even this reform would have no bearing on the illicit weapons that are usually used in these serious cases. For example, Mikko Halkilahti, Chairman of the Finnish Federation of Reservi Officers, has raised this concern, and I think it is very important that, although this decision is taken at EU level, we are actively following in Finland, because we have a different defence solution from many countries based on a large reserve army, where, for example, reservist shootings are an important part of securing this good defence capability. I hope that we will not go into legislation that prevents, for example, this hobby, which is extensive, well-controlled and determined in Finland, as is the case with reservists. Our situation is different from that of many other EU countries, and in this situation we must recognise and recognise our own special position and ensure that we do not make a mistake in EU legislation here, too, which would endanger, for example, this valuable hobby for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u3	Madam President! Representative Heinonen made a very good and comprehensive speech on arms legislation in Finland. There is cause for concern about this new European Union arms directive, which is planning significant tightening up. Even we go so far as not only to talk about self-loading and serial firearms, but to talk about how the weapon looks, whether it can be interpreted as a military weapon. And we must definitely resist any changes that make it difficult for shooting enthusiasts and hunters in Finland. Our current licensing policy is very strict. Let me give you a personal example: I'm a retired officer from my background, and the last time I applied for a gun permit, I had to go through the same procedure as everyone else, and I was finally told that it was difficult for you to grant a permit because you have not taken any of these safe shooters' courses. At this point I said if it could be interpreted, because I have the right to fire and fire all Finnish infantry weapons from a pistol to a anti-tank missile, that I could also safely handle the pistol. And, fortunately, this could be interpreted. I believe that this authorisation procedure should be simplified and we could seriously consider, for example, moving to such a gun driving licence. It would allow the holder of the licence to acquire a certain number of registered firearms under his control, and this authorisation procedure would only be used to all its extent once.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u4	Mr President! Mr Heinos and Mr Kärnä had very good and well-founded speeches. Last time the Arms Act was reformed, this was done under a huge pressure of publicity due to these school shootings, and yet the situation was that under the old Arms Act neither school shooters should have been allowed to acquire and possess the gun in question, but the guidelines for harmonising arms licensing practices were confusing the use of sound common sense when the authorities were wondering who was fit to acquire what kind of weapon. That example of Mr. Kärnä’s, which can still go on being foolish, was very illustrative. But what was also symbolic was that when the reform of the arms law was discussed in this Chamber and there were a huge number of points that had to be changed in committee, there were points that were incompatible with the Constitution, there was still at least one very questionable point about which I voted in the House: there was an indication in the Arms Act that the right to act as a firearm instructor would cease if the gun instructor died. I voted for the Chamber on it, but the overwhelming majority of the Parliament felt that such a point in the law should be. I do not think that would have been necessary. And then how many weapons a man can have now depends on exactly what he is engaged in and for what purpose they have been acquired, and it cannot be that the fifth or sixth or seventh or eighth weapons would then be the dangerous weapon if there were more of them already.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u5	Madam President! Representatives Heinonen, Kärnä and Mustajärvi spoke very well. Indeed, once this government has promised to abolish the standards, it would be a good thing for progress to be made in this area as well. Of course, I understand that under all this pressure it has not been possible to implement it now, but arms procurement regulations and licensing regulations really would have to do. A personal example of his own son when he acquired the first hunting weapons, or, in fact, parallel permits for them: It took a thousand miles to get all the blocks tested and papers ready. Five different visits to the police station and a thousand kilometers. I think we need to be able to work a little lighter on this. And everything that has been said about this new proposal for a directive is strongly signed. Of course, you could say with a smile on your face that you buy pink paint and My Little Pony stickers on your side of the gun, and it may not look so wary then. But the fact is that we must not adopt provisions that hinder normal hunting or shooting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u6	Madam President! All the good speeches in this regard, I will not take any more of the position on that legislative act coming from the EU. Now this change, which is being made, is justified, and it always needs to be corrected. But I would like to raise this point when we talk about a possible reform of future legislation, that we must take into account the measures taken by the police authorities at present to classify start-up weapons as a firearm and to allow them to do so: it is something that is scandalous what can be done in this society. We have official dogs that are used in police activity, we have certain breeds that are required to establish this barbarity, and this is confirmed by a starter weapon. And when it comes to a gun that doesn't leave a bullet that can't be used as a gas gun either, because it doesn't have a pipe, it's kind of shocking to think that hunters, service dog enthusiasts, would have to apply for permits for starters. At this point, when this new arms law is perhaps to be reformed already during this period, we must take into account the need to lighten, but not lightly. And of course, as Mr Kalmari has said here, the colour can be changed — we can go to the hardware store to see if there are even pink hammers — but the pink weapon does not change its character, but it must still be taken with the seriousness of all these matters and admit the fact that a series of crimes are committed with a gun and they are extremely regrettable. It always keeps everything in mind, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u7	Mr President! Mr Kärnä's speech and, in fact, all the speeches have been good and worthy of support. This responsible arms card, or whatever it is called, is a good idea, and I wanted to understand Mr Kärnä's speech in such a way that he, too, was not setting the limit on the total number of arms that some were in favour of, but precisely so that the card could justify a certain amount and then be some other step forward. As Mr Mustajärvi said, there is no justification for making any criterion that five guns, seven guns or something else. We have very different situations, and responsible hunters use different weapons in different hunting situations. And that is why such preparation, which I know is planned in Finland too, should quickly whistle out and trust Finnish experienced hunters to bring new young people to these hobbies and vice versa. All in all, in order to speed up this process of authorisation, I have thought that the fact that someone is acting in integrity and responsibility, without a criminal record, without any problems, should be a sufficient guarantee and a sign that he can acquire a new weapon. This could also release police resources to pursue real criminals where there is a need, and not to run such permits or questions. I went to answer questions myself, and when they asked if you felt bad behind your back, I honestly answered that not only do I feel but I also know,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u8	Madam President! I just wanted to say that Mr Heinonen understood my speech perfectly correctly: I am in favour of legislation and authorisation procedures which are specifically capable of releasing civil servants' resources and making this overall system reasonable at some level. It makes no sense that every time a hunter or a shooting enthusiast acquires a new weapon every time he goes through the same procedure. It just doesn't make any sense. Mr Myllykoski also raised a fundamental problem. It is sad in some way to go to start-up pistols for permissions, or even to suggest that such weapons - looking and blazing equipment should be banned on some miraculous basis, even though these are very important to chicken dogs in that hobby activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u9	Madam Speaker! Hunting and shooting sports, if any, are hobbies that increase responsibility. They have very clear rules, they constantly require that the enthusiasts be very specific in their accuracy, know how to play together, how to manage it and how to comply with all their common rules of play. If anything, this increases to the responsibility that is necessary when talking about firearms. Therefore, because it is responsible and requires responsibility and teaches responsibility, it must be given opportunities and not constantly blackmailed. I fully agree with what has been said that the current system of permits has already gone to excessive levels. It should be dismantled both from the point of view of the hobby, of course, and also from the point of view of the administrative pressures of the authorities. It is quite clear that the licensing authority, the police authority, has more to do than to be represented in the block test with Heinonen once and for all, over and over again. It makes no sense at all, but the idea that we could carry out such a weapons driving licence, after which the acquisition of new weapons would be subject to a lighter procedure, is certainly worth considering, a worthy idea which I hope will be explored. Then, of course, there is the particular difficulty of having handguns, and now we must always remember that handguns are, in many cases, much safer than long-piped weapons, and here are two examples: one is the catching of small predators, which is absolutely necessary and which is not done by any other than hunters who control alien species. The second is the provision of official aid for large-scale game, in which there are very different situations in the middle of traffic, in the midst of settlements, to help the police officer in his work. Yes, these short guns are much, much safer than long ones. Therefore, attention must also be paid to the need for short-piped people to perform these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u10	Mr President! Congressman Myllykoski referred to crimes committed with weapons. However, the previous round of reform of the Arms Act dealt most with the rights of persons under the age of 18, and yet there was and is now a situation where no homicide has been committed with the legal weapon of a person under the age of 18. It is quite interesting that a person under the age of 18 may use a gun but not owns it, but a parent who does not actually have any connection to its use may own but not use it. Well, you can relate to which one the risk is higher. In my opinion, it should be the case that when the gun was previously, before 18. The acquired person must redeem or redeem his weapon and also his rights, and he would have a free license round at the time that within three years he does not have to pay twice for the same thing. But we have over 300,000 hunters. When you add shooting sports enthusiasts and gun collectors to it, you get to half a million people, which means that this is an extremely important matter for the big target group.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u11	Mr President! Now that we have heard mainly from the members of the Arms Party — I am not surprised in itself that people who know that they are honest and considerate are annoyed by the various difficulties in acquiring a hunting or shooting weapon — and so that the picture is not now incomplete, however, I would say that, in terms of the number of homicides, for example, Finland is between Western Europe and Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u14	Madam President! Representative Hassi should examine the manner in which these homicides are committed in Finland. The most commonly used weapon in homicide is a blade, not a gun. And when a firearm is used, it is most common for an unauthorised firearm to be used; in fact, it is relatively rare for authorised firearms to be used to commit homicides. We have a good example of this prohibition policy and its effectiveness, for example with regard to small arms, from Great Britain, where it was decided to carry out a very large-scale official operation, when all small arms were banned from the public. What happened? Then the crimes committed with small arms exploded and these weapons became some type of status symbols for criminals. This development must definitely be avoided in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u15	Mr President! In short, only to Mr Hassi, when he referred, or actually asked, that these sensible changes will be accepted when they come up: the easiest way to get good, effective arms law and develop it is to genuinely involve these groups of enthusiasts in the preparatory work, hunters, shooting enthusiasts and gun collectors. They have so much more skills than officials who are not necessarily in genuine contact with weapons, hunting, shooting sports in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u16	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kärnä has already answered the same thing as himself: when homicides are brought up, it is honest to say that they do occur mainly with knives, bread knives, but fortunately it is not yet proposed in this Chamber that they should be banned and made subject to authorisation. But it is true that, unfortunately, this is the case. Family killings may be the ones where legitimate weapons have also been used, and that is why this legislation, which is being adopted today, is also aimed at ensuring that the weapon is not so easily used, for example. And I personally hope that, in situations like this, when the threat comes at home or when the situation gets worse, it will also be very active among the families themselves and averted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u17	Mr President! As an active reservist, a sports shooter and a hunter, I would like to thank you for this debate, which has included a great deal of good views and comments on this important subject, but then without falling into the subject of gun populism so often occurring. It is very important that the current good leisure opportunities can be secured with the minimum of bureaucracy but without compromising security. Good speeches have been made here on how safety can be guaranteed and how security is not guaranteed by bureaucracy but by good practice, by the right legislation and, in particular, by good practice. It has been a pleasure to listen to this debate, and I believe and hope that the debate around the subject will continue in this good, constructive spirit. That is how we can secure this safe handling, storage, authorisation, the whole process, but it will not be guaranteed if this goes on that traditional gun-populism track.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u18	Madam President! There has been a very good debate here, and Mr Heinonen and Mr Kärnä have also made an extremely good presentation about this model of cards. This would be just the way forward. And when you think about what the representative Leppä also raised about what is a hunter in society, I also want to emphasise that we are hunters or not ourselves, so much contributes to our everyday life that we have active hunters who do this work, unscrupulous work, year after year, and in that way also train young people into it. So it affects us all in one way or another to maintain the balance of the game. And then there is a lot of shooting enthusiasts who do it for other reasons and interests, as well as hunters are involved in reserve activities. It must be remembered that, inevitably, any such tightening of legislation will have an effect on our regret for the defence spirit in such a way that, if we are constantly tightening up the opportunity to engage in that weapons activity, then the will to defend the country may also be under test.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u19	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u20	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 7/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-06-ps-60.u21	Madam President! This government proposal and the unanimous report by the committee are to be welcomed. It is proposed to introduce a law on urban rail transport, which therefore concerns metro and rail transport. At the same time, provision is made for a supervisory fee and also for: The Finnish Transport Safety Agency is the authority responsible for their operation. It is good that there has been a unanimous report in committee on this issue, in which the opposition has also been involved. But when it comes to transport, unfortunately, it seems that otherwise the government's transport policy is heading straight for the brick wall and there is not much consensus. After all, the opposition has had to put an intermediate question on the government's transport policy. These disproportionate train purchase service cuts will be very fatal for many regions — both in Pirkanmaa, Ostrobothnia and especially in Eastern Finland, including Central Finland. For example, North Karelia, Joensuu, is quite completely bagged. And now that much has been discussed in recent days precisely about the status of the provinces and it has been confusing to follow this debate — when the Prime Minister said on Tuesday that there are no crises in the government, and then yesterday evening we heard that the crisis is so deep that he is considering going to the President, and today it has been announced that an agreement is about to be found, but we have just received the message that, in fact, agreement is very far removed and trust is practically non-existent among the government parties in the government, so I ask the representatives of the government parties present today, given that the position of these provinces has now been fought for, have not the stakes that are now being used in the government to combat this battle, it would have been worth investing in ensuring the status of the provinces by securing this train, the purchasing service traffic which you are now cutting. This could be ensured, for example, by reducing one-fifth of the planned reduction in car tax.
