ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 1 December 2015. In the debate, Katja Taimela Katja Hänninen has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 1 December 2015. In the course of the debate, Mr Nylander, supported by Mr Blomqvist, has raised objections to proposals for statements 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u4	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate will be opened by Mr Gustafsson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u5	Mr President! Yesterday, the university people showed a broad sense of mind against the government's cuts in education. These demonstrations took place in Helsinki, Turku, Tampere, the University of Jyväskylä and the University of Eastern Finland -Joensuu campus. Yesterday the annual award of the Union of Scientists was also announced. They're calling it. [President MariaLohela : Representative Mr Gustafsson,wait a minute so that the Chamber can be calmed down. — I would ask the representatives to move on to discussions outside the Chamber so that we can continue to deal with matters here. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u8	Madam President! After all, Mr Gustafsson has said a full and weighty thing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u11	Madam President! Today, the Social Democrats and the rest of the opposition are opposed to these university cuts and say that experts in this area, university people, professors, do not think they are sensible. Who's gonna like it? But all the other days you are opposed to all other cuts — this is the real problem. Yesterday I was at the seminar in Radkas, where constitutional scholars said that the weakest should not be cut. If we fail to make all the savings in education and college, will we make more savings for the sick, the elderly, families with children and others?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u14	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Zyskowicz pointed out that the government has made the choice of values, that it cuts a lot from education and universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u17	Madam President! In recent days, Minister Stubbia, by the opposition, has been very severely accused of misinformation. He's made a mistake in his management record speech on Thursday, admitted it, apologized for it. I want to answer the ex-Minister Niinistö: The chairman of your group is talking about lying in this connection, but the biggest lie of this autumn is that you are supposed to have a kilometer allowance to compensate for cuts in education and school. It's a bunch of humbug. But once again, I am offering an opportunity when there are many green people here: turn me into a translation of how the 140 million will be paid for the kilos.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u18	Mr President! The SDP’s alternative budget provides an alternative to these training savings. It's an indisputable fact. It is in black and white, unlike many other things that have been said in the past. But, Mr President, on this matter. When the opposition, under the leadership of the SDP, raised a mid-term issue of educational cuts this autumn, we were concerned that with these decisions Finland's level of competence would decline. At that time, the Minister of Education and many other government parties accused the opposition here of intimidation. Now the OECD has warned that the development of Finnish education, skills and skills will stop. The OECD has warned that the development of skills in Finland will stop. Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance has apologised for these cuts in education. How do you feel about how you feel about this apology? Have you ever thought that you should do the same thing? What are you going to do about these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u19	Madam President! We have heard experts from the Committee on Finance in the Section for Science and Education, and of course these savings, which concern early childhood education, basic education, secondary education and higher education, research, are difficult and have their own impact. It's obvious. It is important that these effects are now monitored as closely as possible. But we are in a position to save money in these major sections of Finland. I do not think it is wrong to say that we need the euro more, however. This does not mean that we do not appreciate the important work that is being done in the field of education and research. I have noticed that, for example, the SDP's alternative budget, which is so research-promoting, would take half of the capital of the Finnish Independence Fund on the eve of Finland's 100 years of independence. How will it contribute to research and development if Finland's most important research and development unit is robbed, Mr President? There's no way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u20	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz translated the debate into Minister Stubb when there was a need and reason to discuss the role of education and research in Finland. I expected both younger and older statesmen to say something to this. I now have to repeat this key issue. These cuts to higher education are so large that they endanger the jobs of 3300 university and university workers. It is therefore irresponsible and absurd to claim that savings of this scale would not jeopardise education and research. That is why we are so concerned about this. And then, what was the promise of the presidents in the run-up to the election? There will be no more cuts in education, because the savings had already been made to the very surface,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u21	Mr President! Yes, it is a Social Democratic Pharisee at its peak. You were the minister, Mr Gustafsson, when the index cut was made in 2012, the index cut in half, the index freeze in 2013, and there is still more length on the list. It is true that there will be drastic cuts in the field of higher education that will leave their mark, and there will obviously be at least favourable cuts in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u22	Mr President! According to the University of Helsinki’s own press release, the savings for them during the last government period amounted to EUR 13 million — the savings for this government amount to EUR 100 million. Of course, we made savings on education during the last term of government. For example, I myself had to study the situation of polytechnics more deeply than anyone else, and we made corrections so that most of the polytechnics were quite satisfied with the outcome. Yet, we were aware that those cuts were taken to the very limit, also due to the contraction of the age groups. But the fact that we're going to double it doesn't serve the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u23	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, you have been a real cutler in education during your ministry of education. And you certainly know how painful and difficult the situation in this economic situation is for the Minister of Education and for the government as a whole, when there has been an operation on the site of education. I hope that the Greens will really open up their shadow budget so that there will not be such a misconception, altered truth for the public, that there will be money somewhere and that there will be bad will when education is cut off. But I would like to ask the Minister for Education, when the University of Helsinki really has huge savings, the pharmacy compensation will be abolished and the University of Helsinki will have to bear an excessive burden on whether there is a possibility that a solution will be found to this – this applies to the 2017 budget. In this way, this excess might be avoided. I would suggest that this is indeed the case. In the Committee on Finance, however, these savings have been carefully reviewed and we consider it important that the government and the Minister of Education carefully consider that these savings do not affect the quality of education and research. But it will be really, really difficult to act and do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u24	Mr President! Universities have been subject to savings since the 1990s. We know very well that there was first this kind of central government savings program that has been used to cut staff and administration, and last season and the previous period has been cut from universities. But, good government, what you are doing now is that you are causing Finnish universities to have the biggest negotiations in the world than they have ever had in an independent Finland. In the capital region alone, 1500 university teachers have to be dismissed. This cannot be without affecting the quality of Finnish higher education and research. And given that a high level of education and research and innovation is, however, the one that small Finland can manage in the world, it must be said that the government does not make an impact assessment of its savings here either. You plunge Finland into a class society and deprive us of the prerequisites for success on the international market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u25	Let us take Mr Andersson, Mr Lindtman and Mr Räsänen before the Minister responds, and then we shall continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u26	Mr President! First of all, Mr Kivelä and Mr Sarkomaa: The fact that bad decisions have sometimes been taken in the history of Finland is no justification for continuing a bad policy that is destructive to civilisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u31	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to remind Mr Kivelä, who here criticises these decisions of the previous season, that it is true that the Finns of Peru were against all these educational savings,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u38	Madam President! The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament understands the need to balance the economy, and that is why we have also supported the government on many points in these objectives. But there is no point in making cuts, such as savings, which undermine the conditions for economic growth and, at the same time, make it more difficult to actually break the sustainability gap. I'm sure there's a need for more efficiency in the higher education field and universities, and we need to look for it. But it must be said, in the interests of honesty, that these cuts, which hit the university field, are excessive. That is why, in its own alternative budget, the Christian Democratic Parliament has put forward a larger budget than that proposed by the government in relation to the university and higher education fields, and I hope that the government will think very seriously about this, not making the disservice for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u39	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u40	Madam President! In that sense, we are in this Chamber in the same boat, that in recent years all the parliamentary parties have participated in and participated in educational cuts. Former Minister Gustafsson and former Minister Kiuru, you were quite the contractors in this regard with regard to the cuts in education, For years we have been discussing the need for big solutions, big decisions to balance the Finnish economy and to stop Finland's indebtedness and turn Finland into a healthy economy, and in these efforts and on this journey we are now in this government. I myself, Mr Lindtman, have been very sorry on various occasions, and I am also very sorry that we have to make major cuts in education today, and they also seem very difficult for me, because I have spoken for education in my entire career of political and social influence. But at the same time as we are in this situation that these cuts have to be carried forward, I have pointed out in various contexts that these cuts will become the most damaging if they are made on the basis of a cheese planer principle and from there they will have to be strangled. It would make much more sense for us to be able to carry out policy and structural reforms that would build stronger centres of expertise, a clearer division of labour universities, a clearer profile of universities where knowledge would be brought together, and thus find structural savings, including through cooperation, that would not harm or harm the core of higher education and the quality of higher education in Finland as little as possible. I believe that this is possible — and this same project has been promoted by many of the previous education ministers — namely that we can make progress on this structural development and that progress has been made. Now that the situation is particularly difficult, it is important to take even greater steps forward in that work, and this valuable work is now being done at universities all over Finland. The Government has requested proposals for this development by February. I also hope that the opposition will support this development and this important task of increasing the quality of Finnish research even in this difficult situation. I am not saying that the situation is easy, but I believe that there is a great deal of potential for us here. I do not want to belittle the input of any researcher, nor the people who work at universities or universities of applied sciences. They do an excellent job and often a much longer working day than the average. What I would like to draw attention to is the way in which these universities operate and the way in which they operate and the structure in which the Ministry of Education and Culture has a role to play. This is what I have drawn attention to and requested, last Friday at the Council of Professors' Union and in a number of discussions with university and university of applied sciences, proposals on what we could do more at the Ministry, and also on the way in which:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u41	Mr President! I must say to the Minister at the outset that we are not in the same boat. We are certainly not in the same boat, because it has just become clear here that the savings for the University of Helsinki over the last period amounted to EUR 13 million, and you will save 100 million for the same group. We're definitely not in the same boat. During the last term of the government, there was a mid-term question about the training cuts of 2.7 billion, which were actually done with a very painful heart, but when you do not cancel anything, instead you put the training cuts of 3 billion on top of it, I can tell you that we are not in the same boat. I find it terribly important to say that now that we are in a situation where the university and university of applied sciences have lost trust in you, I think it is a really, really big deal. There have been no demonstrations before by the college people, there has been no worry as it is at present. I really hope, Minister, that you will be serious under this threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u42	Mr President! The Social Democrats are really opposed to cuts in education, to cuts in social security, to cuts in employment appropriations and to more or less everyone else. At the same time they present a huge investment package for mold schools and so on, very good things — but. Then you promise more than 35,000 jobs without any increase in the tax rate, and yet you promise that the amount of government debt will not increase from what the government has announced or entered into its budget. This is a completely unimaginable entity that cannot be functional. If you had achieved a translation of the Finnish economy through these own measures last season, I would like to thank you, but now you cannot do it because you took 25 billion more debts last season and the number of 100,000 unemployed was what grew last season. I think you should go through the basics of this policy again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u43	Madam President! As far as this propaganda is concerned, which is not true, Mr Kankaanniemi is concerned, you have had a week to familiarise yourself with our alternative budget, where by making fairer choices and investing in jobs and growth here and now we are creating growth. President! Unfortunately, I did not hear in the Minister's speech that he was in any way sorry that there was a promise that there would be no cuts in education, and yet this government is doing a huge cut of EUR 3 billion without cancelling the previous ones. This is a really big deal. Instead, the minister once again focused on criticising the previous government, the opposition, and I do not see a solution here. You now have the power, the government parties. It has been acknowledged here that these cuts are harmful. This was done, among other things, by representative Sarkomaa at the University of Helsinki and representative Kivelä. Now that you have spent these weeks of regret, have quite rightly withdrawn the crazy performances, are these savings in education not the ones that we will achieve growth in the future by cancelling them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u44	Honorable Speaker! It is not news if I say, or if Members of our parliamentary group say, that these cuts in education are difficult — we have already said so during the last parliamentary term. We believe that we should now be on a boat together and look for solutions to create new jobs and entrepreneurship in Finland, to increase tax revenue so that we do not have to be in this serious situation that we also have to make budget cuts. I think it is very important that Parliament gives its strong opinion, for example in the report of the Committee on Finance, that the government also considers how to safeguard the quality of education and research, and there is certainly much more to do. But I am very disappointed that the opposition has spoken out in favour of education with such a big mouth. I honestly expected your shadow budgets that there would have been a hint or advice to the government, but nothing was found. I very much hope that the Greens in particular will now open up their shadow budget and tell us where the money will then be found in the savings in education. If it's really there
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u45	Madam President! It is confusing to hear now that the representatives of the government parties have found no alternatives at all in the shadow budgets. We went through some of them in this room last week. We also looked at this relevant alternative option presented by the Greens in their alternative budget to reduce the overcompensation of the kilometric allowance for training cuts and opened it with a twist. I am ready to do so yet, but it may not seem enough for a minute, because the representatives of the government parties still do not understand what is going on. But 140 million have been presented as an alternative target for saving. It is strange, however, that Mr Grahn-Laasonen also suggests that they should be forced to cut back on education, as if there were no other means of allocating savings. Yes, they have been presented, but I do not know whether the Government Party has been listening to them at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u46	Madam President! This debate is typical of conversation when times are difficult. It is clear that when a nation is living fairly in debt and production falls, as one representative wisely said on this matter, if the nation no longer invests but eats our own capital all the time, then that road will end and very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u47	Värderade fru talman! It is extraordinary that the words'must be cut' are still being heard here after last week's debate, in which five opposition parties in different ways suggested that these cuts should not be carried out, and this can be resolved in another way. So now, in order for this debate to be honest, I would suggest that the representatives of the government parties now remove these words from their Vocabulary and use the word 'choice', 'we chose this way', even if you say that you think that professors are lazy or that teachers spin their thumbs, because they may then be the appropriate arguments in this situation — the choice is, there was no 'took' to this in any way. Mr Hoskonen asked about this growth. There is a relatively large consensus that if education is cut off, the conditions for growth are also cut. And I would ask Sarkomaa if she was actually reading these alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u48	Mr President! It is true that the application of the university index has been uneven over the last period, as can be seen from these arguments in the draft law. However, measures are now being proposed which go much further than in the past, i.e. the university index being presented for freezing in full for the period 2016-2019. This is a really negative signal to universities, research, top education, students and ultimately society as a whole. If you in the government now wish to intervene in these indices, could you do so at least one year at a time? When you do it this long at one time, this backwardness may prove to be much, much greater than is now estimated. That's why I'd like you to consider each year at a time. Indeed, it seems a bit now that the government does not want to believe in university education and research that requires a long-term approach. This is a very sad thing for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u49	Madam President! I am very sorry that here the representatives of the government parties, in particular the representatives of the coalition, have made very provocative speeches about the opposition's alternative budgets, the opposition's options and then walked out of this Chamber. Mr Zyskowicz, Minister Grahn-Laasonen and now the newest representative, Mr Sarkomaa, have left. So this debate is now a very one-sided one again, just as it was when we had this alternative budget debate here. Even then, representatives of the government parties and ministers walked out of this hall. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, before he left, said that this is about balancing the economy. Well, education cuts are such that now that through these we are balancing the economy and making hard value choices, hard savings, these are again direct future cuts. These are going to come back at us tomorrow, these savings decisions, what we are going to do today. I am sorry that this debate is once again turning into a very one-sided debate because the representatives of the government parties do not want to participate in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u50	Madam President! I'm going to go after Congressman Marin. It is truly, truly amazing for a Member of Parliament to be in a situation where you speak to almost empty ranks of government parties and there is no minister present. Let us consider how Finland could rise from this point of view. We need new jobs. How do we get these jobs? We get by innovation, we get by knowledge, we get by focusing on it. I think Mr Adlercreutz's speech was absolutely excellent: let us stop talking about 'joining', but let us talk about the fact that you made a choice of values, and when it comes to the fact that these things are'must', that is just not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u51	Mr President! This is probably why some of the members of the government party have left, when you do not have any good medicines for employment and growth, you are simply opposed to everything. It is true that the whole of Finland is struggling with unemployment. It is also reflected in the public sector. This is a very bad thing. Tuula Teeri, President of Aalto University, says that there are research areas that were current 30 years ago, but they are no longer. Now we need to anticipate future skills, and now universities are forced to step up their efforts. I do not know which boat Mr Kiuru is sitting on, but there is no money on the Finnish boat. Now we have to make things more efficient and do things differently. And it is a real shame that savings Finland is also targeting cuts in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u52	Mr President! This is exactly the case — as several Members have already said here — that the government is always required to have an alternative from the opposition and then, when the opposition is presented, the other group will leave the Chamber and the group that appears to remain here has not listened to those alternatives. Representative Huhtasaari, we can go to that diner and go through the options of the SDP by hand. Two things, which is why we need to talk about these training cuts: The first thing really is that before the elections, everyone promised, and some even after the elections, that there will be no cuts in education. Yet a different choice was made, and the government made this choice of values. Now you should be here on the basis of that instead of sneaking around somewhere else. The second point is that, in terms of our economic growth, these are precisely the future cuts that Mr Marin has been talking about here. Now we are cutting that success for the future. Finland has always relied on a high level of expertise, and this is how it is broken down. And lastly: When it is always said here that there are no structural reforms in the opposition, I would ask now that, well, what is the government's view of these educational restructurings? Obviously, your only structural reform of education is that thousands of staff are being laid off from universities and universities of applied sciences.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u53	Madam President! Mr Räsänen's speech is easy to agree with. Indeed, at the Studia fair yesterday and today, many young people wondered what their future is in Finland. Unfortunately, the future of these young people in this process is very much inconceivable as a result of these decisions and their effects. There has been much talk here of structural reforms. The universities understand what structural reform means, the universities of applied sciences understand what structural reform means, what cooperation means. They are prepared to cooperate, but that cooperation and reform cannot be done if the carpet is pulled out of the way. The cuts of nearly 3 billion — how will these reforms be implemented? There's been a lot of talk of alternativeity. Here we have a few more of these available. Here is the option of the SDP, and I'm sure the Greens will find their own option and all the other opposition parties. The alternative we have is that this package should not be built in this way. This is an unreasonable package, it is wrong, it is unfair, and the Finnish future and the young people in Finland are suffering first and foremost from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u54	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Adlercreutz made a good speech when he said that it was a question of choices. Here, in particular, the SDP, which has experience in building budgets and alternative budgets, I would ask you to tell us which of your expenditure increases in comparison with the government proposal are the ones you will choose to remove in a year's time if you went out with your shadow budget, because there were 400 million quite clearly such one-off — Sitra, which would otherwise also be the cause of the negotiations there, and so forth — and another 400 million financial taxes and nonsense that would come out of the revenue of the grey economy, which no one would believe in with the percentage of multipliers you put forward. In other words, EUR 800 million is very much in the air, unfortunately. These 400 million one-off items are, at the very least, such that you must tell us which savings cuts you would return in a year's time if we went with you. It's a difficult situation for everyone in education. You may also see it in this part of the hall with regard to this percentage of participants, but at the same time, as mentioned here, it is also true that a bad place teaches you how to cool where it hurts the least, so I believe, for example, with the knowledge of the University of Helsinki, that it should be here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u55	Mr President! Indeed, the question is how we think that growth and new jobs will be created in Finland. That's what this whole thing is about. We need revenue, tax revenue, we need credibility that Finland will succeed. That is why education is a key issue so that we can tackle the issues that will be needed in the future. We have a climate conference in Paris now. If it succeeds and succeeds, climate-related investments will quadruple in the world. Skills are needed to achieve this, so that we can be involved in these investments. So the question is that we need to understand and see what we can do by investing in Finland and Finns survive. The second point is that we also need these rapid measures, here and now, and it will be targeted, among other things, at this 400 million plus the withdrawal of the cuts from the weaker ones. They are the ones that stimulate growth here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u56	Mr President! The freezing of index increases is a painful thing. No one wants to cut out of education, but the economic situation is serious, and that needs to be understood. In the previous period, there was severe surgery, which, unfortunately, is the basis for these cuts. The alternative budget has left in mind the drastic tightening of energy tax. It'll take the last jobs. There was very little realism in them. But how could the financial situation be improved if education is considered? Education exports are one great opportunity. I would like the opinion of the opposition on this. For example, if we go to New Zealand, where the fifth largest export is education exports, the revenue of billions comes from it. It's one of those bright spots that can be thought of in the future. We should not just be working on each other in this Chamber but trying to find these bright spots, how to make more money for education and refresh the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u57	Mr President! Somehow I feel so bad, it is precisely because I feel bad that people here who make decisions do not take any responsibility for them. Working and being in government means that you have every opportunity to make political decisions and political choices, and it is up to the opposition to tell us whether these choices of values are right or wrong from our point of view. And that criticism must be endured, because for this purpose you have the power that you are also obligated to the people to open the foundations of these decisions. We are now asking you what is the point of such large-scale cuts in education, when all the competitiveness studies seem to be the opposite, as is the OECD study of the decisions taken in the early 1990s of the recession, which genuinely invested in research and product development and higher education. Now you are doing exactly the opposite. The Social Democratic alternative budget is based on the simple recipe that knowledge creates growth. That is why we do not accept these cuts in education and we have financed them as part of this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u58	Mr President! Mr Kiuru here recently said, and others said that 3 billion will be cut from education. It's not the right number, and it's the wrong way to count.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u61	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u62	Madam President! However, there is a need to take a certain perspective on this issue. Of course, it is sad to do all these surgical procedures. In particular, I experience it very badly at the University of Helsinki, which is my own dear alma mater. But let us remember this perspective when it is said that 25 years is one generation — about 25 years ago I completed my own — how much volumes have grown out of it. They didn't know how to dream about things like what they are now. The budget for higher education has virtually doubled in practice in the 21st century. That is a great thing, but since the development of universities, the development of universities, is a long-term job, this will have an impact on the fact that we are stuck on the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u63	Madam President! It is really sad to hear how members of the governing parties, one after the other, give evidence of how they do not understand science policy or universities at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u68	Mr President! When these options have been discussed here, I think it would also be good to recall what this government option is, which will enable us to achieve employment and growth. Thus, when opposition parties in these different alternative budgets have made additional contributions to education, employment management, investment, the government proposes that we, through cuts and reductions in wages, get employment in Finland and the economy growing. I think it is quite clear which of these options is a more credible way of increasing the number of jobs. When the Minister and other representatives here have justified these cuts in education with the savings of the state budget and the need to break down debt, the majority of these criticisms, which have been expressed against these cuts, have been made precisely from an economic point of view: it has been said that these cuts are a threat to our competitiveness, they are threatening to cut economic growth, they are an obstacle to the creation of new jobs and new businesses. Finally, when Mr Sarkomaa said that he was disappointed with alternative budgets, I am disappointed that, in this situation, the Minister does not even have time to sit here until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u69	Mr President! Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, if that speech of yours is a picture of the level of respect for government representatives, then you cannot necessarily be surprised that not everyone is there. But I am. Mr Adlercreutz did make a good speech. Yes, I can see that universities are doing valuable work, and this is what I saw as a fosterer of Turku and the University of Helsinki. On the other hand, however, I am somewhat surprised, even sad, by the contributions made by the Socialists here. You do not think it is appropriate to cut the low incomes unduly — I agree with that. The middle-incomers should gladly be left alone — well, that's the way it is. But it is strange that even high-income academics are completely untouched by the Labour Party, and development aid should also be increased. It's special. Social Democrats are nowadays like this red non-party in all matters. The Constitution defines that basic cultural tasks must be carried out by universities. If and when that happens, I am pleased that even a child of a low-income family will continue to be able to enter a university and a cultural flourish.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u70	Mr President! I certainly would not have believed that the Finns of Peru are talking here at this level about the Social Democratic option, in which we defend education widely, we defend universities and we are really concerned about these OT procedures and about people being thrown away. This is a very serious matter, and the government party should be slightly more humble on these issues. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is not that the opposition is being insulted, used here, but that the responsibility must be borne. The big problem with the government's own option is that the government does not do any job creation here and now. The only thing you believe in is the mandatory laws to cut wages from a laborer, a woman who could have an impact at the earliest in 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u73	Mr President! The answer to who is responsible is clear: The Government is responsible. The government also assumes responsibility for education. The problem with the opposition's shadow budgets is the unrealism of income funding. This debate will certainly become déjà vu. We had this debate at the beginning of June. Here I noticed the title of an online magazine like this: "Did I hear correctly that the SDP cut out secondary education more than the government?" This is the title right here. Minister Grahn-Laasonen wondered about this at the beginning of June, when it was discovered here that from secondary education the demos cut more than the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u74	Finally, Mr Gustafsson and Mr Lindtman, and then we will continue the debate on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u75	Mr President! In that speech by Mr Turuse, there was a great deal to be said on the sidelines and misinformation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u80	Mr President! I'll tell you one more time what's been repeated here many times. The Finns of Peru are now not withdrawing any of the decisions they criticise last season when they have gained power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u83	Then let us continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u84	Mr President! As Mr Gustafsson said in his own speech, yesterday the Union of Scientists announced its election as an obstacle to the science of the year. This year this questionable honour was given to this government and the measures put forward by this government which are despoiling universities and research. One of the most important is the massive cuts in funding for universities and basic research. The Government's proposal to freeze the index of higher education institutions throughout the parliamentary term is one of the key ways in which this destructive policy for education and research is being implemented. Between 2016 and 2019, the combined effect of the freezing of indices is estimated to be around 160 million in the whole higher education field. In addition to these savings, the higher education institutions will be hit by cuts in next year's budget, the abolition of the reimbursement of the pharmacy fee, and I made a huge cut in the funding. This government is now proposing to freeze the indexes for the entire parliamentary term. This means that savings will remain in place even if there is a positive change in the economic situation. If the economy recovers, the cost level will rise but the position of higher education institutions will become more difficult if the index freezes are in force. A fairer way to save if you want to make savings would be to freeze the indices separately each year. This has also been emphasised by the Committee on Culture and Education in its own report. Such a course of action would at least give the university field some hope for a better one. The professors union thinks that the freezing of indexes now There is a very negative signal to universities, research, top education, students...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u88	Mr President! These cuts in university funding have a significant impact on the basic tasks, teaching and research of universities. The basic functions of several universities are becoming paralysed. In addition, several universities have started negotiations to reduce staff. At the same time, universities are required, among other things, to teach throughout the year without additional funding. The lack of index increases for universities of applied sciences jeopardises the quality and effectiveness of their basic statutory tasks. The universities of applied sciences are currently implementing their multi-annual adaptation programmes. However, they are committed to taking responsibility for the reform of the Finnish economy through profiling and closer cooperation with different higher education actors and with employment and industry, and many universities of applied sciences are very impressive in doing this. However, this is not possible if the economic basis is not long-term. Now all of this is in danger. It is particularly regrettable in this proposal that these impact assessments are almost entirely missing. That is what even the Constitutional Committee intervened in, and it considers it necessary, due to the shortcomings of the impact assessment, that the OKM carefully monitor the actual impact of the cuts in the basic funding of universities on the functioning of universities and the ability to carry out its tasks. It is also particularly important to monitor the impact of a significant reduction in basic funding on the quality and conditions for the implementation of research and on the level and availability of research-based education. I therefore very much hope that the government will be ready for repairs, even if in future budgets, because it is quite clear that these effects on Finland's future and new innovations and development will be quite devastating.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u89	Madam President! The government's proposal to freeze higher education indices is without view. That has already been noted in this debate today, but also before this. This cuts over 100 million from universities and well over 50 million from universities of applied sciences. The freezing of the indices as a whole — i.e. cuts of more than 2 billion to education and education — does not increase Finland's competitiveness, but does exactly the opposite. The direction chosen by the government is something quite different from the objectives it sets, and also the election promises that it is good to remember here and there. The government claims that the cuts force universities to develop and reform. In the real world, the development and reform of the Finnish educational system cannot be carried out under conditions where the Finnish education system is being wrecked by cuts, under conditions where there is any doubt as to whether the higher education institutions will be able to perform even those basic tasks. This concern has also been expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as has much been discussed in the Committee on Culture. The government has not properly assessed the actual impact of the freezing of indices. Currently, the estimate is only for 2016, but it does not tell the whole truth about 2016-2019. It does not say how much social debt and civilisation the government is leaving behind. The cuts in universities directly affect education and research and the quality of both. Moreover, many universities are forced to reduce their staff due to index freezes, which has not been too much so far. A multi-annual adaptation programme is currently being implemented at universities of applied sciences. The universities of applied sciences are committed to reform and to better cooperation with other units, as well as with employment and industry, so it is pointless to say here that they do not want to reform or make structural changes. This reform is still not possible if we are constantly cutting and not prepared to invest in new forms of education. That's what we're looking for. Leaving a huge negative signal of more than 2 billion in total and sending out to universities, research, education, current students and young people who are still looking for their future is shortsighted — it is simply shortsighted. It sends the wrong message in a time when research, education and knowledge are the keys to success. We need expertise in Finland, we need research in Finland, but above all we need more respect for civilisation here in Finland very clearly. Looks like it's missing now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u90	Mr President! The Finnish recipe for success has always been that even in difficult times we have been able to invest in education, research and knowledge. On the basis of this recipe, the level of competence of Finns has increased over the decades, and we have become rich as a nation as measured by all indicators. The OECD has stated that the recession in the 1990s and the political decisions taken during that period were precisely those who in reality brought much more competitiveness to Finland than would have been the case if they had done otherwise. During the deep recession of the 1990s, when the money was out, the then Prime Minister Lipponen’s Government decided to support the process of restructuring and the creation of new growth by investing in education, knowledge and innovation. At the same time, Finland went through a major change in the industrial structure, but growth began when it was genuinely accelerated by investing in knowledge. Investing in new growth was worth it, because bad economic times followed a time of growth and economic stability, and it is precisely for that time that we are very grateful to look back to the past. Mr President! It is true that the previous governments, both Prime Minister Katainen's and Mr Stubb's governments, were forced to make savings in education. That is only surprising, it is very strange that when these savings were also criticised under the leadership of the opposition at the time — that is, under the leadership of the centre and the Finns of Peru — and, according to the intermediate question that was put, the savings of 1.7 billion were regarded as excessive savings and savings which degrade the national knowledge base, we are here in the Chamber to say that these savings were not cancelled, but that the new government decided to make savings of 3 billion on top of it. It is good to say that we have already stated in our own work in the Civilization Section that savings of 2.4 billion on the Ministry of Education plus other savings on funding for science and research and innovation will result in savings of 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u93	Mr President! In its report, the committee stresses that the freezing of index increases in 2016 is a major feature of the whole educational and cultural process. These proposals contribute to the seriousness of our country's economic situation and, in particular, to the need to balance public finances. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes in its opinion that there are serious shortcomings in the impact assessments of the proposal. It is therefore important to carefully monitor the impact of cuts in basic funding on the quality of research. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs reiterated that the economic activity and inflation of the remaining years of the current government may be higher than estimated, so that the freezing of the index may cause even a large budget lag. It is therefore important to monitor the annual consequences of the freezing of the index. It is good to refresh your memory and note that some EUR 200 million were cut during the previous term of the university of applied sciences reform. This corresponds to around 20% of total funding. The savings now being made are, to a large extent, so painful because of the cuts made by the previous government. Saving measures require structural and operational reforms from universities. Higher education institutions can facilitate the tight financial situation through projects to expand the funding base. The additional return made possible by the capitalisation, the planned tax deduction for donations and the very central improvement of the conditions for education exports can also bring significant relief. Finally, in line with the committee's proposal for a statement, it is important for the government to monitor comprehensively the adequacy of university funding in relation to the tasks assigned to universities. And again, Mr Gustafsson, education can be regarded as an investment in the future rather than an expense.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u94	Madam President! The government always uses force and fear of debt to justify its own proposals. That is what Mr Ala-Nissilä spoke today on these same grounds. However, the government is not obliged to carry out massive cuts in education that jeopardise future growth, knowledge and Finland’s competitiveness. We have heard these various speeches here on several occasions, for example, referring to Finland breaking this kind of magical debt threshold of EUR 100 billion, and yet it has been shown that this has not happened, even though it has been referred to several times in this Chamber. However, these cuts do not have to be made, because these are the very cuts that jeopardise the competitiveness of our future. These university cuts, the freezing of indexes for the whole parliamentary term, are a clear choice of values. It is a choice from a government that decides that it wants to balance the economy precisely by cutting off the future. However, these are not terribly sensible cuts because when we cut off the future, we cut off the potential growth that we could achieve if, in this time period, we dared to take sensible decisions and invest in such things as education, higher education, knowledge and research. We are living through a significant change in the structure of the economy and a transformation. Similarly, we live through significant changes and transformations in working life and work. We are in the middle of big changes such as digitalisation, robotisation and other such big trends. It is precisely the fact that we are investing in education, knowledge and research within this time period that would help us to respond, for example, to these changes in the future. So it is a question of investing in the future when we put money into education, and that is why cutting from here is dangerous in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u95	Madam President! However, in front of all these paintings at the end of the world, we must remember that Finland will continue to be a society that invests in education. The Finnish success story is spectacular, and the idea remains the guiding principle — the idea already born of Snellman — that a small nation has the potential in education, knowledge, civilization. This will certainly continue to be a leading point in the future, despite the fact that there will be severe cuts. This bill — when adopted — will by no means mean the end of university and university education and research in this country,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u98	Madam President! Finland is standing on the edge of Europe. At the time, joining the euro has taken on the competitiveness of Finland. We must ensure that, for example, jobs in the pharmaceutical research industry do not move away from Finland to Sweden or Denmark or eventually to Europe in a more competitive country, because it is in the field of research and innovation that we would be able to cope with. According to the business delegation, the Finnish level of science and research has fallen short in the 2010s and international competitors have overtaken Finland, especially in terms of innovation potential, Kiuru and Gustafsson, although the SDP has been on the board last season. Success in international competition requires cooperation between industry, universities and research institutions and international networking. A great deal of work is still needed to commercialise our innovations. Minister of Economic Affairs Olli Rehn has stated that Tekes' financial instruments will be reformed to support the commercialisation of research and knowledge. The Government also invests in education exports. Obstacles will be removed from all levels of education and tuition fees will be introduced for students coming from outside the EU and the EEA. Finnish universities will now have the opportunity to offer paid studies. The money is left to the universities themselves. International research funding is also highly competitive. Finland should actively apply for funding from international foundations, among others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u99	Mr President! It is good that I have received this reply because I think that we should speak as things stand here in the Chamber. And now, Mr Huhtasaari has said that our field of research has collapsed. That is a really cheekless argument, because I happened to be the minister responsible at the time when a study was carried out on the state of research and science in Finland, and that study does not say what you have just told us. It is good to say that Finland has a lot of strengths that we could be much better at by investing in, and we are investing significantly in innovation and research. A couple of years ago, we were still around the third in the innovation effort, but the fact is that we could get even more when we were doing this more systematically and in a more planned way. But Finnish research is a very good level, a study has been carried out on this, and I hope that the representative will stick to the facts in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u100	Madam President! The business delegation at this level of science and research suggests that, since everyone else has passed us, everyone else has moved on, we have stalled. That's what I'm talking about. In terms of innovation, Sweden and especially Denmark and the Netherlands have long been ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u101	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u102	Madam President! I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would like to remind you in this debate that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has unanimously delivered an opinion on this constitutionality and has considered cultural rights and the autonomy of universities. And if this legislation had been unconstitutional, then it would have needed a constitutional order. This, too, plays a role in assessing these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u105	Well, I see there's still a lot of comments to make. — Mr Gustafsson, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u106	Mr President! It is always interesting to listen to the speeches made by the new representatives. Mr Meri is new to me in such a way that I have not listened very much to him. On one point I agreed, two strongly disagreed: It is always okay for me to talk about history — and it is good to talk about it — as deeply as possible. I don't think there's ever too much history in this house. Then this, when you referred to someone talking about the government being dismissed: Well this is an academic question. Of course, Sipilä's government will not be directly dismissed, but if the scientific community finds that these savings, cuts, are so big that more than 3,000 people are likely to be made redundant, then of course it is the government's decisions. And then this, that you have to make savings: This also seems to me to be the case for persons who are now well educated,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u107	Madam President! Mrs Mere's speech was well-founded in all other respects, but I would like to note in the Minutes that the vote is on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u108	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Gustafssoi; yes, I think it is good to talk about history in order to avoid making past mistakes again, so that there is an awareness of what has already been done and how these decisions have been made. But in my previous speech I stressed that the fact that someone else has made bad decisions sometimes is no reason to continue with that bad policy. I also agree that no one here has claimed that the government would resign directly. But I think it is extremely important for the representatives of the government parties to understand the consequences of the cuts and savings that are now being made. Unfortunately, they force universities to seek savings also at the expense of staff. Finally, on these escapes and choices: perhaps the most important value choice this government has made was in the government programme when you stated that the tax rate should not rise. Sampo Terho said that this was an important issue for the Finns that taxes did not rise. This means that you chose to purely adjust public finances by means of cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u109	One more reply, by Mrs Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u110	Mr President! I asked for a reply when Mr Meri said that this proposal was not unconstitutional. I would like to make it right that this is not unconstitutional, but we are in a special situation when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes a stand on index cuts. That is why I think that this is a central issue, which is why we need to discuss here. It is very interesting that, when the Constitutional Committee has assessed, as the university law is based on the fact that universities are autonomous and have sufficient financial autonomy, the Constitutional Committee has now assessed this angle in relation to these rather massive index cuts and has found that these effects have not been sufficiently assessed and therefore these effects should be assessed. I think that when you fixed this line and went through this, this is exactly how it is. That is why it is very historic that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a position on it with this funding, whether it is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u111	Let me now turn to the reply by Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u112	Madam President! I am pleased to hear that we are now in agreement that history should be discussed. Surely we are now in agreement that everyone can use their own adjectives and verbs, as long as no one is offended. I welcome the fact that these legislative proposals are being brought to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because I remember that during this spring, when the government programme was published, there was a great deal of debate that many points in the government programme are unconstitutional, and that document is of course not a bill of law. It is very good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should take a position on these issues, because otherwise it would be easy to debate here, that this is not constitutional and that there is no position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this. We genuinely in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are having a debate on these issues. I, too, will try to get this political self out there and reflect on these from the point of view of the Constitution, but of course no one can completely break out of it, but perhaps to some extent the values of their own will.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u113	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u114	Madam President! The amendment of the university law and one article of the Polytechnics Act, which is under discussion, has indeed prompted such a debate that it is necessary to participate in this. Firstly, these savings from the Ministry of Education and Culture: of course no one is enjoying them, that is clear now, but it is only so in this country and in all economic affairs that Parliament, through public spending, can influence what is happening in this country, and that option of debt-taking has once and for all been exhausted in this country. If anyone still imagines in their wildest dreams that we could still be in debt, then we are facing Greece at the present time. We must make changes in this country. One change is that we need to step up our own activities and make more work done with less money in the various areas of central government. The second thing that needs to be done is, of course, to improve competitiveness. The famous competitiveness leap from which the Prime Minister Sipilä has spoken a thousand times, that possibility still exists. I am very sorry that today's reports show that this social pact has fallen. I find that decision questionable with regard to the social partners. I would have liked those organisations to have understood the seriousness of the situation. The situation is so serious now that we are constantly being watched from abroad, what happens to our creditworthiness. If that credit rating is weakened, it is visible every day in the everyday life of our Finns, students, families with children, pensioners, the whole of Finland. That is why this issue has to be brought to an end once and for all, and it cannot be justified for some cuts in the car tax to be used to fill the deficits that have arisen in the budget. It seems that the car tax cut has been used so many times that there is no more of it, not even that distribution reserve mentioned by Mr Kivelä, which has already gone with its root mulch. I would like this debate to be a little more realistic and to understand where we are going. Guess your own condition, give respect to others too, said President Mauno Koivisto of the Republic in his day, and I wish that this same wisdom would now be in all of us. In this country, debt continues to rise at around EUR 5 billion, and what is most worrying is that investment is falling. If there is no investment in this country, there will be no new jobs and no tax revenue for the state. These go hand in hand like first-graders to the school road, just like this. If there is no investment, then there will be no tax revenue from the state, and there will be no wage taxes on jobs in the state treasury or in the municipal treasury, and then there will be no improvement in the pension security of the persons concerned. If this is not something we are gradually beginning to understand here in this house, then there is a rather strange situation. Then at least we have misunderstood our own mission and have not done what we have promised. Investments must be mobilised, and so that when we currently have the situation in Finland that... [President MariaLohela :EdustajaHoskonen, this has been done with the amendment of the University Act and the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u117	Madam President! Education is a matter of which Finland is known. Education is part of our national report. Only with a high level of expertise has a small country been able to compete globally, and that has been our asset so far. In Finland, it may have been proud that anyone has genuine access to quality early childhood education and higher education, regardless of family background or wealth. The success story of Finnish comprehensive school will be familiarized with further. It is therefore amazing that the government of the city centre, the National Coalition Party and the Finns Party has chosen education and research as one of their biggest cutting points. At least EUR 1 billion will be cut from education during this term of government and this will be justified by the fact that it must be cut regardless of the consequences. In reality, there are alternatives to allocating savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u126	Madam President! This debate about whether it is appropriate to use the word'must', whether it should be replaced by the word 'choice', I was wondering there and I came to the conclusion that the word'must' is so negative that it would not be good to use it. But it is a question of choice. The opposition said that the government said we had to cut, but in fact it was a choice. I think we should leave out the word'must' altogether, but let us talk about choices. That is why I have launched this package of KKE laws. Let us not talk about forced law, but about the KKE law package, that is, the act on promoting competitiveness, by the way. Let's leave out all this coercive stuff then. In an earlier speech, Mr Kiuru said that the government had every opportunity to make decisions. It's true. It is the government that has the keys to power in its hands, both this government and the previous government. At the time of the previous government, Mr Gustafsson, then Minister of Education, set up a working group that outlined university education for the years 2015 to 2020: 2015 to 2020. This working group considered both the content of the teaching and then the funding. Was it that Antti Rinne was also involved? I think he was also a representative of Ihalainen. I'm not sure about these, but this one was a socialist. As a result of this task force, much more would have been cut than the current government would have cut. When Mr Gustafsson spoke just now, Mr Gustafsson ended it by pointing a finger at me and asked if he would get through. Did you get this, Mr. Gustafsson?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u128	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! In his speech just now, Mr Halmemenpää considered it a particular sin of the government — I wrote it down somewhere, but I cannot find it here — that the government is specifically cutting out education and research and that this is such a conscious and vicious election of values by the government. This statement by the Greens that the government is specifically cutting off — or he used the word 'root' — education and research would be more credible if the Greens were not in opposition to all other government savings in this Chamber with about the same words. It is not many days since we heard the Greens, under the leadership of Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, criticise the fact that the government is cutting specifically and precisely from low-income pensioners when they are linking the housing allowance for pensioners to the general housing allowance. It is not very long since we heard the Greens criticise the fact that the government is specifically and just cutting out families with children by interfering with child day care, expanding groups and limiting subjective day care rights. It has not been long since the Greens have announced their opposition to savings for the sick, because the most vulnerable people should not be cut off. And we all know that the Greens are absolutely brutally opposed to cutting out all the poorest people in the world by saving development aid. In other words, Mr Halmenpää, this is a complete bluff, this is your speech that the government is, in your opinion, cutting off education and research. The situation is, therefore, that you are opposed to everyone, virtually everyone — apparently to be quite specific in these words — to the government’s savings and, on different days, you always tell here what is at issue, that this is what the government wants to do, and this is a terrible election of values for the government. That choice of value from the government is that we cannot continue to indebtedness at the current pace. The Greens feel that we can continue and that next year we can take on more debt than the government budget has to take, but it is precisely the way that we live on debt that will cost future generations a great deal of money. Of course, I too believe that these savings in education and research are very unhappy. And I really do not believe that they have any positive effects, and I certainly do not want to do them. But when you are responsible, as Mr Gustafsson knows very well about the last parliamentary term, you will have to make very difficult savings decisions that you really do not want to make. And that is what we are talking about, for example, with regard to the universities we are talking about here and the savings in education and research in more general terms. The Greens have argued throughout the autumn that they have an alternative to these savings in education. The alternative is, they say, to cover the savings in education mainly by pinching the kilometric allowance. I acknowledge to Mrs Halmemenpää that she was at least trying to justify how this EUR 140 million, which has been reported here in the Greens' alternative budget for next year, could be obtained by pinching the kilometric allowance. I give you credit for even trying. But in law, there's a term like a worthless company. And without going further into what it means, however, I would like to say that this company of yours was a so-called worthless attempt. Let's see how you thought this would consist of: First of all, there was a reduction in these kilometer payments. When today it is 44 cents per kilometre, then, if the Tax Administration decided that it would be 35 cents per kilometre — which may otherwise be quite justified — I personally believe that there is overcompensation in kilometer payments, then I personally believe — in practice it would not be a private employer who would pay 44 cents but would pay 35 cents and a public employer. Well, how much of this billion that goes to kilometer payments is civil servants driving? I don't think so much. In other words, the savings that result from this will be made by a private employer. Then, according to your thinking, this will generate tax revenue for the state. Well, let's count. If we're going from 44 to 35 for example, I think it's a cut of about 20 percent. And if this 20% were to be cut, how would the 20% corporate tax rate be about 140 million, or a little less, if it were to be thought that the state would save? Could you please, in this debate, as far as the President allows, or in any other debate, make a real contribution of EUR 140 million. In my opinion, it is entirely ghost money, it is certainly not available. Then this would mean that companies would pay more, i.e. more than duty-free and these workers would pay for it in their income tax. As I said, I do not believe that any company or public authority would then pay more than the amount of its Tax Board. [President MariaLohela : Representative Zyskowicz, I remind you only that the recommended length of the interventions does not exceed 5 ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u131	Then there are a few replies. First up, Congressman Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u132	Mr President! I think that with Mrs Zyskowicz in this Chamber we do not need to continue this debate, but I am happy to continue it and to direct you to the next body to discuss this alternative we have presented, so that you can understand what this sum is, because it is estimated to be. This calculation is based on what the Ministry of Finance has estimated at an annual level to be the result of overcompensation and how it would be recovered from it to the income of the State. We have not proposed that the government should simply cut off education, and I have not said so in my recent speech, but that the cuts in education are very massive and it is a choice that the government should allocate one of its largest cutting packages to education, and that is how it is when you look at the sums of cuts. It is true that the government is targeting cuts on all those who are weakly able to defend themselves: so low incomes,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u133	Mr President! I was somewhat confused, Mr Zyskowicz, by the fact that you outsourced yourself from these decisions taken by the government. But I understand that — and I respect you as a wise long-term representative of Parliament — you see for yourself that there are no grounds for all decisions that go far into the future. It bothers me in this whole debate that somehow it is thought that this parliamentary decision-making, based on government proposals, would be a puzzle in which these pieces of the puzzle would be as if preordained. This is not the case, and that is why I think it is important to hear how we would cut this puzzle into pieces and assemble it to carry it as far as possible. That is why I think it is a pity that we do not genuinely see this constitutional angle when it is pointed out from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that these effects and the price tag on their effects have not been genuinely evaluated. I think that this is a risk that these decisions, which are now being taken, will go further than Finland, especially since it has already been warned that the level of competence will be halted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u134	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz brought this car debate, which is not directly related to this — it is linked to the fact that the Greens have put forward an alternative to these cuts. I would like to remind you, however, that I always want to go ahead with my vision and not with the memory of the old, but if Mrs Zyskowicz says that this is an unacceptable proposal, then I would like to remind you of the last period and the government which was in the process of approving these structures which are cutting travel costs and adapting them to the real cost structure. When I was a left-wing MP of the Government Party, I did not approve of cutting the over-composition myself, because I think it is very important for business, sales and backpackers to have access to these compensations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u135	And one more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u136	Mr President! I would have liked to take the floor earlier in this Chamber to reply to what Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Grahn-Laasonen have said, but unfortunately then that reply would have been heard deafly when you marched out of this Chamber earlier. I would have liked to give you an answer in relation to the fact that you here took away the debate on these cuts to universities in this position of Minister Stubb: I would have liked you to have had this debate within the government as well. After all, the opposition has demanded here that we want the Prime Minister's announcement of these discussions, which Mr Stubb has said in this Chamber and which is not necessarily based on the truth. That is the kind of speech I would have liked to make to you. I very much hope that you will have this debate within the government so that we can hope to have it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u137	And now we're going to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u138	Mr President! I have to say that when I was watching this conversation in my office, I thought that I might not be provoked, but I did not. And it is good that once a day blood pressure rises — makes a man healthy, and feels necessary. It is quite true that cuts are being made, and during the last term of government the Left Alliance was in the government that had to make certain cuts in line with Mr Gustafsson's views, and they were painful. But under the parliamentary elections, everyone saw that this trail has now been completed. There have been so many people in this room who have witnessed it to themselves. At least I hope someone's had little nightmares about what was said in the run-up to the election when I took a photograph of myself and put a note on my chest: "No training cuts." Now we're facing that choice of values. I do respect Mr Turuse's turn to not talking about having to, this is a choice of values. We are now taking measures that do not force us to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u143	Mr President! Yes, I said that we would rather not use the word'must', because there is so much negative download, we would rather talk about choices. In no way did I talk about value choices, because value choices will then be quite different from choices. Yes, our economic situation is such that we have to look at these savings a little everywhere, and practically the government has made the choice that everyone should take part in economic activity. Then it also means training. Of the previous speech, one thing must be corrected: when I spoke about the fact that Mr Gustafsson has withdrawn this working group. I'm sorry I couldn't get that old e-mail out of this iPad. But when Mr Gustafsson said that he does not know what I am talking about, I have now tried to remember it and I am sure he is right. The name was on my memory so I took it from my head. I am sorry if I have been wrong about this, and I apologise to Mr Gustafsson for linking you with this kind of sure speech to the leadership of this team, which apparently was not true. If this was signed for, it's fine. As for what Mrs Myllykoski said about Luke's financial cut, I agree with this. As far as Luke is concerned, this emphasis could have been so personally in my opinion, with Syke and Luke thinking that more of those savings could have been put on Syke's side than on Luke's side. But this is what has been done. But the government's top projects, Mr Myllykoski, do not be alarmed. It's in good shape, it's getting faster and stronger. Next spring, we'll start seeing what's real.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u144	And there is Mr Zyskowicz on the list, and if there is still room for short debatation after Mr Zyskowicz, then of course it will happen. Now according to the list, Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u145	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää denied that he had said in his speech that the government was cutting education and research, or that the focus of the government's cuts would be there, and he said that he meant that the government would cut so much training. I also think that the government will cut a lot of education — I will soon return to outsourcing myself from these savings; not outsourcing — that is, much cutting, and can say that too much. Of course, we all hope in this Chamber that these savings could have been avoided. But, Mr Halmemenpää, when you are also opposed to all other savings, the question for you is: if the savings in education had been reduced by EUR 100 million, where would you have directed these savings so lacking, when you are also opposed to saving the elderly and pensioners and families with children and day care and everything to which the government is proposing savings? Or is it really the case that you think that even though we are living in extremely challenging times in the Finnish economy, even though we have a huge budget deficit for many years in a row, we do not have to make any savings, it is enough to take that 20 million out of the private doctors' Kela allowances, which are mainly used by middle-income women when they visit gynecologists, for example once a year, to cut them off. That's enough? Yes, and $5 million from the military, it was also in your alternative budget. Do you really think that in this kind of time, when you go into a billion deficit year after year, it is enough to make these few ten million savings? Maybe you are. Congressman Krista Kiuru said that it was a bit like I outsourced myself from these savings. I'm not gonna do that. I take responsibility for all the government's savings, I defend them, I vote for them and I sword for them in any forum. I was just saying what the truth is that I myself would have liked to have been able to place a different emphasis on these necessary savings in some respects. Of course there were negotiations on these during the Government Programme negotiations, and I was involved, but of course it is not possible to open any further. Of course, these can always be emphasised a little differently, but this option of the SDP, that when you don't really have to save anything, is not an option. Mr Marin, there has been a debate within the government on the subject you mentioned, and the government will not issue a communication or the Prime Minister's announcement of Mr Stubb's management record statement. I have read in the media that you in the Social Democrats are considering an interim issue. I'd say go ahead. At the latest, every Finn will see that you have been struck with complete speed blindness in this matter. But when it comes to cuts in education, Mr President, it is still necessary to draw attention to what the SDP put forward before the elections. At the mouth of President Antti Rinte, you presented your party's economic programme, in which you proposed an adjustment of EUR 4 billion during the parliamentary term. 3 billion should be decided immediately, in these times and a billion later, and 2 billion of this 3 billion adjustment would have been managed by the SDP by cutting expenditure and then by tax cuts of one billion. Now I have to ask: what would you have saved and cut the $2 billion from? When I have looked into your alternative budget, I have not found these savings of EUR 2 billion per year. On what, Mr Kiuru, are you now calling for the savings of EUR 2 billion, in accordance with this programme which you have told the public in the run-up to the elections? It would be very interesting to hear. And it would be interesting to see how you even make $2 billion in savings without having to save anything from school. Or would you be willing to save money from school? In this election programme presented by President Rinne, you were of the opinion that EUR 270 million would be saved from the fall of the reform of secondary education during the last parliamentary term. Now I do not know, I ask you sincerely if you are in favour of this savings. If so, tell me. If you're not, then it's good to know. In other words, even in the run-up to the elections, you felt that you should tell the public what is going on, that you also proposed EUR 2 billion in savings. Mr Kiuru, please inform us where the EUR 2 billion will be saved. And I'm talking about savings, not tax increases, but savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u146	Mr President! Well, Mr Zyskowicz has come to see that there are no structural reforms in his own package. We Social Democrats already asked in June where all the structural reforms that could have balanced this economy in the long run are. I understand that not everything can be charged to the table next year. So it is that we do not want to see genuine structural reforms carried out so quickly, but you do not, for example, have any proposals to raise the employment rate here at all. That is why it has been so bad for you to want to make these savings, to make such drastic cuts. That is why we have challenged you so that, in this alternative programme, we have withdrawn this government proposal we are talking about today, namely the index freezes of universities of applied sciences and universities for the entire term of government, and we are able to make an economically balanced proposal. Since today we are talking about universities, I hope, Mr Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u147	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, I did not deny what I have just said. From word to word, it is amazing that the government has chosen education and research as one of its biggest cutting points. That's not the way it is. I didn't deny it. The Greens' alternative budget is based on a two-term economic and employment restructuring programme. We do not think there is anything to fix here. We want the employment rate to be raised to 74%, because the development of employment is the most important thing in order to get public finances in order and to put an end to government indebtedness and to the sustainability gap in the economy in some way. We will adjust the economy more moderately because it supports this objective. Juha Tervala, a researcher in economics at the University of Helsinki, has suggested that the government's cutting policy slows down economic growth
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u148	Mr President! I would like to ask Mrs Zyskowicz whether there is, therefore, any representative in the government who would support these cuts in education in the form that has now been proposed. You also said here that you consider these to be excessive. I have not yet come across one of the representatives of the government party who would think that these cuts in education in their present form, this whole class, would be good. When you all agree that these have been overcompensated when they have received enormous criticism from the Confederation of Finnish Industries and Etla, why are you not even prepared to moderate these cuts in education, research? Why do you insist on policies that no one, even from the government parties, is prepared to directly support and defend in this Chamber? As far as Mr Turuse's speech on these choices is concerned, let me repeat once again that the Finns of Peru made a key choice of values when you stated that the tax rate was:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u149	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz is a bit of a little bit of a master. Two hours ago, when we were discussing universities and universities of applied sciences, you launched a debate on relations between Stubb and the opposition. Then you'll be here in two hours and you'll start a debate on the green alternative budget for kilometer payments. In the next speech, when there is still a university of applied sciences issue on the list, you will start to hold an alternative budget debate on the demars option, which took place here a week ago. So I think this is a rather ruthless conversational culture,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u150	I would like to draw attention to the use of language.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u151	Mr President! Of course, reference is also made to your alternative budgets, because this money has to be taken from somewhere. This is a rather confusing debate when nothing should be taken and even debt could not really be taken up, or I am not quite sure on your side now whether you would be adding that amount, but the fact is that over 5 billion more next year will be eaten more than we are making. In order for us to have education of the highest quality in the future as much as anything else in this society, we must certainly make this economy right. If I had hoped for anything over the last few days, then you, the left-wing opposition, would have influenced your strong interest groups, mainly now the ACP, in order to achieve a social agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u152	Mr President! The representative, Mr Turunen, spoke here earlier that everyone was involved in austerity measures and in the balancing of the economy. But this is not really the case. You have chosen that the most low-income people should be involved in this balancing of the economy, the field of education, the higher education institutions very hard at the same time, but at the same time you have not chosen to involve the strong and the wealthy in some way in these austerity efforts. You have made a value selection for not raising the tax rate. Taxation is not in any way part of these economic balancing measures, so when you talk about everyone participating, that is simply not true. On the other hand, the alternative budget of the SDP, which has been discussed here today, does also contain these fiscal elements, particularly fairer allocation within taxation. I understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u153	Let's go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u154	Mr President! I am glad that there are still parliamentarians present on such an important issue. I genuinely believe that we should discuss together the concerns expressed by the people of universities and universities of applied sciences. I have never seen a time like this before than now when Minister Stubb went to the University of Helsinki to get to know the protesters. I have never seen a time in which universities are surrounded by a petition that, by signing, joins a group where the university people go on strike against this government. I have never witnessed a time when the Union of Scientists has to make a statement on the way in which the government's key players in education, science and research think about research and science. I found it very frightening that the Union of Scientists had to tell the public that, first of all, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, and his esteemed statements do not give the best idea of how scientists in this country are valued. The Association of Scientists has also said directly to us members of the Committee on Education that the minister’s shepherd’s letter, in which he tells us that scarcity can build better creativity, was not properly chosen in this time. And yes, this same group of scientists and the university people, the polytechnics, are very concerned about whether we have understood the effects of these legislative proposals. The current law on the modification of the funding of universities of applied sciences and universities and the lack of an index is very important. 3300 higher education jobs will disappear with the adoption of this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the fact that we are now beginning to have the last waters on which these effects really need to be genuinely addressed. And what is this government doing? I have to ask where has the Mersu Kavalkadi been, who is driving these universities and universities of applied sciences to regret and wonder what kind of change programme is being carried out for these colleges so that they can endure this major structural reform at all. Where, for example, is the Minister for Labour? This is how many jobs are lost in research and education for those with higher education. He hasn't visited any of the jobs yet. When the Defence Forces had to do this big defense reform, do you remember how many Mercedes lines went to open this situation everywhere? I do not understand why there is no concern for society. This is an incredible story that this college people are wondering if we speak the same language here at all. I am very sorry that I feel that there is a complete lack of visibility in the field of higher education. However, we have a fact which supports it: the OECD carried out a study at the beginning of the 1990s on the investment in research and product development, and the outcome has been that, quite objectively speaking, it was worth it. Our competitiveness leap was based on knowledge. But what does this government do? They are running their own competitive leap, which is not even based on objectively having lower price competitiveness compared to the early 2000s and compared to the other Nordic countries. Yet this leap of knowledge is not being done. At the same time, the biggest contradiction is that the starting point and the biggest goal of the government's own work is precisely that Finland is raised with knowledge. That is why these real measures do not at all correlate with what the government has in mind. That is why I am very concerned about whether these effects have actually been understood when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also has to take a position in this way. If you think that at times some 10,000 jobs were lost to Nokia, for example, remember how much social tragedy this enduring of structural change has been. We are losing more jobs in education and no one has had anything to worry about. I am really concerned about whether we have understood what this means in practice. Let's go over this again. These structural reforms have no guidance whatsoever. I still wonder why, Mr Zyskowicz, as a party for example, you cannot support the idea that the dual model of universities of applied sciences and universities can be considered. No, of course not. That was out of control in this government program. I have to say that it's just such a wonderful thing that if you want to look at the structures, you just look at the structures, but you don't look at the whole, because it's not ideal for an ideological assembly, and now it's not in this program. In March, the entire research and scientific community made a road map of what structural changes could be driven if we had to save. But when it didn't come to the assembly, it's not in this package. I am no longer surprised that the Union of Scientists is quite confused about how this can be possible. And it is good to say that this cannot be the case that we think that we are reducing master's education by 20% without it having any meaning in this world. Also, no one will think whether this is even from this world, that we will shorten the length of the acquisition. This doesn't make any sense. Mr Zyskowicz asked if we were ready for structural reforms. We are. We would have been prepared to extend compulsory education, for example, during the last term of government, which would have been a major structural reform and would have brought a great deal of savings. Secondly, we would have been prepared to really reduce the student base. Reducing the number of students would have been more significant than cutting 20% of the master's programme at the other end. So this is the job of fools, and it is very difficult for academics to explain whether we have considered these effects at all. I say, Mr President, to this end, that this debate will certainly show our higher education people — they will start to wonder — that they would have had the money and the opportunity to take part in this clever debate on the fact that if the economy is to be balanced, then we will do it in a way that would make sense. And in this situation they cannot understand where we are going, especially since the OECD has stated that the Finnish level of education will stop. Now, we should urgently take measures to prevent this stop, but instead we will ensure that this stop comes as quickly as possible, by making these own unilateral decisions which cannot be understood by academic experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u155	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to start by saying that this is the last long speech I will make on this subject. I say this as a comfort to you and also to myself, because you cannot always be sure that self-discipline does, but when you tell others what you are going to do, it strengthens your chances of success. Mr Kiuru, I said in my previous speech that before the elections, the SDP proposed an adjustment of EUR 3 billion and that it should be decided immediately at the beginning of the regime, that is, at these times, in the autumn, and that the SDP would manage expenditure by cutting by EUR 2 billion. I asked you, Mrs Kiuru, where would you cut the $2 billion? Well, it turns out you wouldn't be cutting off the college money you're talking about. But I asked you where you would cut it. And although you used one reply and one long speech from this toilet and talked a lot, I did not hear your reply. I don't know if anyone else heard me in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u162	Congressman Turunen. — If Mr Turunen allows, let us now give Mrs Kiuru a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u163	Mr President! I thank you for this opportunity. I will be brief, I will not go through our alternative budget, there is no need to be afraid of it. But let me say, Mr Zyskowicz, that the forum that is really discussing the serious concern which is why people in universities and universities of applied sciences are collecting a list to strike against this government has a genuine concern as to whether the funding bases for universities and universities of applied sciences are sufficient for the future. And I would hope that we do not distort this debate. I share Mr Gustafsson's criticism, which he has just made. And then I say that we in the Social Democrats do not believe that we need to balance the economy. We are balancing the economy, but in a way that we are less indebted than we owe this year. In practice, it means that we will not be in debt as much as we are now, but we will be in debt even less than the government will be next year. Besides that, we're balancing the economy. We are therefore in agreement with the government's policy on many issues, but in many areas we are creating new growth that the government is not doing, and therefore we are achieving a balanced budget package. Then let's get back to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u164	Mr President! Mr Kiuru used this reply, but I believe that, after my brief, firm speech, Mr Kiuru would certainly have liked to use that reply, because I am concentrating quite a bit on Mr Kiuru in this speech. When I listened to his speech, in a way, this actual speech is also a so-called response. But first of all: I think this was Mr Andersson, who criticised the fact that the Finns of Finland do not want to increase taxes and the total tax rate we are not raising. I do not think that this is a bad thing at all. Our overall tax rate in Finland is already top-notch, it cannot afford to raise much. And yes, everyone participates in the voluntary work. Mr Andersson then claimed that all of this would then be financed by the low-income group, but there was also a debate in this Chamber about a reduction in earnings of 450 million, which would be targeted at the low and middle-income group. That didn't go to the left either. I wonder. But when Mr Kiuru, in his own speech, painted images of Minister Stubb, how there were some notes hanging around his neck and protestors...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u167	Mr President! Can't we learn from history? In the early 1990s, when Finland was in the grip of the recession the Finnish Government responded to the recession by investing in innovation policy. Investing in research and product development was seen as a national survival strategy. Human capital was valued, which was likely to provide a basis for economic restructuring towards a high-tech economy. The achievements were spectacular. The strong and innovative electronics industry around Nokia contributed to the strong economic growth of the country. It used to be, but it's not anymore. Finland is once again experiencing a recession and a very difficult one, but it has not been able to learn from the events of the 1990s. You don't have to be a very good fortune teller when you can claim that the cuts in research, development and innovation decided by the current government will be disastrous for Finnish competence in the near future. Prime Minister Sipilä's government has already been very flexible in its many proposals, but education and research have been uncompromising, even though it is these cutting measures that have been most critical from the outset, both at home and within the OECD, for example. In recent years, Finland’s science level has not risen in the pace of the control countries, and with the planned resource cuts we are permanently lagging behind. The cuts in hundreds of millions of euros will inevitably be reflected in the skills of the highly educated working population entering the labour market. In addition to higher education institutions, Tekes and the Academy of Finland have also been targeted, which finance, among other things, patenting and basic research. Is it really the case that the Finnish Government has not fully understood the fundamental role of research, development and innovation in Finland's competitiveness? There is reason to doubt the ability of the government to make decisions that look forward to the future. It might be said that the policy adopted by the government is as sensible as the decision of the captain of a ship in distress to throw the lifeboats overboard in order to lighten the ship and improve its seaworthiness. Medicines recommended by the Ministry of Education and Culture to universities can also be considered questionable at least. In an open letter to the university management in October, Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of Education and Culture, labeled our country's higher education institution as fragmented and noted that the research was divided into too many mediocre units of resources and effectiveness and that international comparisons show that the lack of resources is not our main problem, but rather the inefficient use of them. Between the lines of the Minister of Education and Culture's message, there is a desire to concentrate on larger units than Finnish university education and research. From the point of view of the capital region, of course, this is the inside of Ring Three. Unfortunately, efficiency and working on the inside of Ring Three do not always go hand in hand. This is well reflected in the recent statistics of the Ministry of Education and Culture for 2014. The University of Turku passes through the University of Helsinki in the fields of humanities, education, science, medicine, law and psychology. In the field of business, the University of Turku beats Aalto University in the same comparison and technology in the same way as all other universities engaged in technical research and teaching in Finland. If the Ministry requires efficiency, then the requirements must be directed to the correct addresses. The least that the government should do in this context is to save Finland's education, research and teaching with a special package for the future, and this package must also be directed outside Ring 3. Universities are drivers of regional development and that is why the government must direct resources to universities also outside the capital region, especially since they are also known to be successful. In planning reforms to the current structure of qualifications, the government would also like to understand the importance of education for a small nation. The current Master's-weighted model serves business and research with certainty better than the planned three-year graduate model for education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u168	Mr President! Here we have discussed both the cuts to higher education institutions and this general economic situation, whether it will force such choices or not. I believe that this government has made at least three very clear choices in relation to economic policy: The first is the size of the adjustment as a whole, in which both the Finns and the Centre were still talking about much less savings in the run-up to the elections than a total of 10 billion, which will then be cut by $4 billion already during this term of government. The second choice of values is these means of adjustment, in which this government has indeed advocated that the tax rate should not increase, and then these fiscal means, which would also enable the high income Finns to participate in these efforts, are also excluded. The third choice of values is where these cuts will be directed, and unfortunately the government has decided to focus a significant part on knowledge and education, despite the fact that all parties still spoke differently in the run-up to the elections. These cuts in education and higher education have given rise to a great deal of debate precisely because they have been criticised, above all, from an economic point of view. In my opinion, culture has an intrinsic value, this is bad from a cultural point of view, but a significant number of these critics have pointed out that this is a threat to Finland's competitiveness: it is undermining our economic growth, it is making it difficult to create new jobs. I would like the government to take a position on this criticism: if there is a broad understanding within the government parties that these cuts may be harmful to growth, then why are such policy decisions, such as these, still being taken? Finally, when Mr Turunen commented on this career as an entrepreneur of researchers, it must be noted that there is also a line in the government's restructuring paper that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u169	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, Mr Zyskowicz has actively sought to steer this debate away from the issue itself, that is, from what we are discussing today, from the temporary amendment of the law on universities of applied sciences and the freezing of indices. However, in his speech he asked for answers specifically from the Social Democrats in relation to what we talked about before the elections and what we have been talking about in our alternative budget, for example. I can say that there are quite similar measures in both of them, that is, what we have talked about before the elections and what we now have in this alternative budget. For example, there is a source of savings such as saving from unemployment. That's how you employ more people. In our alternative budget, we have presented a model for the employment of the Ringe, and according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, approximately 15,000 people would be employed through the employment voucher and would balance public finances between EUR 140 and EUR 250 million. These are the measures we have been talking about before the elections, and these measures are now being put forward in concrete terms in our alternative budget. We do not base these on our own calculations, but we have received and commissioned these calculations from Parliament's information service. But then on the subject of education itself: That is exactly the way it has been said here in many good speeches that now that we are saving education as much as the government is doing when we cut it out of it, it is a direct cut from the future. For example, these savings on universities, on the field of higher education weaken the conditions for our basic research, and many significant innovations have just emerged, for example, on the basis of basic research. So even though we do not yet know where the research, such as what is being done in the university field, will lead in the future, it has been contributing to many of them
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u170	Now I would ask the speaker to move on to the podium if he wishes to continue. If not, the next step is Mrs. Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u171	Mr President! I thought I'd talk about my place because Congressman Turunen is no longer here. I think it would be good if, when criticisms and criticisms are made, there were also constructive responses here. In this regard, I thought that I am no longer going to waste much time for others, but I have just tried to say in my own speech that valuable work has been done in the field of higher education on how structures could be developed. One good example of this is this dual model, which I raised just now. I suppose we now believe that a university of applied sciences and a university of applied sciences located on neighboring plots could do something together. This dismantling of standards cannot be done, the glass wall that lies in the middle cannot be dismantled in the State of Finland until the coalition comes to its senses. This is a good example of the fact that the whole road map, which has been drawn up in cooperation with the higher education community, is based on the fact that a huge study was carried out in March, starting with the fact that this type of road map would be sought, which would make more sense in this effort to improve efficiency. This is a huge amount of efficiency for those units that have been doing it all the time. This is an impossible idea for us to think that people will be trained in a lower university of applied sciences degree, which this so-called university of applied sciences degree is abroad: in Finland, however, it is not directly proportional to what the university then, when continuing studies, can receive in return. We are going through a huge amount of working time, education and research time too, in the fact that these structures have not been made any sense in this regard. The engineers have been studying to be an engineer on the whole, and then being a master's engineer since then, there has been no problem with that. But for some reason, this is not going to happen to the whole college field. That's why I think it's kind of strange that Congressman Turunen doesn't compare.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u172	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 9/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u173	Mr President! The Sipilä Government has decided to freeze index increases in the administrative sector of education and culture in 2016–2019 as part of the Government's decision on the adjustment of central government finances. All index freezes and savings corresponding to index increases are presented as permanent tasks. Savings for museums, theatres and orchestras in 2012 and 2015 as well as index freezing in 2014 would be made permanent. It is proposed to amend the law on liberal education so that the average unit prices for liberal education institutions and adult education institutions are reduced to the average unit prices corresponding to the index increase in 2016. Mr President! The freezing of the indices also undermines the foundation of Finnish education, culture and culture — and I stress the importance of this culture when it wants to be too small. The impact of the proposal will be on the financing and operation of municipalities and other education and training providers in a way that will enable them to prepare for change by a broader analysis of the adjustment measures and impacts required. For example, the National Board of Education has drawn attention to the cumulative impact of these measures and previous savings decisions, as well as to the reflection of the quality of education and the long-term development of education. The financing of vocational education and training will also be significantly reduced. The organisers of vocational education and training will have to change their practices and renovate the network of real estate for training. In addition, the end of the guarantee increase weakens the ability of providers of vocational education and training to repair real estate. Well, training providers have been required to save from the walls, and even financial cuts force training providers to concentrate their activities on fewer units. In a changed situation, the obligation to return is disproportionate. The organisers of the training must be able to dispose of these properties by selling, renting or dismantling without recovery of the transferred value. The State may — and should — facilitate the situation in such a way as to enable providers of vocational training to realise these properties without any obligation to repay the shares of the State. There would be no cost to the government. Mr President! Previous savings and index freezing for museums, theatres and orchestras are presented for permanent conversion. In addition, the Government intends to implement savings for 2016 in line with the spending limits decisions for 2016 and the index revision for 2016. In the case of art establishments, the freezing of the index and other deductions will be negatively reflected in the operation of the art plants, and the municipalities are now unable to compensate for the deficit. In this context, I have to say that as a representative of the Tampere Parliament, as an example, the problems of Tampere's Workers' Theatre — the same problems are also at the Tampere Theatre. The central government share will be significantly reduced, at the same time due to the weakening of the purchasing power of the citizens, the sale of tickets will be stalemated and, consequently, there will be a need for staff negotiations in these art establishments. The accumulation of savings also makes it difficult for the administrators of liberal educational institutions. In the longer term, the downward trend in the budget for liberal education may be reflected in the scope for action and in the accessibility of education and training. We're against index freezes. The opposition in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has taken a strong hold on these issues because they undermine the funding of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. Many cuts also target young people at the risk of exclusion. At second reading, we will be proposing to reject proposals for first and second laws on these grounds, which I went through a little quickly just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u174	Mr President! Unfortunately, this is the second savings law under discussion today, which directly affects the quality and accessibility of education and education in this country. This presentation means that the indices will be frozen throughout the administrative sector of education and culture. It weakens both basic education, upper secondary school education, vocational education, basic art education and free cultural work and the activities of orchestras, museums and theatres. What, then, does this mean in practice? This means layoffs, bans on replacements, procedures, larger group sizes, a reduction in the number of teaching and a reduction in optionality. As far as culture is concerned, this means staff cuts and orchestras are forced to reduce their software and some theatres may even have to shut down altogether. Reducing the resources for education and training is not an investment in knowledge. Reducing the resources of art institutions is not improving the accessibility of art. These savings decisions are therefore directly incompatible with the beautiful objectives of the Government Programme and, in addition, directly contribute to increasing unemployment in both the cultural and educational sectors. Mr President! Savings in vocational education and training, which threaten to discriminate against those who are studying in the profession, are particularly worrying. Already during the previous period, major cuts were made in vocational education and training, and this period too, in addition to the index freezes, the government is targeting very significant additional cuts, 248 million dollars, just to the professional side. According to the OAJ, this corresponds to the average annual salary of 3900 vocational teachers. The savings in vocational education and training are already visible in the fact that local education has been significantly reduced, which reduces the quality of education and affects the motivation of students. Students should have equal rights to quality education and contact education. These continuing savings – perhaps not so long but even in a fast-track perspective – will be seen as a decline in the skills of Finnish young people. Mr President! I am a little sad and a little frustrated to stand here again and talk about how damaging these cuts to knowledge and culture are. By cutting education and training, equality in education is undermined and the conditions are taken away from new economic growth. In addition, culture and art have an intrinsic value and an extremely important social function. This country and its citizens need education, art and culture. Let's not cut it any further.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u175	Mr President! The key element of this particular Savings Act is that index freezes and other central government share savings are now made permanent rather than fixed-term. However, the financial impact assessment of the Government proposal has only been carried out at 2016 level, and this is the major problem that lies in this proposal, a particularly serious problem. Even according to the Finnish National Board of Education, the impact of the proposal will be on the financing and operation of municipalities and other education providers in a way that will enable them to prepare for change. The freezing of indices contributes to the erosion of the foundation of Finnish education and culture, taking into account the billion-dollar savings in education, research and education. The impact of the proposal will be on the financing and operation of municipalities and other education and training providers in a way that will enable them to prepare for change by a broader analysis of the adjustment measures and impacts required. For example, the Finnish National Board of Education draws attention to the cumulative impact of this austerity measure and previous savings decisions, as well as to the reflection on the quality of education and the long-term development. According to the OAJ, the EUR 4.5 million planned for basic education is unsustainable when the national need for, among other things, additional education and preparatory education for immigrants and their development is obvious. In addition, the planned savings in vocational training correspond to the average annual salary of 3900 vocational teachers. Losing these teachers is a great loss for students who need local education. Vocational education is already interrupted by 8.5% of students, or 10,000 young people, and this statistics will now rise as a result of cuts. Upper secondary schools have already had to reduce compulsory courses during the last government term, which slows students down, and electrification of matriculation exams also requires extra resources. We all know how important it is to have a secondary degree, at least, and that is the best guarantee of getting a job for the future of a young person. The funding of vocational education and training will be significantly reduced as a result of the savings decisions taken by both the previous and the current government. The organisers of vocational education and training will have to change their practices and renovate the network of real estate for training. In addition, the end of the guarantee increase weakens the ability of providers of vocational education and training to repair real estate. The previous savings and index freezing for museums, theatres and orchestras are now presented as permanent. In addition, the Government intends to implement savings corresponding to the 2016 and 2016 index revisions in line with the spending limits decision of 16-19. In the case of art establishments, index freezing and other deductions will be shown negatively in the operations of art plants and municipalities will not be able to compensate for this deficit. The field of art is very small in budgets. These surgeries are extremely crippling. The accumulation of savings makes it difficult for the administrators of liberal educational institutions to operate in the long term. In the longer term, the downward trend in the budget for liberal education may be reflected in the scope for action and in the accessibility of education and training. By freezing the indices, the upward pressure on the pricing of education offers is at odds with the diversification and differentiation of the population, particularly in migration and growth areas, and the negative impact on the educational opportunities of under-represented population groups throughout the country. Index freezes should not be made because they undermine the financing of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. The Government's proposal has a direct negative impact on the quality of education and its sole objective is to reduce the resources of education in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and vocational education. In practice, the adaptation of activities combined with other direct cuts in education means layoffs, bans on replacements, procedures, larger group sizes, lower optionality and a reduction in the number of teaching. The most severe cuts are directed at young people at the risk of exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u176	Mr President! This government proposal 79 also concerns the freezing of the index. I was a member of the Committee on Education last season and I am also in this period, and I must say, as Mr Zyskowicz has already said earlier today, that it is not very easy to be in favour of cuts, especially in the field of education, when I am still a member of the Committee on Culture, but I also agree with him that the representatives of the opposition parties here have not put forward anything to compensate for this cut. Even in their shadow budgets, there are no things and measures that would save this situation. The government certainly does not want to make cuts, but they must nevertheless be submitted because the economic situation is very bad. The government doesn't have any money in the purse, and there's not much coming. Services will then not be able to play fully in every respect, and we need to move on from this situation and look to the future. This is why these compulsory cuts are being made in order to improve the situation. All index freezes and savings corresponding to index increases are presented as permanent. The proposal proposes that savings on museums, theatres and orchestras be made permanent and that the 2014 index freeze be made permanent. In the case of liberal education, unit prices would be reduced in line with the index increase in 2016. These unfortunate savings proposals contribute to the seriousness of our country's economic situation. The central government shares paid to museums, theatres and orchestras will decrease by a total of EUR 18 million. There is particular concern about the combined effect of current savings and savings already made during the previous Government term. In order to implement fundamental rights in the field of education and culture, Parliament has already adopted a statement in 2014, which requires the government to closely monitor the actual impact of austerity decisions. The impact of vocational education and training savings measures depends largely on the success of the overall reform of vocational education and training. The idea is to reform, not just save. The implementation of the reform would be greatly facilitated by the prompt waiver of certain binding obligations in relation to student real estate and by the cessation of inappropriate student real estate. It would be important to include this in the dismantling of standards. The motion for a resolution by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore stresses that the Government will explore the possibility of removing restrictions on the transfer of property from the State of the organisers of vocational education and higher education and will prepare the necessary legislative changes. Mr President! Saving measures in the field of liberal education are unfortunate, as the demand for adult education centres has increased from the population and as the number of asylum seekers increases. Savings also increase the fees for courses, which means that some citizens may be forced to opt out of education. It would be important for free civilised work to continue to be able to provide opportunities for education for all citizens. With regard to the savings for cultural operators, it is regrettable that small operators and theatres and museums, especially those located outside the cities, are facing difficulties. It is therefore essential that regional and local emphasis be placed on ways of ensuring the functioning of cultural institutions. They play a key role in the vitality, identity and attractiveness of the locality. The operation of small theaters is currently at pain limits. They are valuable employers, which is not always taken into account. The importance of culture in bad economic times is emphasised, and it has been seen many times in history. Indeed, these savings and cuts are painful, but I hope that the opposition will also be involved in a constructive debate. Let's put a reflective cap on the head. We'll take good suggestions. The government will do everything it can with these resources at the moment. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u177	Mr President! I thought that Mr Elomaa's presentation was all right, and for my part, I was thinking of bringing my contribution. Now that we are looking at this whole state of local government finances, and that is where teaching is a big money issue, the challenge in this respect is how to deal with the next few years, especially as this pressure on immigrants is increasing and, at the same time, the resources are more likely to be declining. As far as basic education is concerned, the challenge also arises from the fact that the attitudes and motivation of students in basic education towards school are now lost and the parliamentary work that has been done together with comprehensive school does not take the heat at all, which means that it is a pity that we have a lot to solve, which is not even supported by the quality of basic education or by the group budget. In that respect, I believe that there is much more to be done about how this share of basic services on the education side can be put in order in the coming years. That is why I am thinking of whether the government parties could still consider extending the increase in corporate tax revenue for a limited period, which was in place during the last term of government. The continuation of the 5% increase may not be realism at this time, but could it be smaller? We have also proposed it ourselves to balance local government finances, 2% if the government could at least consider, if not 2.5%. This would certainly be a practical opening, how to make the local government economy easier for itself. Then, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the role of vocational education and training. After all, vocational training has saved a lot of money now, and this guarantee increase, which has brought some of these savings to this coming year, will create an even stricter situation there before this major renovation comes in the following year. Yes, this warranty increase should have gone in the same way as the higher guarantee for polytechnics, which was decided,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u178	Mr President! This government proposal for cuts in the form of index freezes, in the whole field of education — basic education, secondary education and free education — is so inconceivable against the background that in the spring of this year, all the government parties unitedly assured the Finns that we will not cut it off. It's almost speechless. Of course, it is almost impossible for education professionals, students, students, their parents, leaders of municipal education to explain how this happened. With the clear eye of the government's praise for our field of education, the government's proposed cuts in the same context are very worthless thanks to this valuable, well-managed work carried out in education and culture that holds the keys to our country's success. There is a need for reform of the teaching activity — that is right — but how can it be done if resources are taken at the same time? Digital leaps, innovative implementation of the new national curriculum, forward-looking approach, new teaching methods are desired. Mr President! I will continue to say, as the Green Parliamentary Group said before the elections: the school is a building with four walls and a future inside. This government proposal does not support the future towards success, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u179	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u180	Mr President! This is a government proposal, which means that the regional plans will no longer be submitted to the Ministry of the Environment for confirmation. The Social Democrats also believe that this verification procedure can be dropped, but we have an objection to this because we did not get all the things that we feel should have been taken into account in this committee's report in this situation. First of all, how will this national coordination take place in the future? How can we ensure that the good idea here in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal is to coordinate the views of the various interest groups as early as possible in the planning process? This is a good objective, but this raises the question of this responsibility for conducting these consultations in the regional councils and not in sufficient terms, how to ensure that this consultation is actually carried out in such a way that these national interests are also taken into account and that everyone's views are taken into account equally. We must also ensure that these good principles will also be passed on to this planning process in the future. After all, now the provincial self-government will mean that the activities of the Elys will change. Where's the control? Where's the surveillance? How will these things be arranged? There are very many unclear questions here. For this reason, it would have been better to consider whether this is the right time to put this issue in motion or whether we should know a little more about how these administrative issues will then be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u181	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Land Use and Building Act in such a way as to avoid the need for the Ministry of the Environment to be strengthened in the future. This government considers it to be cutting red tape and hasten to deal with regional patterns. However, the verification procedure for the regional and general plans carried out by the Ministry of the Environment has so far been excellent and the administrative workload used by the Ministry in relation to this has been very small, about four formulas per year. In this context, the Ministry of the Environment has examined in particular the possible transnational impact of large design solutions and the achievement of national regional use targets and has used its power to plan fairly moderately. 30 of the 36 changes made by the Ministry of the Environment have remained in force in the proceedings of the Supreme Administrative Court. The legality control of the formulas has therefore been carried out in a very appropriate and effective manner. The designers have also been satisfied with the procedure. According to the Ministry’s report, 80% of the landowners of regional federations would maintain the current verification procedure. Why, then, should a well-functioning procedure now be abandoned? The removal of the procedure for the confirmation of the plans is a very potential factor that undermines the state of the environment and the quality of the planning. The zoning projects that the Ministry of the Environment has narrowed down during the validation process have typically been highly environmentally effective, comprehensive and long-term land use guidance, so that the planning process should rightly be particularly careful and legislatively precise. Mr Haapanala, the liquidator appointed to prepare the amendment of the law, does not support the abolition of the verification procedure, which, according to the study, would only increase the number of formal complaints and processing time, as the handling of the county plan complaints would be transferred to administrative courts. The Ministry of the Environment knows the provinces and their planning for a very long time. On the other hand, administrative rights are not familiar with regional planning because they have never dealt with it. Mr President! According to the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court to the Ministry of the Environment, the removal of the procedure for the confirmation of the formulas would mean the abandonment of comprehensive control over the content of the regional plans and the legality of the procedure. Law enforcement would in practice be passed on to civil society, individual citizens, non-governmental organisations and associations. Administrative rights, on the other hand, could only deal with the legality of the formulas in so far as they were complained of. The Supreme Administrative Court has drawn attention to the fact that, if there is no complaint about a formula contrary to national territorial use targets or other legislation, or if the appellant does not have sufficient expertise to give the correct reasons, the formula will be confirmed and will come into force illegally, and neither the Administrative Court nor the Supreme Administrative Court will be able to intervene if the law enforcement role of the Ministry of the Environment is removed. Mr President! It is not up to Parliament to legislate, which actually undermines the implementation of legal planning. If it is to be speeded up, it can be done without giving up the verification procedure, e.g. by removing the collection of opinions from other ministries and the Government hearings, or by making the formula final in so far as it has not been appealed against. The proposed modification of the procedure for the confirmation of the formulas is a reform related to a larger group of autonomous regions. The overall solution is essentially open, and this should only be resolved when the whole is more detailed. At the same time as the government is proposing to abandon the process of establishing the formulas and thus undermines the quality and legality of the formulas, the government has also announced that it will consider limiting the right of appeal for the formulas to the present one, so that the combined effect of changes in the monitoring of the legality of the formulas can be quite radical. It is not desirable to take this forward. This proposal is rather inadequately considered when the proposals of the liquidator appointed by the government itself have not been brought into the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u182	Mr President! The aim of this government proposal is to clarify and clarify the division of competences, planning and the autonomous decision-making position of the provinces in land use planning. And when it was argued in the previous speech that this would in some way limit the influence of the authorities on this process, that is not true, because the development of the planning process, particularly in the field of cooperation with the authorities, is one of the clear objectives of the proposal and this interaction will be brought to an earlier stage. The problem with current practice is that when regional federations prepare regional plans and then the Ministry of the Environment only comes there during the verification phase, this cooperation between the authorities will significantly prolong the process.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u183	Mr President! The fact that cooperation between the authorities in the current model would only take place when a regional plan or a common general plan for municipalities goes to the Ministry of the Environment to be confirmed is not true. There is a great deal of cooperation between the zoning company, the Regional Association, and the regional Ely Centre and, of course, the municipalities of the region, already at the planning stage, and at that stage all other parties involved will be involved. There is no need for such a change of law in order to increase cooperation between the authorities at an early stage. It's already there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u184	Mr President! The fact is, however, that, in current practice, the process of drawing up and establishing regional plans is very long. In many cases, the situation is that when the regional plan is confirmed, the needs of the regional plan have become somewhat outdated, and this process must be accelerated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u185	And the last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u186	Mr President! I stayed to listen to this debate because — I confess right away — we put this into motion last season. In that respect, things are familiar. I said that there are two sides to this. It is absolutely essential to see, as we do in protest, that this preparatory work, which has been done here, has been quite inadequate in terms of how people will be heard and how they will be heard, how the right of appeal goes and how this relates to the regional government, but this proposal itself, which is included in this law, has been supported. We have started from the fact that this process is far too long, taking up the completion of the regional formula, that one or two officials from two years to two in the ministry are examining this single regional formula, and yet we always go to the administrative court and see who was right, who was wrong. Now, over this ministry stage, you can jump right in and go to the administrative court,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u187	Congressman Korhonen, listing address.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u188	Mr President! When I myself, on behalf of the provincial governments, have been moving forward for years, a few words in this connection. First of all, we must thank the government for finally and finally taking this change forward and being in this situation. The committee has now drawn the right conclusions in its concise report. Of course, it must be borne in mind that this report states: 'The Committee also stresses that cooperation plays a key role in developing the content, integration and promotion of national regional use objectives. Under Article 23 of the Land Use and Building Act, the Ministry of the Environment will continue to prepare national regional use targets in cooperation with other authorities." Well, that is true, of course, but, with permission, the committee has corrected a little. After all, the law requires cooperation with other ministries, regional councils and other authorities and bodies involved in this matter, i.e. the preparation of the objectives must be based on interaction between the various bodies. In other words, it is not just a question of cooperation between the authorities, but this formula process must take into account many actors in the regions and regions. This report has been accompanied by two objections. With a few comments, first of all, to this first objection: It is stated here that the Ministry of the Environment has exercised its power quite moderately in the regional planning process — this is the opinion of the protester. I dare say that perhaps the mood of the field is somewhat different, especially in view of all the guidance related to this design work, which the Ministry of the Environment, overall, is doing at the various stages of its design work. And there is also a strong view on the ground that the Ministry of the Environment, in its own guidelines, sometimes goes beyond what is required by legislation. This objection also states that if the Ministry's confirmation is withdrawn, the threat is that the quality of planning and the environment will deteriorate. I am just going to ask myself why would the provinces do less planning for their territory than the Ministry of the Environment allows. I understand in that way that the regions do not make decisions that are worse for their own development than the ministries here in Helsinki. In other words, the regional councils also strive to make the best possible end for their territory. There is also concern about the fact that, under the new law, illegal forms of land use or forms contrary to national objectives will be accepted in practice. I cannot believe it, because there is much more interaction in this new process of drawing up the formula, and the designer of the formula has previously also interacted with other ministries, not only with the Ministry of the Environment, or other ministries, which monitor the achievement of national objectives in regional planning. After all, the reality is that these other ministries often only come into the process of establishing the formula. Now this new law will enable other ministries to be involved. The second objection states that who is responsible for planning work guidance when the Ministry of the Environment leaves the picture. This forgets that the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment, and especially of other ministries, will be more effective with this new bill when they are obliged to participate in the earlier stage of this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u189	The reply will be given this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u190	Mr President! Mr Korhonen, I would like to say that this process of planning when it comes to regional planning or common municipal patterns is not in any way a matter of thought, good will or belief when it comes to whether planning —insures that it will be inconceivably, but in any event —incompatibility with the patterns of law. It is not a matter of faith, it is a verifiable matter when we see what the Ministry of the Environment has been dealing with in this verification procedure. It has had to deal with the 36 times, the regional or general formula, 30 of which, even according to the Supreme Administrative Court, have been quite appropriate. Yes, I would say at the time that there is no need to pretend that there will always be a prime. I agree with Mr Korhonen that, of course, the provinces always strive for the best in their region, but sometimes it may happen that regional policy is the best in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u191	Mr President! This objection 2 specifically draws attention to how we could ensure that this formula process would take place as early as possible so that all interested parties, including this Ministry of the Environment, would be clearly involved. However, there have been reservations about this, for example, in his own opinion, the Lapland Ely said that there are not enough procedures for interaction, i.e. more of these are needed for this legislation. And these things must be followed now that this law is being put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u192	Mr President! However, I think it is a good thing that we are discussing the fact that if planning and related processes are reduced, where do we start? It is clear to me that this proposed proposal could be such a standard in this time period, and that is something we could support. However, I am surprised that the genuine, sincere concerns of the opposition expressed in this debate were not included in the government's policy. After all, we all want to see an early consultation of all the parties in the region and an early intervention of the officials, and if there is an assessment that there is still room for improvement on that side, I think it would have been in the common interest of all of us to have these sides come up. And then, of course, there is how this new provincial administration and how
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u193	Mr President! It is precisely the fact that the role of the Ministry of the Environment is now becoming more advisory and directing, that it is really helping that, after that, there will not be so much of the problems in the region that have so far come. In other words, really good progress and progress, now this new provision. And then, if we look at the complaints, there are the complaints right now. Let us hope that these complaints will not be so many because of a formal error, because these provinces and regions will now be given advice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u194	And three more replies: the representatives of Korhonen, Hoskonen and Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u195	Mr President! zoning is also cooperation, and I repeat that I trust in the judgment of the provinces and regions in good planning. To that comment by Mrs Halmemenpää: In protest 1, when it is stated that the Ministry has exercised its powers in a very moderate manner, I would like to reiterate that I have said that there are other kinds of opinions. When you ask for the opinion of the field, which takes into account the whole process of planning, the way in which the Ministry of the Environment uses its power, either orally or in writing, in today's regional planning, during the whole process, I claim that there is often a question of whether the instructions of the Ministry of the Environment are entirely legal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u196	Mr President! It is good that this verification procedure for the regional plan will be removed from the Ministry of the Environment, because there is today, this world, that people will be allowed to influence their own habitat, their own construction, the real use of their own regions. I think this is the kind of czarian system where someone at the top accepts something... What, for example, do officials from the Ministry of the Environment know about the special conditions in the province? Not much. Of course they pretend to know when they've been given power. They can slow down the projects. We have projects that have been standing for ten years because of different zoning processes. If we really want new growth in this country, now is the time for this unnecessary bureaucracy to be dismantled, for us to start building this country, houses, plants, power plants, everything else to mobilise investment, the Finnish economy for growth. If we simply lull into bureaucracy, then I wish everyone who chooses the path, happiness, success and long life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u197	Mr President! I also drew attention to the fact that Mrs Majala raised a good point of view, which I forgot to say here — I must have come so directly to the point when the minute is so short. So what we are talking about here is where the dwindling resources of society are being used: is it for guidance or is it for supervision, such as ex post controls? My idea in the past was that we would rather use this, could we say, as a resource for magnifying glass work, to get involved in this control process from the outset? I think it is a big deal that we are now able to use this dwindling resource to ensure that from the outset this national guidance is included in this planning process. There's a real need for that. Not everything's as good as a parade in this world as Hoskonen said it would be. There is also a need for national guidance, but it should be there in the early stages and then in the final stages: if there is a dispute, you go straight to court. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u198	Mr President! Of course, the fact that I said, and even in this protest, that the ministry has exercised its power in moderation, is based on the fact that one considers the figures: what the ministry has intervened in and whether it has been justified or unjustified. That has been more than 90% justified. At that time, the exercise of power has not been in vain at this stage of the verification procedure. As regards Mr Korhonen's statement that the Ministry has perhaps intervened in planning already in that process, is it not good for the outcome to be better? However, I fully agree with several Members here that this advice should be provided at a very early stage at national level in order to achieve a very good result. I wonder, however, that the arguments put together by the liquidator appointed by the government itself are not sufficient to maintain the current verification procedure or to carry out the reform in such a way that the Ministry of the Environment retains at least a kind of take-up right to design solutions with very wide impact and possibly lack of legality. There are, of course, some good arguments here, when the liquidator also puts it this way, it is not out of the wind.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u199	And now to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u200	Mr President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support. This will clarify and clarify the activities of national and regional federations in planning and also highlight the autonomous decision-making of the provinces in land use planning. The regional federations will then be responsible for the process of their regional formulas as a whole. In the future, it is also up to the regional federations to conduct negotiations with the various ministries and ely centres and to organise them in the early stages of the planning process. That is what some people were worried about, but it is already there in the early stages. With this government proposal, the procedure will also change in a proactive and more interactive direction. Similarly, the special needs and special circumstances of the provinces throughout Finland can best be taken into account. In those provinces, the best thing to know is what is needed in those provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u201	Mr President! I would like to thank the Government and the Environment Committee for their good and speedy work on this amendment to the Land Use and Building Act. It is very good that the law is being amended so that regional plans and common municipal plans no longer need to be brought to the Ministry of the Environment for confirmation. Mrs Korhonen, among other things, gave a very good account of the background to this issue in her own speech. From a national perspective in particular, it is good that the proposal emphasises the autonomous role of regional federations in land use planning and shortens the decision-making and appeal process related to regional planning and municipal planning. I support both the main objectives of the Government's proposal, the development of cooperation between the authorities and the clarification of the division of powers between the State and the provinces, as well as the acceleration of decision-making and possible appeal procedures in relation to these tasks. Finally, Mr President, as a comment on the recent debate, I believe that the current use of the Ministry of the Environment's influence is not exactly described, or at least not just the number of changes made by the Ministry of the Environment which have ultimately remained in force at the end of the appeal procedure in the administrative court. This is a very good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u202	Mr President! Listening to this debate and reading that protest from the Left Alliance and the Greens, I guess that's all you can really think of now, except that the sense of autonomy that administrators in Helsinki know better than people in rural and rural areas who don't know these things comes to mind. This is a very good, very excellent proposal from the government — and a very clear, short, good report from the committee. I'm totally behind this. As a member of the provincial government, I myself know what realism is when the province is planned. There are good officials in charge. There are good officials working on official responsibility. Now that the Ministry of the Environment is no longer the highest sensor for these regional plans, it can genuinely be achieved that the Ministry of the Environment advises, discusses, directs, interacts equally with the regions in the regional planning process. This is also the first concrete measure for the government to reduce unnecessary regulation and unnecessary bureaucracy here in our country. Yes, Mr President, Finland must also be developed from the bottom up in land use and planning. Trust the regions and trust the people. Let us allow the provinces to develop on their own, as many good speeches have been heard here. They do make wise decisions, they do think about the environment, nature, good and sensible trading places and good and sensible transport solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u203	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this proposal and of these objectives, which is what this draft law now contains. This is also an important step in the direction of regional self-government. I am a little surprised at the criticisms and criticisms of this debate, as we have heard before, towards the decision-makers of the regional federations. There will be people from all parts of the region with very different skills deciding on these patterns at the end. In the current situation, I strongly believe in the expertise we have in the various regional councils, both in the service and as decision-makers. I am surprised at this demonisation of regional decision-makers and expertise, which has now been carried out. In my own province of Central Finland, this old model of the Ministry of the Environment verification procedure has encountered certain problems. For example, in a phase county planning process — I think there was a third phase county plan — the Ministry of the Environment’s guidance deviated to some extent from the final decision taken by the Ministry of the Environment. In my opinion, such situations are unreasonable for the heads of the provinces, for their own objectives, not only because these processes have been going on for quite a long time from time to time, as has already been pointed out here. I do believe strongly in the knowledge and desire of the decision-makers in the provinces, just as Mrs Korhonen said very well earlier, in order to achieve the best result for their own region in terms of land-use management. I am very much in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u204	Mr President! In my opinion, the amendment to the Land Use and Building Act under discussion is very good and justified and is well suited to this current world process, i.e. to try to decentralise governance and decision-making close to the people who have to live with their decisions. This is the famous general principle of the European Union, the principle of subsidiarity which, admittedly, has not been possible in recent European Union decision-making. We want to concentrate everything on Brussels, even our monetary policy and all the rest of the decision-making process. But at least the books say that the principle of subsidiarity is strong and alive, and I warmly support that: the government's proposal is very good and well-founded. A couple of arguments: First of all, when you read those protests about this government proposal, there really is, as Mrs Kurvinen quite well described this situation, the old czar regime in which the decision-maker in Helsinki decides what to do in one of the Ilomants. It's not today, is it? Let me give you a brief example: When these nature reserves were designed, an official of the Ministry of the Environment claimed that a retired grandmother's forest had to be sedated because it is an open swamp and a very rare habitat. In fact, it is a ditched swamp where 250 mots per hectare had wood — to show that the designer had never been in that area, had only drawn a map at the table. Is this what we want? In this respect, the government's proposal to simplify the planning process and move to regions close to people is good, very good. In some cases, planning today aims to slow down construction in rural areas and rural areas. Of course, cities need to be developed, Finland needs to be developed on every square. If we want growth and livelihood and debt payments in this country, we have no alternative, all other means have been used. The debt-taking has been used, the recovery of all the world has been used, but no one has yet really noticed whether or not this country should really start developing and building. In fact, tens of billions of investments rest on the fact that it is blocked by a formula or a building order. People have huge investment interests, but they’re building, or someone else is hindering them. These obstacles should be removed immediately. One where the obstacle needs to be removed is the strengthening of these regional formulas: the transfer to the province is a very good thing. But in addition to that, the national targets for the use of regions need to be changed. Today it says that the community structure is being perfected, but it must be recorded in a clear Finnish language that the whole of Finland will be built equally, whether it be in Utsjoki-Kevo or Helsinki or Vaasa or Ilomantsi. We need to be able to build and develop the economy in every place. After all, the services of the municipalities and nothing in this country will remain in order if we are unable to build and improve our beloved country. For example, achieving the goals of the bioeconomy cannot be achieved without material improvement in the current infrastructure, and without improving living conditions there will be no objective at all. Of course, the whole country must be built; it is only absolutely necessary for the defence of the country. It cannot be that, because of planning and other bureaucracy, it can take ten years to obtain building permits. The authority slows down, and at worst one authority complains about the decision of another authority to the administrative court and lies there for three or four years. Once it has been resolved, there will be a new complaint and a new complaint and another complaint. This isn't today, is it? After all, when we are living in the 21st century and are a modern society, we must now believe that people genuinely want to develop this country and not just slow it down. The fact that Finland is in this situation at the moment is, of course, due to many threats from outside — for which we cannot help what is currently Russia's sanctions and others — but rather because we have made investment and construction in this country unprofitable, even impossible. So this government proposal is the first step in the direction in which the government must continue with determination. The next step is to turn national regional use targets into a country-wide perspective. Mr President! In no way will I say it, and I will never be in favour of the development of just one area; it must take account of the whole country, whether it is Utsjoki-Kevo or Helsinki, which has just been mentioned. Both must be able to develop — not by the success of Ilomantsi or Utsjoki-Kevo, it is for the benefit of this country all the jobs that are created anywhere are very good for the economy of this country. This is where we should now be able to see beyond those moles, honourable Members of Parliament, that we are able to see the benefits of that neighbourhood. That's the big thing. If we are here to speak against each other and pretend to accept an additional debt, then I say that there will be a bogeyman on that road if anyone wants to go down that road. I'm not going down that road. I warmly support the excellent proposal made by the government and the fact that it will be able to continue to change the national targets for the use of regions to the right.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u205	Mr President! This performance is really good. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I have had the opportunity to listen to experts talk about this matter, and my understanding of the importance and necessity of the law has certainly been strengthened all along. First of all, this is indeed the first decent step in how it makes sense to divide these matters into tasks outside the capital region, and, secondly, we in the state administration are currently trying far too hard to concentrate on dealing with them here. We in the provinces can manage things too, and certainly we want to do it in such a way that the regions will remain alive and will be able to act tomorrow. This is a real de-bureaucratisation. This removes unnecessary duplication of bureaucracy when many places do the same work several times. We focus on doing our jobs in one place at a time. Now for this guidance and advice: I am really glad that the Ministry of the Environment can now really concentrate on steering and advising this whole activity. The resources of the Ministry of the Environment are diminishing all the time, and there are not really very many people who have been able to concentrate on these issues — whether they were two or three, five or ten, we did not really know how many of them were. However, these human resources should indeed be used for the development of regional affairs and for the further development of the whole. In other words, this really prevents and reduces duplication of work. In the past, there was talk of the right of take-up during the debate as to whether the Ministry of the Environment should retain the right of take-up in this matter. Certainly not, because if the Ministry of the Environment would retain the right to take advantage of this issue, that would mean that the Ministry of the Environment would continue to be committed and bound — it would not be able to openly advise and direct this whole activity. I am very pleased that the matter of rights of take-up was not put there on the road to the motion. In many respects, the Ministry of the Environment is somewhat distrustful in those provinces: it is not always the case that we trust what comes out of it and fear its action. I very much welcome the fact that this proposal will help people in such a way that even more people in the regions can be trusted by the Ministry of the Environment. This proposal will indeed increase confidence or, at least, the possibility of increasing confidence. That is the way forward. Indeed, I hope that in the future the Ministry of the Environment will experience more and more in such a way that they are closer to the provinces and that working together will increase that relationship of trust and cooperation together. Then on these complaints: This will increase the workload of administrative rights to some extent and has not been sufficiently taken into account in this economic situation. Indeed, administrative rights currently deal with a great deal of these formal complaints, and I believe and hope that this whole will move forward, because the administrative courts have so much experience in handling complaints about the patterns of the regions concerned. However, the last point of appeal is the Supreme Administrative Court, and this will not change its role very much, at least. I believe it may even be that even complaints there will be reduced, because the cases will then be dealt with before the administrative court. Then, with regard to these complaints, even if the Ministry of the Environment does not have the right to take over, it does have the normal right of appeal of the authority. If necessary, they will be able to complain if they see that there are obvious errors there. Then I'm going to our province over there in Lapland, East Lapland. We are currently working on the regional plan for Rovaniemi and Eastern Lapland, which has been very much publicised, and what makes it public and talked about is this traditional Vuotos debate — or as we should be talking about the Kemihaara flood protection basin or whatever we are talking about. What about the right of appeal and the handling of that matter, when the Supreme Administrative Court has already taken a negative decision and made a decision? I do not feel that in any way the appeal of people in our region or the handling of the matter will be undermined. It is likely that this same Kemihaara basin will be re-examined by the Supreme Administrative Court. So I believe and hope that this whole piece of legislation will help all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u206	Mr President! I agree that this government proposal is a good one. In this regard, Mr Hoskonen gave a good basic speech on a number of issues that clarify this situation. This ministerial steering role is very important, but then the decision-making power in that provincial union is extremely important. I do not repeat what other speakers have already said with merit on this issue, but when we talk about this competence, whether it is more in the ministry than in the provinces, I think that this professional competence is as much in the provinces as in the ministries, but the knowledge that relates to the region and to these types of issues can be found more in the provinces. When the provinces have the power to make their own development strategy for example, there must also be the power to implement that development strategy, and it is a matter of essence that this zoning power is also in the same hands where these development strategies are made and an essential part of the implementation of these strategies. I believe that this is the most important thing. Then to the end of Mrs Maijala's speech on these possible energy solutions and the use of hydropower and the related pool building. In this regard, too, I very much welcome the fact that, if this type of planning is carried out, it is precisely in the provinces and not in the Ministry of the Environment that the decision-making power lies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u207	Madam President! I myself am a member of the provincial government in Northern Ostrobothnia, and I find it terribly wonderfully stated in the explanatory statement at the outset that 'the autonomous role of the regional federations' — precisely so that this expertise can be shown in the region. Well, I also do not believe that the provincial governments and the regional councils are - I mean, deliberately - doing illegal activities or inciting anyone to overdo it, and I have not heard, in my own provincial government, such as the Left Alliance or the Social Democrats, particularly criticising this proposal. Of course, it must be said that the Socialist proposal is in itself quite a good one: the effects of a major change must be monitored. Well, the Greens, with their election results, did not reach the Northern Ostrobothnian provincial government. I would like to say once again, referring to the debate in the Chamber, that there are no environmental laws, laws on nature conservation, laws on climate change to dismantle, amend and, in this new situation, the right of appeal, which the committee has also drawn attention to, quite rightly. I will return to Monday this week, when, in the North Ostrobothnia Union, we discussed the economic and operational plan of the Union and the phase of regional planning, and I am glad to say that I thought it looked like my own province. I believe that it is from there that the vision of how to develop vitality, how to develop business is emerging from all our regions. Just as Mrs Hoskonen has pointed out, we are currently living in a situation where every new job is worth a fortune. They may not be the jobs in large volumes, but at least local jobs in China do not escape very easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u208	Madam President! This is the last time that very good speeches have been made, and I too want to defend Finland in the provinces. This reform gives it the power of decision to the provinces, the regional councils and, at a later stage, the regional councils. They are given the opportunity to decide on an issue that really concerns the future of their own province. I do not quite understand that the idea is being defended here that, ultimately here in Helsinki, the state administration, the Ministry of the Environment, should confirm these formulas. Is it not a good thing that these decisions are taken there by bodies elected directly by the municipalities or, in future, directly by the citizens? Is that not also democracy? The Greens and the Left are against it, these parties, which often portray the fact that they are the ones who defend democracy, are said to defend it much more and much more intensely than the other parties. Greens, for example, have stressed their importance in these areas of citizens' initiative. In the future, now that we give the bodies directly elected by the citizens the power of decision in the regional planning of their own province, the Greens are saying here that it does not belong there but belongs to the officials in Helsinki. Of course it is clear that this zoning is regulated and limited by the laws that we have passed here in Parliament, and the normal legal complaint path is available to those who feel that the law has been broken in this zoning. Finally, it is necessary to correct the view expressed here by Mr Kurvisen that this is the first proper step of the government in the dismantling of bureaucracy. Yes, the motion to repeal the Business Time Act was the first step.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u210	Mr President! After all, planning is a very important process, it is a matter of great economic, environmental and community values, and it is of course extremely important that all these are taken into account and these processes are transparent and all have legal certainty — this must now be ensured in all situations. For this reason, it is also extremely important that, in the future, when this regional government is being reformed, we ensure that these processes continue to be involved there and that we also take national interests into account in regional planning. I am now a little surprised, and perhaps a little surprised, that it is assumed here that this new situation would make it possible for the Vuotos basin to be built after the decision of the county plan. However, the national objectives will be taken into account and the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court will also be taken into account. But I would really like to emphasise that, at the same time as the verification procedure is abolished, it cannot be assumed that appeal procedures will also be restricted. That is precisely what this Socialist protest is about, that we are going to consider in the future those things that can undermine this transparency and legal certainty if they are not taken into account. In my view, it is extremely important that in matters such as this one, where there are big public interests and where private interests may also be very hard, there are clear regulations to act on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u212	Mr President! Mr Myller, in his speech earlier, said that it was a good thing that this process should take account of national interests in the regions — if I listened correctly. This must also be considered the other way around: hopefully the interests of the regions will also be taken into account at the national level. That must be Mr Hoskonen, one of his best speeches today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u215	Madam President! No one in this Chamber has suggested that zoning or other power be taken away from the provinces or that there is no know-how in planning — certainly there is and indeed there is. As far as regions are concerned, this current procedure, in which the Ministry of the Environment confirms the formulas, is considered to be quite effective and good. As I said earlier, 80% of regional planners would maintain the current procedure. Of course, in the provinces, the best interests of the province are pursued as a rule, and that is unquestionable. It is also undisputed that, from time to time, despite this, the objectives of the province are such that the national aspect of planning may be forgotten in planning, and perhaps even something that will not stand up to the legal review will be accepted. We have now heard a good example of this: the regional plan for Rovaniemi and Eastern Lapland, to which the Vuotos basin is once again being added, even though the project in question has already been declared unworkable by the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u216	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Halmemenpää mentioned, for the third time in my presence, the fact that in the provinces practically there was no zoning, that there was illegality and that the interests of the kingdom were forgotten. In fact, I do not fully understand whether the interests of the region and the kingdom are in any way contradictory or even contradictory in any way — quite difficult to see. The development of territories is equal to the development of the kingdom. As I said just now, this professional expertise is certainly available to both parties, both at the Ministry of the Environment and then at the Regional Councils, but the Ministry of the Environment may not be able to find the local knowledge or the development plans that have been made in the province, and that knowledge is probably not so good in the Ministry. But, in fact, I would say that, in some situations in the Regional Union, there has certainly been a lack of strength, not so much fear, or what these words were used in the past. There is nothing but powerlessness in carrying out those regional development projects when it is not in its own hands but in the ministry. As far as this pool building is concerned, it requires many different decisions than those related to planning. Just as Mrs Myller said, it certainly requires much more decision-making. But then, at the end of the game, I think it is the most important thing that, when all the other decisions have been taken, for example, if a positive decision had been taken because of some pool building, and it comes to the situation that this is no longer a matter of zoning, I think it is much fairer that the last decision on zoning will be taken in that area than that taken in Helsinki at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u217	Mr President! Now it is good to separate what is to be done by whom. It is up to the provinces to promote the interests and development projects of the province and to take care of planning. The Ministry of the Environment's role in this case is to enforce the law, which the Ministry of the Environment has done correctly and effectively. When you look at what the Ministry of the Environment has intervened in zoning matters under these circumstances and how well those changes have remained in the Supreme Administrative Court, there have not been many strikes there. As far as this Vuotos debate is concerned, not now, Mr Turunen, it has gone on for almost my entire life. I would just like to say that the municipalities in the region are not in favour of this project. My family is from there, and I know exactly what they are discussing and have been discussing for over 30 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u218	Madam President! In fact, in the current law, the dual role of the Ministry of the Environment, both as a steering authority and as a decisive authority, has been somewhat problematic and may also have hindered cooperation between the various authorities in regional planning. Now, this government proposal clarifies the role of the Ministry of the Environment in steering planning, improves the work of the authorities and also creates conditions for good and high-quality planning. This government proposal also allows the views and consultation of authorities other than the Ministry of the Environment in the early stages of the formulation of the formula. I think it is a good thing, and it also speeds up this planning process overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u219	Mr President! It was certainly not a question of building a pool for hydroelectric power, it was not a question at all, but an example of where that final decision is in such a situation. In fact, when Mrs Halmemenpää is not in favour of building a pool, I too can say that I am not in favour of building a pool, or on the other hand I am in favour, but that is not an integral part of this. Let me also make it clear that if all the decision-making, what this kind of pool building involves, it processing and everything else, would be ready — and that last decision — then in my opinion it is just more fair that it is there at the local level than at one of the ministries in Helsinki. As far as this judicial control is concerned, I think that it has been handled very well in the government proposal at the moment, that the Ministry has a strong advisory role to play and that is how it will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u220	Mr President! The conversation went into this pool in Kemira, which happens to be there in the area of my municipality of residence. By the way, it has been in discussions since 67 years ago, that is to say 48 years ago, when we started discussing this pool, and there has been a fight about it in that area, a nettle. But, well, let's keep fighting. I personally hope that the preparation of this formula, which we are in the process of doing there, could focus more on doing other things and working, because we all know that it was now decided at provincial level, whatever it is, it will be appealed to the administrative court, the Supreme Administrative Court. The Supreme Administrative Court will decide on the direction to be taken, hopefully according to what the Supreme Administrative Court has already decided. Whatever was decided at the time, it will then be appealed to the European Court of Justice and so on. However, I, for my part, wish that this regional planning system could focus on the development of the region as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u221	And back on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u222	Madam President! Surely the aim is not to pursue any lawlessness or excesses in the interests of the provinces. There are still laws to be followed, that is, the role of the Ministry of the Environment is not meant to be a court of law, and, as has been said, the laws and standards governing planning are not being dismantled, but this verification procedure. Although the current procedure has been welcomed in the expert opinions, I have not heard any particular arousal or opposition, nor have I heard any particular opposition and debate from my own provincial government. I do understand this Vuotos ghost and its debate: the other boogeyman, of course, is Kollaja, and they are in the same package, but that is not the point at the moment — it is certainly not worth starting to build more water tonight. But for this advice. As has also been said in that committee's opinion, the Ministry of the Environment is familiar with regional planning and will certainly continue to play its advisory role. And once again it is stated that the right of appeal will be preserved, that is to say, legal protection can then be applied for through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u223	Mr President! This law is now heading in the direction we want, and now we are considering the following laws as regards this land use and building law. I hope that in the same way we will be able to bring forward other legislation relating to construction. In other words, this will lead us to deal here with the way in which we will help these municipalities to build these coastal areas, even if they are not planned, and that is that we will be able to make more and more decisions even at municipal level in the future. When we first move to the provincial level on certain issues and then go to the municipal level so that they do not even need to be dealt with in the Ely Centres, this whole thing is now the right direction in this picture, and we are working hard to see how other activities can be brought closer and closer to the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u224	Madam President! As far as this debate in general is concerned, let me just say that when the spirit still seems to exist here to slow down the development and construction of the provinces, remember, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that every building that starts to rise in this country, if there is a cost estimate of EUR 1 million, comes to the State in the form of taxes and in the form of various indirect payments, the other half, that is, 500000, that is to say, the efficiency is about fifty-fifty. Half go into that building and half go into taxes and payments to the state and society. In other words, every time you raise your thumbs or fingers that I want to oppose this project, you are opposed to just what revives the Finnish economy. Is this what you really want? I am very much in favour of using the hydropower, if such a solution is made, in the existing waters in this country, which have already been harnessed. The leak and Kollaja are sensible projects, because they are harnessed waters. Of course, the amount of megawatts that is sleeping there and is still a liability for flooding, I am not here to present, but that is a good idea, it must be taken forward. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the thing is that if we are against every issue, if we are so hard to stop it, hydropower construction, nuclear power building, building houses, developing provinces — tell me, I cannot understand what you really want from the North Karelia Regional Plan Group — this is not how it works. Is there somewhere here in the administration palaces that we have to put a container in the back and start eating dried otters on the lakeside? No, my friends, that's how this thing works. There is a debt of 100 million, and perhaps it is thought that how can we still prevent this project? Now, my friends, please come to the conclusion that this land is being built. There is a tremendous desire in this country to build a country better. Join this group. I claim that it is one of the most profitable projects this millennium will have. We still have time to do it voluntarily. A few years from now, you'll have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u225	Madam President! There has been a good debate on this regional planning and its future. It is good that the strengthening of regional plans is being transferred to the provinces there. There the decision-makers and the provinces themselves are able to decide how to develop the regions. That is where the needs are and are best known, and this interaction between the authorities will remain, I believe. This is also the way regional decision-makers and regional federations want to do in the future. At the end of the day, I would like to say that in a few speeches, the national regional use targets have also been raised. I do agree with Mr Hoskonen that they must also take into account the different circumstances and special needs of the different regions of Finland, and they will also affect these regional patterns, and they will also be taken into account in a proper way by the regional federations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u226	Mr President! Perhaps even as a little relief to this end of the debate: I just received an e-mail asking why Parliament never talks about predatory policy. I would now say that, in the context of this draft law, this law is certainly not a wolf, but as far as wolves are concerned, I think that there are too many of them in Finland at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u227	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 13/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u228	Madam President! I would therefore like to present this committee's report on the government's proposal to amend the Ely Centres Act so that the Centre for the Development and Administration of Ely Centres and Telecommunications Offices decides on matters relating to the payment and recovery of State aid granted by Ely Centres, while monitoring the use of state aid in addition to the Ely Centres. This is referred to as the KEHA Centre. It is proposed to delegate to this the tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport and Communications concerning the payment and recovery of State aid to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This KEHA Centre, the Centre for Development and Management, has been established by a change of law that entered into force on 1 January 2015, and acts as a service centre-type agency within the Ely Centres and TE Offices network and with them within the same accounting unit. The expert consultation revealed that this reform has been seen as an entirely effective solution. This KEHA centre has therefore been entrusted with these human resources management tasks, financial tasks, training centre Salmia tasks, tasks relating to the payment of subsidies and grants, employer tasks and certain other tasks. So now this good practice, which has begun, is intended to continue with the legislative amendment by gathering administrative tasks, and these aforementioned ministries will then come to this and pay for state aid. Well, in addition, the tasks of the Civil Service Centre are administratively linked to them by moving from the Ely Centre of South-East Finland to the KEHA Centre, and of course the Civil Service Centre, which is physically located in the Gulf of Lapland, was properly consulted. In this way, transfers will also make it possible to allocate resources to core tasks more effectively in this case. The Administrative Committee considers this proposal to be necessary and appropriate, and there are a number of amendments, for example concerning the protection of the building heritage. The National Board of Antiquities has been added and a few technical changes have been introduced. This committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u229	Mr President! There are many experiences of these 'centralisation projects' of various state activities over the years, but it is now necessary to say that, although I am rather critical of many concentration projects, the aim of this law is certainly to concentrate certain tasks of the Ely Centres on the KEHA Centre in many ways. In many ways, at least I am impressed by the efficiency of the KEHA centre. If I have understood correctly, that KEHA, among other things, will be able to provide the services in its systems at the moment with about a quarter of the smaller staff than has been the case in the kingdom in 2013, for example. The KEHA Centre has in many ways been able to produce efficiency, be able to organise, produce services well and efficiently. In other words, with the clarifications that the Administrative Committee has made to this bill, this bill looks excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u230	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 10/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u231	Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has presented its report on the government's proposal to Parliament for a law on the Prisoner Health Service and on certain related laws. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been obtained and the experts consulted, and the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is unanimous. This proposal suggests that the provision of healthcare for prisoners should be transferred from the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and then to the result guidance of the THL. Therefore, this proposal seeks to get the prisoners' affairs in social and health care to the same condition as the general human affairs are dealt with in society, i.e. this kind of normality principle is the starting point here. The aim of this amendment is also to implement the established international law principle of prison care, according to which the prison health care staff should not be involved in any form of supervision and order maintenance. The state of health of the prisoners is known to be poor: there are a lot of substance abuse problems, mental disorders, infectious diseases. And the committee also stated in its report that, for these reasons, the committee considers it important that this reform should enable and help to invest in preventive work on the health of prisoners and also that health care has been properly managed. The committee also stressed the importance of administratively being in the same field of social welfare and health care, and in particular this relates to the stage when prison is released. It is also important at the transition stage that the services should then continue unbroken and can then be ensured that they are able to survive in civil society and that they are properly managed in social and health care matters. In other words, the committee considers this transfer of the administrative sector to be important and a good thing, that the care of the prisoners is now more closely linked to public health. This opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs contained a number of points which were intended to be clarified by this law. The clarifications relate to the patient records of health professionals, as well as to the regulations on the flow of information between different administrative actors, and there are proposals for amendments in that section. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that these changes now be incorporated into the law. In its opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to the costs of the reform of this system. According to this proposal, the organisation of THL’s activities entails a permanent additional cost of EUR 250000 per year. In addition, this also creates a need for additional resources of EUR 70000 for Valvira and EUR 150000 for the Regional State Administrative Agency in addition to the amount already allocated to preparing these reforms. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore considered it important that this transfer of the administrative sector should not entail significant additional costs and that the impact and functioning of this transfer should also be carefully monitored. The committee's detailed explanatory statement then states these changes to these legal articles: 1st Act, Section 5 So there will be a change. In other words, the Criminal Sanctions Agency will now be employed by health professionals who, in addition to other tasks, have a patient care function and, since the Criminal Sanctions Agency will no longer have a patient register of its own, the committee proposes to supplement paragraph 2 so that these professionals deposit the patient care information in the prison health care patient register. Then a new Article 16 came in, and it concerns a notification to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In accordance with the opinion of the Legal Committee, the committee proposes a provision on the possibility for the Prisoner Health Service to notify the Criminal Sanctions Agency when there is reason to suspect that the prisoner poses a risk to the order or security of the institution or to the safety of the prisoner or other persons. The notification relates to the possible danger of the prisoner in such a way that the notification does not contain information on the nature of the prisoner’s illness or any other details of his or her health or treatment. Then there are a few other clarifications, reference clarifications. With these amendments, which are reflected in this report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously proposes the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u232	Madam President! The aim of the proposal is to integrate the care of prisoners into other health care, as well as within the framework of health care guidance and supervision. I think this is a good thing as a whole. According to Article 3 of the Prisons Act, the substance of imprisonment is the loss or limitation of liberty. However, under the law, the execution of imprisonment must not impose any restrictions on the rights and circumstances of the prisoner other than those laid down by law or which necessarily follow the punishment itself. Under the same law, prison conditions must be organised as far as possible in order to meet the living conditions prevailing in society. I think this has already been very well realised. In addition, the ability of the prisoner to maintain his or her health and functional capacity must be supported and prevented from harming his or her freedom. At the same time, this transfer of responsibility for organising the care of the prisoners will implement the above-mentioned principle of normality, as stated by the previous representative. The goal of Finnish prison care is already recorded in the 19th century as the social and professional rehabilitation of prisoners and the strengthening of the self-esteem of prisoners. The resources of the Criminal Sanctions Agency are currently so minimal that rehabilitative work and various rehabilitations under the Prison Act are very challenging to implement. For example, state savings are reflected in drug abuse programmes in prisons, such as the total closure of treatment programmes in prisons, most recently in the Kerava prison of Kisko community care. Property services in prisons have been outsourced, resulting in job losses for prisoners from out-of-work. The resources of prison priests are also under threat. A large number of offenders have substance abuse problems and therefore substance abuse rehabilitation plays a key role both during prison and during the release phase. The development of substance abuse rehabilitation programmes has no longer been at the centre of prison care as at the turn of the millennium. It should be remembered that prison facilities are one of the largest drug rehabilitation centres and, when you end up in prison, substance abuse rehabilitation is even an opportunity for a prisoner to live a new life, because the prison environment is basically intoxicated. Intoxicant rehabilitation programmes may create trust-building practices between prisoners and mentors that contribute to the personal support and preparation of the release of prisoners. Intoxicant abuse programs can at best serve as a bridge between prison and municipal actors and as a means to build continuations, for example, during controlled trial freedom. It would be in everyone's interest for the prisoners to receive adequate rehabilitation at the right time. As I mentioned earlier, prison time is the best possible time to deal with substance abuse problems. Adequate substance abuse services and preventive work also reduce the number of re-incarcerated persons. One of the rehabilitational offenders who has substance abuse problems is quite a saving for society. When one prisoner pays about EUR 200 per day and EUR 73000 per year to society, rehabilitation can save significant sums annually. Many prisons are able to exercise physical fitness, but mental rehabilitation is worse. There is no money for so-called soft rehabilitation, such as theatre and music therapy. I think that we should invest in this, as far as resources and funding are concerned. In any case, decisions on prisoners are in principle taken under the Prisons Act and the Penitentiary Act, even if the prisoner is in a health care unit. Thus, the position of a prisoner in this respect will not change when he is placed in a health care unit. Only in matters relating to health care are prisoners subject to the above-mentioned general health legislation, including the Patient Act. Placement in and removal from the Hospital Unit of the Criminal Sanctions Agency is decided by the Chief Medical Officer responsible for the operation of the Hospital Unit of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. I hope that this legislative reform will, for example, improve access to the prison for prisoners. Currently, a nurse visits prison only once a week and her service is available for up to 5 hours. I think it is completely inadequate, given the very poor condition of many prisoners. Madam President! I think the government's proposal is very necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u233	Madam President! The chairman of our committee has already largely gone through this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In a few words, I am mainly addressing this report from a public health point of view. This transfer from the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will support the indiscretion of the care chains of prisoners in the transition to municipal social welfare and health care, as well as the possibility of more effective public health work and anti-contagion work for the population at particular risk. From the point of view of prisoners, the aim is to improve the continuity of care between the prison and the surrounding society and to reduce the health inequalities between prisoners and the rest of the population in the longer term. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal, well-functioning prison health care can provide an opportunity to tackle the problems of marginalised groups of people while at the same time supporting the prevention of repeat crime. However, the isolation of incarcerated health care from other public health services disrupts existing care relationships and hampers the development of effective treatment continuations. Madam President! The separation of health care personnel from the prison organisation, prison management and other prison staff has been estimated to increase the confidence of prisoners in health care staff and the threshold to travel to use health care services. This is a very important issue when we consider what the chairman of our committee said about the state of the prisoners' health and, among other things, the fact that they have an average life expectancy of 47 years at the moment. The separation of health care and supervision tasks will make it possible for health care personnel to fulfil their professional ethical responsibilities better than they are today and will support an increase in the real and perceived independence of health care personnel. Like the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomes the transfer of the administrative sector and the integration of prison health care into public health. The committee also considers it appropriate to concentrate the organisation on a national unit under the responsibility of the National Institute for Health and Welfare in view of the specific expertise required for the provision of prison services. Madam President! The Committee on Legal Affairs gave us an opinion in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and drew attention to the costs of the system chosen in the proposal. The increase in costs in such an economic situation is indeed questionable, but what is good is that the law does, however, clarify the position of health workers and separates health care from the guarding of prisoners. This makes it possible for us in Finland to implement the international principle of well-established prison care, according to which the prison health care staff should not be involved in any kind of supervision and order maintenance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u234	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u235	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 7/2015 vp. Congressman Lapintie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u236	Madam Speaker! The committee has adopted a unanimous report on Parliament's Ombudsman's report for 2014, and I will raise a few points here. Firstly, the Finnish National Institute for Human Rights, consisting of the Ombudsman, the Centre for Human Rights and its human rights mission, was granted the highest possible A status in December 2014. This ‘A’ status is therefore of great international importance. Among other things, the institution that received it has the right to speak in the United Nations Human Rights Council. The Ombudsman's report contains an annual theme, and in 2014 it has been the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. This choice of theme anticipated that the Ombudsman would be entrusted with specific tasks under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs welcomes the development that, in recent years, the focus of the Ombudsman's activities has shifted increasingly from the control of the authorities' activities to the promotion of human rights. The Committee considers it important that the Ombudsman's activities continue to develop the guiding, judicial and human rights implications of the activities of the authorities. In his speech, Mr Jääskeläinen raises the need to develop the division of duties between the Ombudsman of Parliament and the Chancellors of Justice in such a way as to minimise duplication of tasks. The Ombudsman considers that the current system is not the most effective and appropriate for citizens and society. For example, the entry into force of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will give the Ombudsman specific tasks. In this annual report, the Ombudsman states that it would be inappropriate if the Chancellor of Justice also dealt with matters falling within that remit. When the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice deal with similar issues in the same capacity, the outcome of the cases and the measures taken should also be the same, regardless of which case has been dealt with. Differences arise in measures designed to promote individual rights or to direct the activities of the authorities of a particular administrative sector and to develop the legal situation. In its opinion on the human rights report in 2014, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that it is important, particularly in times of financial difficulty, to make efficient use of scarce resources so that new tasks can also be carried out and there are no gaps in the monitoring system. These views expressed in the above-mentioned opinion 52/2014 continue to be important, and it also considers it important to examine the division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice and the possibilities for developing cooperation. In his own speech, Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin raises the fundamental rights dimension of the EU and considers that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has been strengthened in recent years in the drafting of legislation and in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Court of Justice of the European Union plays an important role in safeguarding fundamental and human rights. In 2014, the Court made 190 rulings on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, providing guidance to the courts of the Member States, inter alia, on when the Charter should be applied, on the obligation to interpret secondary law in the light of the Charter and on the content of rights, such as good governance. The great committee has also stated that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has grown in importance in the activities of the European institutions, particularly in the preparation of legislation, while at the same time the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union in safeguarding fundamental and human rights has been strengthened in its interpretation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union in its case law. The role of the European Union as a fundamental and human rights actor has increased and Union legislation has a significant impact on the implementation of rights at national level. Fundamental rights standards in the European Union must be brought more firmly into the activities of public authorities and courts at national level, and knowledge of the content of the rights and principles protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and their application should be enhanced. This is the size of the committee in its opinion 6/2014. Legal supervisors, other supervisory authorities, courts and other human rights actors play a key role in this. The Ombudsman plays an important role in monitoring the implementation and promotion of the rights guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union. The importance of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union as a shaper of the European concept of fundamental rights is likely to increase in the future. It is therefore important that Finland actively strives to influence the interpretation of courts. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs agrees with the Ombudsman's assessment of the importance of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union as a shaper of the European concept of fundamental rights and considers it important that the monitoring of fundamental rights pending before the European Court of Justice and Finland's participation in their deliberations be stepped up. Similarly, the committee hopes that the Ombudsman will also be involved, as far as possible, in the evaluation of cases pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union from the point of view of fundamental rights. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u237	Madam President! For the first time, the report contains a section on the rights of persons with disabilities. In a quick way, you might as well ask, "Now is it? Haven't disabled people had any rights so far? It is, however, a question of changing the division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman from the beginning of April so that complaints concerning the rights of persons with disabilities, regardless of the category, are brought before the Ombudsman. I think this is a good change. The implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities has also been a specific theme during the reporting year. The theme has been highly topical since the proposed work of the Working Group on the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities under Article 33.2 of the UN CRPD to the Finnish National Institute for Human Rights, which has been strongly involved in the Parliamentary Ombudsman. The tasks set out in this Disability Pact are to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention. In the Government proposal 284/2014, the Ombudsman also performs these tasks under the Disability Pact within the framework of his own competence. In this regard, the Ombudsman acts as both a judicial officer and a guardian and promoter of the implementation of fundamental and human rights. Finnish legislation defines disability differently in different laws and situations. I think the definitions are at least confusing and not always complementary. In the main Act on Disability Services, a disabled person refers to a person who, due to a disability or illness, has a long-term special difficulty in performing normal life activities. I believe that this too would be an adequate definition of disability. However, there is also a good definition of disability in the Disability Pact. It defines people with disabilities as those with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities that can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with others from interacting with various obstacles. It would be good if and when we reached the simplest possible definition and were to be kept to a minimum. What is more important than definitions, however, is that the disabled person is given equal access to the services and rights that he or she is entitled to. The Disability Pact requires respect for human rights and consideration in all aspects of life. I know from experience that in many municipalities and cities the disability law has not yet gained the value it deserves. Law enforcement has become a matter for all administrative sectors to review the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities. According to this report, 161 cases relating to the rights of persons with disabilities were resolved last year. As many as 67 complaints, or as many as 41% of them, led to measures. The percentage of operations is significantly higher than the average of the office. A total of 105 people with disabilities had a solution in the social care area. Complaints relating to services under the Disability Services Act were very often concerned with failure to take decisions on services, delays in processing the application and transport services for the disabled and the organisation of personal assistance. I have been contacted by several parents of a severely disabled child this year and have told them that decisions from municipalities are slow and that it is difficult for a child to obtain transport services and personal assistance even if a child with severe disabilities is entitled to do so. In general, this is about the municipality or the city wanting to save money even if the local government finances are already on top of it. Finland adopted the UN Convention on People with Disabilities and its Protocol as early as May 2007. However, ratification of the treaty has moved because Finland's sovereignty laws must be consistent with the articles of the treaty. Finland is one of the last EU countries in which the agreement has not yet been concluded, and I regard it as quite a negative for Finland's reputation. Of course, Parliament has adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in March 2015, as I mentioned earlier. However, Parliament required that restrictions on the self-determination of people with disabilities be laid down by law before the agreement can be definitively ratified. Otherwise, Finland’s national legislation would not be compatible with the article of the Agreement. This Treaty guarantees full human rights for people with disabilities, prevents discrimination and promotes accessibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u238	Madam President, we and the rest of us who are late in matts and beavers, who are still here to be and talk! I wanted to raise one point about that report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Mrs Lapintie, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, gave a very good description of this situation. I myself was very pleased with this development need raised by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, in which he believes that the division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice could be examined, because it is partly overlapping and is not the most effective and appropriate way for citizens and society. The situation here is that this division of tasks can be regulated in a normal way without restricting the powers of either judicial authority. The Ombudsman considers that there has been differentiation and specialisation in the tasks, which is in favour of the division of tasks, and that the tasks are therefore partly overlapping, and that this is not appropriate. Indeed, in its opinion, as in the past, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has called for such clarification. It has now been reiterated that we want to see these possibilities for improving the division of duties and cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. Let me turn to the fact that the Chancellor of Justice did not take such a positive view. This statement, which we had in writing — and we heard him in committee — is critical and more courageous to say that there was some indignation, but I am not brave enough to say so myself. In any case, the Chancellor of Justice considers that he receives information in this work by participating in various legislative development projects, steering and monitoring. This will provide the Attorney General with information on how the official machinery works. Well, I personally do not see this argument as being very central. The information is obtained by reading the documents, and all the authorities are, of course, constantly forced to do so, so that keeping up-to-date does not require — and must not be required — that these are the decisions that must be taken themselves. Similarly, the Chancellor of Justice considers that, when there is a duplication of powers, duties are recorded there in the Office but then routinely distributed among the agencies that the same matter is not resolved twice. But this too takes time, and there may be such situations that the Chancellor of Justice, for example, then considers that he wants to resolve it. And what I think is really the most important thing is that we also have specialisation and differentiation in the courts today. We have a lot of areas of justice, and no one can be an expert in all fields, and that is when the expertise and the fact that you do a lot of those things in the same area always gets deeper. As an example, I could say on the guardianship and lobbying side of Parliament’s senior Ombudsman’s secretary, Mikko Series. It shows in the solutions that he has a very deep knowledge, and then they are more correct and consistent. I therefore think that it is highly advisable that this should be examined, and especially when we have these deregulations, then every institution — no matter how old or how effective the authorities themselves think — should be re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u239	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Good Parliamentary Ombudsman! On page 77 of this Ombudsman's report, attention has been paid to meeting so-called basic undocumented needs, in which the Ombudsman says there are shortcomings and ambiguities, and, I would say, in a sorry spirit, I read, this report states that a government proposal was submitted during the reporting year to improve the right of some so-called undocumented people to health services, but the proposal lapsed. I would like to say that the Finnish Parliament and the Finnish people should be grateful to Mr Rajamäki, who, during the last parliamentary term, caused the Government’s proposal to lapse — that is to say, the Stubbi Government’s proposal. By next year and by 2017 at the latest, we will have thousands of undocumented people in this country, i.e. illegally resident persons who have applied for asylum in Finland but who have not been considered to have grounds for granting asylum or granting a residence permit on humanitarian grounds and who have therefore been decided to leave the country but who, despite this conversion, have remained in Finland in practice. So we will have thousands of such people in Finland. The whole Finnish society strives to ensure that these people leave Finland as soon as possible because they are here illegally. If we had passed a law extending the health services of these people to what is now the legal status — everyone, of course, has the right to urgent health services — to various chronic diseases and others, does anyone think that this would have contributed to the voluntary departure of these people from Finland? No way. I would like to say that although, perhaps a little between the lines, the Ombudsman seems to regard this so-called positive interpretation of human rights as a problem in the absence of this law, I personally am very pleased that we did not make this mistake during the last parliamentary term. Madam President! From page 182, we will be discussing foreign affairs more extensively, and when this immigration crisis in Europe and Finland is very topical, I would like to say a few words about it here, but of course, even if there is much to say, mainly from the point of view of these human rights interpretations and, in my view, at least in my interpretation, also in relation to this issue. We currently have over 30,000 asylum seekers in Finland. On page 183 of this report it is reported that in 2014 there were 3,651 of these applicants and in 2013 there were 3,238, which means that everyone sees that about ten times the number is spoken. This presents a great many major challenges for Finnish society, which we must try to deal with. But with regard to these issues of human rights and the interpretation of international agreements, I would like to raise one question which today is a great debate for the whole of Finnish society, of which even Parliament cannot be sidelined. It concerns the serious crimes committed by a few asylum seekers, the serious crimes committed, mainly rapes, of which some asylum seekers are suspected. I would like to say that these asylum seekers, through their actions, are ruining the reputation of all asylum seekers and, in fact, the reputation of immigrants. This should not be the case, but it is. You can imagine how enraged these few people are by other asylum seekers or, for example, by people from the same minorities living in Finland. In addition to ruining the reputation of others, they create a feeling of insecurity among Finns in the localities where these reception centres exist. Now the question is: what can we do? In my opinion, the message should be quite clear: the rapist has no business in Finland, no conditions for obtaining a residence permit, and, on the contrary, he should be returned to the country of origin as soon as possible. That is what the general sense of justice thinks of me, and so do I. The rapist who comes here should have no right to remain in Finland, to have a residence permit, but, on the contrary, he should be returned to the country of origin as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as that. As we have read in the media, the Geneva Convention on Refugees and, at least, if I may say so now, a positive interpretation of human rights will easily lead to the conclusion that asylum cannot be refused on this basis. It is true that if a person is actually persecuted and has criteria for obtaining asylum, on this basis, these agreements and our laws cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u240	Madam President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for this report — a long tradition in Finnish judicial control! Congratulations, too, on obtaining the A status of human rights! The Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice's activity reports are traditionally accepted by the Parliament with little talk and few audiences. The report covers our various administrative sectors and takes a stand on the right issues. In international terms, we have good governance, something that many countries can only dream of. The human rights institution, which therefore includes the Ombudsman, is an important part of the Western rule of law. However, let us have a few words of criticism. I am sending out a message about the public debate and the feedback I have received from the citizens. I constantly hear the speeches that complaints to the law enforcement authorities do not lead to anything, i.e. criticism comes from these numerous 'no cause' decisions. Of course, it can be said that there have been some disappointments in the speeches, but I would also like to say hello to those who express their concerns about our administrative culture. When inspecting the various institutions, the law enforcement officers could pay attention to the goodness of the judgments, namely — as the retired President of the Court of Appeal of Vaasa, Erkki Rintala, said. I think there was a story in the media yesterday about how rape and assault became a conditional sentence and compensation for the victim's 100 euros. Professor Terttu Utriainen has on several occasions drawn attention to the recent convictions of rape cases. When I move in my constituency very often, I hear the question of a citizen who has fallen into an unjust state about how to gain his rights. When citizens feel that they have been left in an unjust state, some start a complaint process. In the case of an issue relating to authorisation procedures and business life, which can only end with a positive outcome from the complainant’s point of view after years of appeal, this positive outcome could most likely have been given in a more negotiable manner after the initiation of the case. The Committee on Audit also spoke about good governance during the last term, which means that governance is part of the productive potential of the economy. An example of the best — or bad — of the authorisation: It took nine and a half years to process the application for a permit for freedom, followed by a permit. Could this same fair decision have been made earlier? The administrative procedures have now delayed access to authorisation and the start of operations. You can ask the price of these complaints to the economy of our country, which is in financial difficulties, and if you look at how much economic conditions change during this period for nine and a half years. And this isn't the only case that's been going on for years. When we are in the armored shirt of the euro, industrial competitiveness and poor economic conditions cannot withstand a heavy administrative procedure. Administrative decisions are a burden on administrative rights, a source of talk and an obstacle to the functioning of the economy and will be paid by taxpayers. Fortunately, the time for dealing with cases has been accommodably reduced. Of course, it must not compromise legal certainty, but how heavy a regime can we afford? A few observations: Section "Police", page 85: The complainant has not received the documents he requested from the police or the prosecutor, which he had then complained about. The reply gives the complainant a reason why the officials did not know which one should have provided the material. In other words, there should not be such ignorance in the administration either. Following the Ombudsman’s contact with the police, it issued the documents requested on the same day, and this shows that if the complainant had not gone so far, he might not have been able to obtain those documents for a long time and then have been deprived of his rights. However, without knowing the case in detail — here we do not see the receipts — it came to the impression that those seeking their rights had to make an effort to reach a just outcome. Then I will come back to the report by the Committee on Audit for the last period on administration, because when good management is done, the number of cases in administrative rights will decrease, the number of complaints to the legal authorities will decrease, the cost of taxpayers will be reduced and the economy will become more active, even if companies' resources are allocated to action rather than complaints. Finally, on the development tasks: Thank you for your international work. The Human Rights Centre has proposed to international institutions to increase the education and training of human rights. This is good. But let's go back to home Finland. As read in the report: "The lack of bullying at school is insufficient. Schools do not have sufficient means to detect and intervene in school bullying." This is an unfortunate threat. This is, for example, a threat to the Pisa results of our schools, but in the final games this is a threat to the health of our young people. I consider it particularly necessary that attention be paid to bullying at school, and I hope that the well-started school police activities in our country can continue, even though we know the scarce resources of the police. I'm not talking about security at school. I'm not talking about arresting a cop. I'm talking about education and education. It can be used to support pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u241	Madam President! I think that the Ombudsman's report for 2014 before us gives a good picture of the year in which he operates. A few comments on the basis of this report: Firstly, the fact that there were 4,600 complaints over the last year and, best of all, the level of handling of complaints has been so good that the response to the complaint comes from the Ombudsman’s office within a year. This level, which has been achieved as a result of decisive action and a good arrangement of matters, has now borne fruit, and for that the Ombudsman has received special thanks. From the point of view of the legal protection of citizens, it is extremely important that the citizen obtains an appropriate decision in dealing with the authority and then, if so, obtains a decision from the court or authority concerned within a sufficiently short period of time. The processing times of years shall not be today. In this regard, the Ombudsman's office has done an excellent job, and for that I would like to thank you very much. One comment on the division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice: I believe that this report has dealt with this very well and it is justifiable that this division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice should be clarified. Here is the good thing that this clarification from the point of view of legislation can be done on the basis of normal legislation without any further commervents. And by clarifying this division of labour, this means, of course, that processing times will be further reduced and citizens' legal security will be improved, as both authorities can focus on the specific areas in which they specialise and which they best manage. This development is highly desirable and I hope that the next reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also draw attention to this in order to make this division of labour clear. It benefits both the operators themselves and every Finnish citizen. One important principle of the rule of law is that the proceedings are short enough and that the decision is taken quickly enough. The theme for the report year 2014 was this exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities, and in this respect we can be pleased in this country when last December the Finnish National Judicial Institute received the best possible status, the A status, which in practice means that we will be able to speak in the Human Rights Council when we deal there. This reflects the fact that the work that has been done in the Ombudsman's office has borne fruit and has also been noted internationally. It provides a good basis for us to be able to continue to secure human rights well and, above all, to ensure that the small person's affairs are dealt with as firmly as possible. It should always be remembered that the people most in need of legal protection and legal protection are those who otherwise have less chance of pursuing their own affairs. A person with unlimited economic potential does not have such a problem. But in this matter we need to look at the position of that little person and his legal security. In that sense too, this Ombudsman's report is a good one, and I hope that the same good work will continue this year and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u242	Madam President! Finally, I would like to make a direct reference to the Ombudsman's report of the Parliament on pages 225 to 226 of the 2014 report. This point is often forgotten by municipal and urban officials when they make decisions on transport services for disabled people: "The guidelines for the application of transport services in the municipality do not mention the possibility of individual consideration of trips to neighbouring communities. In some situations, this may result in the city’s application guidelines restricting the subjective right of a person with severe disabilities to transport services. The Ombudsman stressed that a person with severe disabilities had the right to decide for himself how to use the transport services granted to him. Therefore, the municipality does not have the right to define on behalf of the disabled without a legal basis, for example, where transport services extend. It does not have the right to reduce or prevent, by its own instructions, the exercise of the unconditional rights of a person.”
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u243	Madam President! I will raise three points from the Ombudsman's report last year. On the subject of institutional conditions for the elderly, the issue of child protection and child affairs and, thirdly, this undocumented health care which Mr Zyskowiz raised. The Ombudsman raises the situation of the elderly in institutional care. We have tens of thousands of people in different models of service housing and institutional care, and certainly will continue to be in the future because of our demographic development. But what we should not have and what we must constantly pay attention to is the fact that there are different types of abuse, lack of food, problems with hygiene, inadequate change of diapers, a lack of rehabilitation, that is, simply a lack of rehabilitation, a lack of opportunities for outdoor activities. This is not what we should have. These problems also arise in the case of the elderly, the elderly, who are covered by the open service. The Ombudsman highlights a sense of security, a weakness. Here, too, there are problems in organising outdoor activities and, above all, in the management of things outside the home. The Ombudsman points out that these measures to restrict the right to self-determination in the care of the elderly should be based on the law, but the required legal basis is still lacking. These things are not simple, but I can see that it is good to raise these issues also in these and future parliaments. Madam President! In the report on child protection and child protection, the Ombudsman raises the scarcity of general resources in municipal child protection. Unfortunately, this is still a well-known fact in almost all parts of Finland, and the problem is the low number of social workers, sometimes inadequate training and then the high turnover of workers. All of these, together and separately, undermine the quality of child protection services. The Ombudsman notes that mental health services for children and young people are insufficient. It is difficult to get children who have been placed in the care they need. Madam President! In this context, I would like to say and encourage all of us that we also have excellent models and good practices across Finland. Among other things, we are talking about the so-called Imatra model. Imatra has a welfare clinic, an award-winning program, or a model that is just in use that invests especially in preventive work, early support for families. All these measures have improved the well-being of children, the well-being of families and brought large savings to the municipality in the fact that this custody of children and other such heavier measures have not been necessary. I see that one of our most important tasks now in the social welfare reform is to pick up these brilliant models and spread them across Finland. This will result in savings and better social and health care and thus better, more positive entries in the Ombudsman's annual reports. Mr President! Just a brief word on the health care of the undocumented. Just because the clock is ticking, briefly the fact that this is not a very simple matter in that way. In that way, if we do not provide undocumented health care services of any kind and yet they remain in Finland, in a way hide outside the official society, perhaps the diseases they have — not everyone we know, of course, and not everyone is necessarily terribly familiar even in Finland — will disappear. As diseases get worse and at some point they still have to be treated, our health expenditure may explode even worse than if they were entitled to such primary health care services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u244	Madam President! However, I would like to stress that this is a serious problem, this health care for the undocumented. I am very pleased that Mr Zyskowicz has raised it. Of course, I understand that this is a complex issue, but we will certainly understand that if tens of thousands of people come here and if there is perfect health care — it includes everything from dental repairs and things of this kind — it will be an attraction if people receive such services. Yes, we have to admit that we are rather powerless, and the people are really angry that we have to take care of the elderly, which you talked about, cut, and people are not being treated. I would not like to see it when a Finn goes into the same way as other voluntary work for child protection, for the protection of the elderly, for all such things that we collect things and go there. I have a dream to take care of my old man well. On that point, I disagree somewhat with the previous speaker that this is not a small matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u245	Mr President! However, I would now like to opponate this previous speech. It cannot be so black and white that the alternative is simply to provide the paperless with complete health care. However, this is the basic health care needs I myself referred to here — if the previous speaker pointed out that the Finns are angry, if they are offered all the good things up to special medical care and it is absent from our own elderly. On the contrary, I do not like this kind of confrontation, but I could counter the opponation here that probably the native population also does not like the tragic deterioration of the health of these undocumented people and the diseases they do not receive the medical care they need are getting worse and they spread to the population uncontrollably. At least this is probably not what any of us want.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u246	Madam President! After all, everyone here, as far as I can tell, is entitled to basic health care. And, of course, special medical treatment is being given at the moment — we have just read that a patient with tuberculosis is being treated in a hospital — and we do not, of course, fail to treat them. But you have to take this seriously. Then we must remember that when a person has not received a residence permit, he is here illegally. I, too, would like to help everyone if I had money — I also give animal welfare to that Africa and many other things, different collections. Of course we want to help, but we have to understand that this money is limited, that if we try to save 3 billion in war and it goes into these problems of immigration in an instant, then we just have to prioritize it. The person in the land illegally is here illegally.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u247	This reply, Mr Heikkinen, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u248	Thank you, Madam President. I understand and hear that the undocumented do not get the health care they need in Finland at the moment. And I would like to reiterate this point of view, which I am trying to explain: in health care and in the case of all diseases, a preventative disease is the cheapest disease, the next cheapest thing is that things are dealt with in sufficient time when the costs and the necessary treatments are as low as possible, and the most expensive thing is that the disease goes far and needs special medical care. This is true of all mankind, of all animal life and certainly of all creation — it is only the case that we should be able to focus on things when minimal measures are needed. And that is also the case with these undocumented health care. Mr President! I can see that this is sore.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u249	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u250	Madam President! Let's be brief. The maintenance of social peace is at present, at least in my opinion, threatened in many ways. One of these motives for maintaining social peace in Finland in general is these crimes committed by asylum seekers. This is where I think Mr Zyskowicz made a very good speech. I think it would be very important for Finnish society now to send a strong signal to these asylum seekers that no crime can be committed in Finland. That signal should be the kind of thing we're supposed to get people to go back. What kind of crimes would that be? I myself am of the opinion that committing all serious crimes in such a way as to result in a minimum sentence of six months in prison in Finland would result in a swift expulsion. But in addition to that, I believe that in some crimes zero tolerance must be defined. In particular, attempts to commit sexual and violent crimes should lead to expulsion. The preparation of crime and the financing of terrorism or its attempt should also lead to rapid expulsion. I believe that this signal effect is particularly important here. Now, if we tell asylum seekers, we try to tell them about Finnish society, the status of women and so on, that message does not seem to get through, but we need this kind of concrete signal effect to get there that it gets through.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u251	Madam President! In short, this extension of illegal health services. First of all, I hope that, despite this statement in the Ombudsman's report of 2014, the Ombudsman would not pursue this issue. Personally, I understand that if there is not much pressure from outside, then the present government is not going to move on this issue, and that is a good thing. Indeed, it must be remembered that people are being spoken of illegally in Finland, and when people are illegally in Finland, the whole Finnish society strives to leave Finland because they have no legal right to be in Finland. The question then has to be asked: If we expand their social and health services, will it contribute to the goal that all Finnish society has, that is, that they return to their countries of origin as soon as possible, or is it a factor that works in the other direction? I think it works the other way. Then, for the sake of clarity, what the previous government put forward: the previous government did not provide the same health services as the Finns, but this proposal, mentioned in the Ombudsman's report on page 77, meant that instead of the current urgent care they would receive more extensive health services. As I recall, it contained the term 'essential services'. Personally, if there are any problems with the interpretation of current urgent care, let these interpretations be changed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the municipalities. Personally, at least I see that, indeed, if we have an infectious disease, then of course it is urgent to treat it so that it does not continue to do so. I understand that this is the case today, for example, with tuberculosis. So the government did not propose the same thing as the right of Finns and legally residents in Finland to health services, but it is worth noting that in the working group that prepared this, this model was also on the table, and at least the Greens are demanding the same services as foreigners and Finns who are legally present in Finland. This really would mean that your teeth are being treated and stuff. Anyone can imagine that if we have hundreds of thousands of sick people in St.Petersburg who know that in Finland taxpayers can handle their teeth and diseases, it would certainly be an attraction then — yes, at least I did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u252	Madam Speaker! Finally, the intention was to thank the lively debate and interest in this report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I can see here that the debate is still ongoing. Nevertheless, I would like to raise this point which I have not yet made in my presentation: 4600 complaints came to Parliament's Ombudsman's office during the reporting year and 4750 decisions were taken instead, more than what had been received. Of all solutions to complaints and own initiatives in 774, i.e. more than 16%, the committee found that 111 sites were subject to inspections during the reporting year, which is 25% more than in the previous year. In other words, it was very important that the Ombudsman's office should have a maximum period of one year for dealing with complaints, and it would also be desirable that it should continue to keep to this timetable, and at least on the basis of what it looks like now, this will remain the case. In addition to this, many things have been raised in these debates by representatives, which I am sure will also come to the plenary session on the basis of citizens' initiatives or government bills, and it is certainly always worth remembering that international agreements binding on Finland, of which perhaps the most important thing today is the obligations of this Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which are quite specific and which are also becoming increasingly important, and I am sure that everyone in this work will remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u253	Madam President! Let me return to this debate just now on the right of the undocumented to health care. At the moment, undocumented people have no right to Finnish-wide health care. It is good not to confuse asylum seekers and paperless people in this context either. But then, in his speech, Mr Zyskowicz feared that if we had greater rights to undocumented health care, it might cause a million people to come from, for example, St.Petersburg. But if I have understood and correctly remember, the City of Helsinki, for example, does provide some level of health care for the undocumented, and I understand that no rush has come from the direction of St.Petersburg. I personally support such a peaceful approach in these discussions that these threats would not give signals to this general discussion, because it sinks into people like a hot knife in butter that these threats are painted. I think it is much more important to look at this from the point of view of public health, for example, and here I would like to repeat once again what I said just now that the earlier efforts are being made to promote health anomalies, emerging diseases and health, all of this when it is being tackled in time, and at the end of the day it will always be the most advantageous for the national economy and public health. That is the line that I always want to emphasise, at least in my own speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u254	Mr President! Let me first comment on this debate on undocumented migrants — or, as Mr Zyskowicz has just said, illegal immigrants — and their health care. At least here I share Mr Zyskowicz's view that, if they were to be guaranteed extensive health care in the future, it could act as some sort of attraction. However, for reasons of principle, I cannot support the fact that they are prepared to guarantee a particularly extensive health care service. We must now remember that it has not always been easy for all Finns to provide adequate health services either. Yes, this is also a matter of principle. Let us now hope that this social welfare reform will provide a solution to this health care for Finns. Then, as another matter, Mr Turusen mentioned about the possible expulsion of these asylum seekers who have committed serious crimes. I myself, as I am sure many other Members of Parliament, have received a lot of e-mails from concerned people who are really very concerned about the potential problems caused by this immigration crisis. Unfortunately, we have now heard and read more and more about these, especially about sexual violence against women and trying to do so. I certainly agree with Mr Turuse that this education for asylum seekers alone is not enough, but we must take a firm line that whoever is in need of escape does not commit violence and does not try to do so, but must then be deported.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u255	Madam President! Just a brief word on this point. I am also trying to avoid painting unwarranted threats, but as we already know today that next year we will have thousands of people who have received negative asylum decisions who will remain in Finland, i.e. people who are illegally present in Finland, I do not think that the more extensive the social and health services they have in Finland – the Ombudsman in this report also points out that there are shortcomings and ambiguities in the current situation – the more difficult it is to get them to leave Finland voluntarily. I think that, humanly speaking, this is what a person does. Well, as far as these Pietarians are concerned, it is true that in Helsinki today there are wider services for illegal residents. It is known that there is no such health tourism in St.Petersburg, where you get a visa and then, when the visa expires, you stay illegally in the country and get services on the hands of Finnish taxpayers — and hopefully there will not be any. I consider it possible and I am concerned that this could happen, but it is good that this has not happened in Helsinki and that it has not happened. For the sake of clarity: Asylum seekers are not illegally present in Finland. They are legally in Finland and of course, I think, they belong to a wider range of health services than to those who are illegally in Finland. But it is not the case either, as Mr Heikkinen mentioned, that for those who are illegally in Finland there are no health services. Yes, they do: emergency services belong to everyone in Finland. If we find a man in that street, he will get all the help he needs and no one will start asking him about residence permits or citizenship. So it is now a question of whether we are illegally expanding the health services of people in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u256	Madam President! Zyskowicz brought up a lot of these things. Representative Mr Heikkinen first said in one speech that we should be able to talk about all things, and then he said in the next speech that the threat images are being painted. It's not painting threats, as Mr Zyskowicz said, if we take the facts on the table. This is just the situation. People are really angry when, first of all, the authorities have pawned information on these criminal cases and then it has come to light that there have been police instructions that they should not be informed. That's what pisses people off that information's been pawned. What happened this weekend about the activities of a minister made it angry that false information is being given, not that someone accidentally says something or forgets a word — it angered if deliberately withheld. This is the same thing for every single person, which is why there's a certain thing you can't talk about. When you read in the paper that the drunk tank was shut down, is that an awfully nice term for a person with a substance abuse problem? Nobody's gonna make a fuss about it, but then this thing is like, "Don't talk." Let's not brag about everything if we can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u257	Mr President! I hope that the previous speaker will not expand the debate on these crimes, the rape cases that have been found. I have not touched on these in any way in my own speech, solely in relation to the health care of undocumented asylum seekers, who are not undocumented, and my own views on the stage at which health services should be provided to them, so that it makes sense in terms of public health and the economy. This was the thing I wanted to take a stand on, nothing else, and here I wanted us to stick to facts and not paint threats. Mr Zyskowicz has rightly said about this emergency aid. It is currently in this legal text, but in practice very many people who need urgent assistance are turned away. Personally, at least I see that if it is visible that there is a case of cancer, then I think it would be an emergency and should be treated as soon as possible. But often even this type of cancer may not be helped until it is really time for quite expensive treatments. These issues in health care are, of course, tough because we have very limited resources to do so, but once again I would like to point out that a great many diseases and injuries are therefore cheaper for all of us, whether they be the native Finns, the immigrant status here, the asylum seeker or the paperless. It's always a good idea to get to grips with these in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u258	Madam President! I do not think I am going to make a longer speech here. However, I would like to thank the honourable Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a good report, and I would also like to thank the honourable Members for the speeches that have been made in connection with this Ombudsman's report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u259	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 8/2015 vp. Mr Lapintie will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u260	Madam Speaker! The committee has indeed dealt with this report by the Chancellor of Justice for 2014, and here too I would like to highlight a number of points which the Committee has particularly wished to draw attention to. In his own speech, Chancellor Jonkka raises his concerns about the quality of drafting legislation and pays particular attention to timely political guidance and the importance of timetables for proper drafting of legislation. The committee shares the concerns expressed by the Chancellor of Justice regarding the quality of the drafting of legislation. Although many government proposals are now well prepared and of high quality, there is still room for poorly prepared proposals. It is particularly worrying that there have also been large-scale legislative projects of social significance among those who have not been prepared, which have been brought to Parliament in a hurry, without having had time to carry out proper impact assessments or order of business, for example. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the importance of timely political guidance, as well as the Chancellor of Justice, and refers to the Code of Lawmaking prepared in support of the Government's lawmakers. This guide describes in detail the ideal model, according to which the main dates of political guidance are related to the start-up of the legislative project and the conclusion of the contents of the Government draft, such as which of the solutions outlined and evaluated in the basic preparation will be taken as the basis for the preparation of the Government’s draft. Once the draft has been completed, guidance is needed when deciding on changes to be made on the basis of the opinion feedback. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also consulted the Heads of State or Government on this matter, and we drew attention to the fact that the time allocated to drafting legislation has been reduced over the years. The Chancellor of Justice's view that the actual legislative process is not always regarded as an important preparatory stage for the substance of the law, but rather as a technical implementation seems to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be at least in some cases in the right direction. Even before the drafting of legislation, the desired outcome and the associated means, which have been defined, will limit these implementation options, and impact assessments and legal frameworks may be largely limited in advance. This has proved to be a problem. On the other hand, there have been situations where political orientations have been needed at an earlier stage of preparation and significant substantive changes have been made without an adequate assessment and consultation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important that more attention be paid to compliance with the Code of Conduct and to taking account of the opinions received in the various ministries or, in fact, in all ministries. The proper drafting of legislation will include the preparation of civil servants, which will highlight the options for implementing the legislative project and the related legal uncertainties, such as the relationship with the Constitution and other legislation. The committee would like particular attention to be paid to the careful drafting of the rules of procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly stressed that it is always necessary to include in a government proposal a section entitled "Relationship with the Constitution and the Order of the Constitution" if the draft laws contain provisions whose constitutionality should be assessed. The order of the Government's proposal also provides Parliament with important information to assess the need to deal with the proposal in the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs would also like to highlight the importance of the ministries paying particular attention to the adequacy of experienced lawmakers and of providing training and training for new lawmakers. It is important that the lawmakers are also familiarised with the stages of parliamentary procedure, in particular the committee procedure, and the importance of the explanatory statement in the committee's report which is the basis for parliamentary deliberations, for example when guidance is given on the interpretation of the provisions. In addition to resolving the problems of this legislation, the committee also raised the issue of the division of duties and the development of cooperation between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman. In this respect, the committee was content to refer to this in its report on the Ombudsman's report, and it states here that there is a need for further clarification as regards the cooperation and division of labour between actors involved in the promotion and monitoring of fundamental and human rights. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u261	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I have to repeat my previous speech here when it comes to the same subject as the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, but since the Chancellor of Justice was not present at the time, I would of course like him to be able to hear it when it concerns him. In other words, this concerns the clarification of the division of labour and the development of cooperation between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has hoped for this and felt it is important that this be clarified, and also in its previous opinion, in its opinion on the Government report on human rights, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered this important and reiterated its wish. I think that is very much in line with the fact that we are trying to look at these so-called stripping blocks and see if there are duplications of tasks and whether they can be managed more rationally in the future. In this regard, Parliament's Ombudsman Jääskeläinen has stated that the current overlapping system of the two supreme judicial supervisors is neither the most effective nor the most appropriate for citizens and society. This is, of course, the idea that matters should be resolved in a proper and timely manner and that people should be given good legal protection. In the Constitutional Committee, we have heard both of the law enforcement authorities, and the Chancellor of Justice has also made a written statement, and of course we went through these same things in the committee. There are some aspects here that I will look at. This statement was quite critical, and I felt that it was a little negative and not very willing to accept this proposal from the Parliamentary Ombudsman, but it is of course up to everyone to decide how to deal with it. Now, as a Member of Parliament, I am looking at some of these arguments. For example, the Chancellor of Justice believes that it would be good for the law enforcement officer to have the broadest possible description of his duties — certainly so — and that it would be a means of obtaining information about the functioning of the official machinery and what structural obstacles there might be — perhaps so. But if we look at all the judicial and administrative activities, we all have to find out a great deal about the Court's EU legislation and other solutions. This information can also be obtained by examining the decisions of another authority. Surely, when there is a wide right to information, you can also obtain working documents if you wish, so that, in depth, it may not be such a key counter-rejection. Of course, the Ombudsman had also pointed out that it would then be necessary here in the office to review complaints and write them down and make phone calls, and that this is not, of course, a problem that does not take much time. Well, I'm sure it's not a big deal right now, but it's a big deal, and it's always a little longer, but that's not the only thing that matters. But what I think is most important is what the Ombudsman has pointed out, that similar and similar solutions would be found in similar cases. It is not that we should always have similar solutions, except when there is an entirely similar case, and rarely is. But if we consider, for example, today’s courts, there are well - differentiated departments there. Others deal with bankruptcy cases, some with criminal cases, others with litigation precisely because it deepens that knowledge when it is known that none of us can control everything from the side to the side. Then that knowledge and knowledge is the best and it is also effective and faster. I think it is good for everyone's legal security that a lot of people have dealt with these issues. That is my view. For example, I already gave compliments to the local register office, where I have worked for years, to the older Ombudsman’s secretary, Mikko Sarja — note that he has years of lobbying. Yes, he points out us, that is not what I mean, but he knows the area, and it definitely speeds things up. I think it is very desirable that this be examined and treated with an open mind. This could be a lot of new stuff. After all, we can come up with a new task for the Chancellor of Justice to replace it if there seems to be too little to do, which I do not doubt — this was just a final reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u262	Madam President! A few comments on the Attorney General's report last year. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its report, states that there are no objections. Two comments on my part, and these remarks are certainly not negative comments, but the development of practical matters. The first point relates to the very topical issue raised by the Chancellor of Justice to improve the quality of drafting. This has to be taken as a really good, positive advice by Parliament on what to do about it, because we have come across a situation in which, in many cases, there has been a lack of law-making either because of haste or because of some other reason. This is also a bad thing for citizens' legal protection, because if we make legislation of poor quality, then, of course, it will lead to complaints to the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman when the situation is unclear. This is the kind of lawmaking we need to get rid of. And precisely, as the Chancellor of Justice rightly points out in his own report, this is what a preparatory guide has been drawn up for this purpose, which has been done in the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the use of that guide, you might say a little prosaic that it is kind of like music in the rally, that a good rally driver needs an excellent carter who makes good notes, that the car goes smoothly along the road. The same applies to the drafting of legislation in this country: With a good guide and good notes, there will be quality work and we will stay on track, and precisely so that the work of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman will be made easier when unnecessary complaints are reduced, when there is clear legislation that is well-founded and, in addition to a report on the new law of Parliament when adopted in this Chamber, it will then be clear and easy for the citizens to follow. It is an important part of Finnish legal security. Then, Mr President, the Chancellor of Justice will take another position on this: when the new Government always starts its work after the elections, it would be important to do this orientation work in order to be able to do quality work. Finally, Madam President, there is only one comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u263	Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for their views. There is only one thing I am raising here. The parallel competence of the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman does not lead to duplication of work. I have justified, in consultation with the Constitutional Committee, the fact that the current role of the Chancellor of Justice is, under supervision, quite successful and appropriate to the usability of resources. My view is based on the practical experience of both supreme law enforcement agencies. I have been with the Ombudsman's Office as rapporteur, Chief of Staff and Assistant Ombudsman for a total of almost a decade and then for a decade now, in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, first as Deputy Chancellor of Justice, whose main job is largely in line with the duties of ombudsmen, and then as Chancellor of Justice. The way I see it is that it would not have been possible to cut off the duties of the Chancellor of Justice from an operational point of view. Of course, I admit that there is always room for improvement in everything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u264	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 5/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u265	Madam President! There was no significant improvement in the economic situation of the euro area in the reporting year 2014, despite some optimism in the early part of the year. Over the course of the year, the euro area was increasingly lagging behind the growth figures of the world economy and the USA. For Finland, the growth of GDP started in 2013 halted and the current account remained in deficit on an annual basis. Unemployment continued to grow in the reporting year and private investment showed no signs of recovery. In its forecast published in September, 24 September 2015, the Bank of Finland estimated that growth in the world economy and trade would accelerate somewhat over the period 2015-2017, albeit at a slower pace than previously predicted. There were no major market failures in the euro area financial sector during the reporting year. As a new feature of the market, it can be seen that the financing of larger companies has partly shifted from the banking sector to the bond market and that the banks are increasingly active and competing with new financial operators. The European Central Bank’s monetary policy aims to maintain price stability, which is to keep inflation close to 2% in the medium term. The steering rates are calculated at their technical lower limit. The interest rate on the main refinancing operations was 0.05 %, the interest rate on the marginal lending facility was 0.3 % and the deposit rate was -0.2 %, and the ECB also decided in 2014 on a number of so-called ‘unusual’ monetary policy measures. These included targeted longer-term refinancing operations, asset-backed purchasing programmes and liquidity-providing measures in the financial markets. For Finland, the duration of the ECB’s activities may have a significant impact. The Committee draws serious attention to the fact that Finland's economic development is becoming more and more distant from the growth of the euro area. We must avoid a situation where, with the growth of the rest of the euro area, monetary policy will be tightened up without Finland having brought its economy into competitive shape. Both the Bank of Finland and Financial Supervision are increasingly affected by the development of the EU Banking Union. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the gradual entry into force of the banking union will also bring with it a series of new instruments for public authorities to ensure market stability at both macro and micro levels. The report shows that provision has been made for the entry into force of the new regulation and that cooperation between public authorities has been developed. These actions, as well as risk-based prioritisation of tasks, are necessary to cope with these tasks with scarce resources. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that, as a change in its previous investment activity, the Bank of Finland has also started investing its assets in shares at the end of the reporting year. Investments in equity funds have started in November 2014. Equity investments aim to achieve a better return on assets and, at the same time, to spread risks. According to the report, the Finnish banking sector has remained profitable and financially sound and the risk-based solvency of the insurance and occupational pension sector is also good. However, the Finnish banking sector is undergoing structural change. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that, in addition to the various mergers that have already been carried out and are under way, a significant change is planned for the Finnish financial markets if Nordea Bank Finland becomes a branch. Nordea Bank Finland's balance sheet accounts for 52 per cent of Nordea's Group's balance sheet and 66 per cent of the total balance sheet of Finland's banking sector. Finland's business is estimated to account for approximately EUR 100-150 billion of Nordea Bank's balance sheet. In addition, Nordea’s market share in different customer segments and banking products is approximately 30 per cent. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that this is a major credit institution not only for Finland but also for the EU market as a whole, whose activities can have a significant impact on the stability of the market. In the branch structure, Nordea Finland's operations would not be under the supervision and regulation of the Banking Union, which would have a restrictive effect on the powers and information of our national authorities. EU regulation allows branches to cooperate with authorities in the form of different colleges, but comprehensive information would be limited. The branch model may have an impact on the competitive conditions of our national markets and also on the financial basis of the operations of the Financial Supervisory Authority. With reference to the preliminary impact assessments above, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important that it be kept well informed about future developments and further impact assessments. The Committee on Economic Affairs considers that the report of the Banking Council provides a comprehensive report on financial market developments and the activities of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority during the reporting year. The structure of the report takes due account of the views expressed by the committee in the previous report. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted its report unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u266	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am the chairman of the Banking Council during the reporting year, and I therefore feel it necessary to point out, for the sake of clarity, that I am speaking in my role as a Member of Parliament, not as chairman of the Banking Council for the reporting year. I was thinking of commenting on the current economic situation. Unfortunately, there has been so much bad news from the labour market today that I think it is justified to comment on it from this authoritative forum, even though the sitting has been going on for many hours and even though there is no actual congestion in this Chamber at the moment. So today the social partners' negotiations on a labour market solution or a social agreement — whatever they want to call it — ended at least for the moment, I understand, above all, because one trade union, the ACP, had announced that they would not be involved in any agreement that might arise. In my opinion, this is very bad news for the Finnish economy, the Finnish economy, which is in a very sad situation anyway, and we face enormous challenges in getting our economy boosted, growth and therefore jobs for people. This failure of negotiations is bad news in any case, even if it did not appear recently that a result of negotiations would be emerging that would sufficiently improve Finland's cost competitiveness in relation to our key competitors. In any case, we need this improvement in cost competitiveness in Finland. Only by making Finnish work a little better for trade in the world, we get more new work in Finland, we get investments in Finland, we get orders in Finland and we get more work in Finland. Now that the negotiations have ended at least at this stage, it is important that the government proceed with its own legislative package, which has been referred to as "forced laws" and which will improve the competitiveness of Finnish work by reducing unit labour costs. Of course, this term "forced law" is easy and useful. At the same time, however, it is also propagandistic. You might as well talk about the government employment package, because these laws aim to make Finnish work more commercial and thus improve Finnish employment. It is important for the government to move forward, even though we all know that the laws currently under preparation, which, among other things, reduce holiday allowances, reduce holidays, increase the ownership of the first day of illness, extend annual working hours and so on, do not apply to the various categories of employees in a fair and fair way. Despite these factors, it is important that we move forward, because ultimately the government and the parliament elected by the people have a responsibility to ensure that the Finnish economy is managed as well as possible. And when the social partners have not made progress at their own negotiating table — the responsibility for the results that the social partners have, at least not at this stage — it is necessary for the government to move forward. We cannot stand by and watch the economic situation in Finland deteriorate. In this context, it is also important to step up the process of increasing local reconciliation, because local reconciliation is the way in which productivity can then be improved at grass-roots level as business opportunities, joint opportunities for companies and their staff, become more adaptable to different situations. Madam President! Finally, although the negotiations have now been broken down and the government is now stepping up its own employment law package, I hope, for my part, that next year we will see a situation in which a solution would still be sought through agreement, a solution that will improve the competitiveness of Finnish work. I think that would be a common interest for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u267	Madam President! In short, the concern expressed in the Banking Council's report about the state of the Finnish economy is quite right and critical enough. Mr Zyskowicz dealt with this very well in his own speech and I will sign every word he said. Indeed, when, for the fourth time today, attempts are now being made to create a social pact in Finland, which is trying to put the country's economy in order, precisely what the bank council is concerned about, now that this fourth time has failed again, for my part, I would like to see the organisations still finding the degree of tenacity and, above all, the necessary common sense for an agreement to be reached. If the Finnish people needed a Christmas present, it would be a social agreement, a common idea of the nation as a whole, that things should be put right in this country. Now is not the time for a fight. Now is the time for a settlement. The fact that we have fallen into this situation is quite clearly self-inflicted headaches and, as we know, there is only one way forward from the self-inflicted headache: to make improvements, to live better and to get things right. For Finland has always managed to do so, and I do not believe that this so-called backbone of this nation would have disappeared anywhere. Now we need a little more unity and, above all, the will to build this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u268	The 14th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u269	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u270	For table setting, the 16th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u271	The 17th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u272	For table setting, the 18th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-02-ps-74.u273	For table setting, the 19th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 3 December 2015.
