ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision is now made by Outi Alanko-Kahiluodon et al. on the question of the impact of government decisions on pensioners. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 21 October 2015. In the debate, Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u2	The fourth item in the order of business is presented as a single reading. The draft law can now be adopted without any change in substance by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast or rejected. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the bill be rejected. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 October 2015. In the debate, Ville Niinistö Krista Mikkonen has proposed that the bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u3	The proposal must be put to the vote. Anyone who accepts the Constitutional Committee's proposal to reject the draft law will vote 'yes'; one who will vote 'yes'; Ville Niinistö's proposal to adopt the bill will vote no. If at least two thirds of the votes cast are non-voting, Ville Niinistö's proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u4	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u5	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has adopted its report unanimously on the Annual Activity Report of National Pension Ombudsmans 2014. According to the Act on the Social Insurance Institution, Kela’s mandate is to supervise the administration and activities of the Social Insurance Institution, and the delegates will then always submit their reports to Parliament. The committee stresses that it is good that information content has been developed in this report in the direction required by previous reports. Now we have a better picture of the action. The Committee also stresses the need for further monitoring of the functioning and development of the electronic prescription and the electronic patient information archive by the delegates. This is a big change that affects the service system in many ways. The committee also notes that the administrative reform of the Social Insurance Institution is central and should be followed up in the future. Since then, the Social Insurance Institution has completed three years of the new "Towards a new Kela" programme, which has been aimed at improving services and increasing efficiency. The report notes that there has been an increase in online issues and that half of the applications have already been made via the online service. This can be welcomed and should be further developed. The committee also noted that the development of governance should also be reflected in the improvement of services and in the fact that the deadlines for passing applications can remain reasonable. This is a challenge, especially now that there are difficult economic times and the number of applications is likely to increase and have already increased. Economic austerity pressures have also affected the activities of the Social Insurance Institution through both operating expenses and cuts in benefits. With regard to travel allowances, the Committee stresses that this increase in ownership underlines the need to develop the combination of journeys and thus to maintain services. The committee also raised the issue of research. This general reduction in the resources of research institutes is also reflected in Kela's research activities, and the Committee therefore stresses that the availability of up-to-date research data on the impact of decisions is, however, being ensured. The committee also noted that the well-being of staff and sick absenteeism and the barometer have been at a good level, but it was stressed that, in the midst of administrative reform and these savings, attention should also be paid to issues of well-being at work. In particular, when new tasks, including those relating to income support, are now being carried out in Kela, there is a need for extensive information and careful planning for staff. The committee also noted that the human resources released from the increase in online contact should then be used to develop the skills required for new tasks and also to provide advice to customers and personal services. In their report, delegates have also dealt with the right of the Social Insurance Institution to provide information to different authorities on young people at risk of exclusion, and delegates have put forward a proposal to supplement the legislation. This was discussed by the committee and it was important that the government carefully evaluate these proposals and then also submit legislation to Parliament to amend the legislation if necessary. With these words, the committee has therefore unanimously approved this statement on the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u6	President! The report on the activities of the authorised persons of the Social Insurance Institution is available in the course of the proceedings in 2014. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health, when dealing with the report, has found that the information content of the report has been developed in the direction set out in previous reports by the committee, and this is positive, in particular with regard to the detailed economic and operational information provided by the annexes. The committee has also welcomed the fact that the Kela Annual Report also describes the activities from the perspective of sustainable development. We also discussed the functionality and development of the electronic prescription and patient information archive and stated that it is good to continue monitoring, as well as how the matters handled by the delegates are progressing in Kela's operations. Online contact has continued to increase at the Social Insurance Institution, and last year more than half of the applications were made through the online service. This is positive for the customers. It facilitates contacts and opportunities for citizens to act. The administrative district of the Social Insurance Institution was abolished and 5 insurance districts were transferred from 24 insurance districts. This new organisation will become operational at the beginning of next year. Development will of course continue in Kela's operations, that then all the pieces will fall into place. Customer satisfaction must continue to be safeguarded, and its development is one important thing in every area, and one must continue to strive for better. We also discussed the right of the Social Insurance Institution to provide information to different authorities on young people at risk of exclusion. Indeed, we discussed it and we see and consider it important that the Government carefully evaluates the proposals made and submits to Parliament, if necessary, a proposal to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u7	Madam President! The saving pressures of the economy have also affected Kela's operations through operating expenses and cuts in benefits. That is why, in our report, we members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health drew attention to the need to further develop the combination of taxi rides, for example, which Kela has replaced. Now, in many places, the inefficient provincial taxi rally swallows up a huge amount of money that does not yet take care of anyone. Kela paid EUR 175 million for taxi rides last year. The combined rides have been piloted in different parts of Finland and have actually saved $10 million. Those savings aren't out of anyone's welfare. Older people and society would benefit most from the fact that there are more people on the same ride and that on the same trip to the doctor, you can even go and do other things: shop, coffee, recreation, some hobby. We in North Savo are also looking into the possibility of involving public transport vehicles in the direct compensation procedure. I encourage the Government to work out new solutions in this area, too, together with the municipalities and the Finnish Taxi Association. Mr President! In their activity report, Kela’s delegates have also discussed the Kela information right for young people at risk of exclusion to different authorities and have made proposals for supplementing the legislation. According to the proposal, Kela should be required to provide information on income-free housing allowance recipients aged 15 to 28 who are held on its own initiative to the TE Office and to the authorities responsible for municipal social welfare and outreach youth work. There are 50,000 young people aged between 15 and 28 who are outside the labour force and study. Over 30,000 of them are particularly critical because they are not even registered as unemployed job seekers. Therefore, they are not covered by unemployment benefits either. It is these young people who are the subject of Kela's reporting obligation. According to studies, the risk of exclusion is significant for these young applicants for housing allowance without income. In any case, when their information is with one authority, it would only make sense for this body to pass it on to those operators who can do something about it. This slight change in the law would in particular reduce human suffering, which would result from exclusion, but would also save society costs. One person who is permanently excluded at a young age has a huge price for society, approximately EUR 1.2 million for the whole life. Displaced young people are sicker than their other peers, and they use other medicines and health services more than others. The report from the National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Youth Research Network shows that the total cost of social services for marginalised young people is up to seven times higher and the cost of medicines is up to ten times higher than for young people who are not at risk of exclusion. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health consider it important that the government carefully evaluates the information requirements and submits to Parliament, if necessary, a proposal to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u8	Mr President! I would like to raise two important points. In fact, although this report on the activities of Kela's delegates considers the past, it is good to look to the future here too, and it has also been mentioned in this committee's report. The second is the transfer of income support to Kela. I consider it a particularly critical success factor for the success of the transfer to Kela by bringing human capital from municipalities to move to Kela. I know that this is not a matter of course. There are long customer relationships, co-operation between benefit handlers and social workers, and if all this silent information that local government and municipal workers currently have disappears, I think it is a crucial loss. Therefore, I hope that Kela will assess what is such a critical mass of expertise, which should be able to be transferred from municipalities to Kela in the form of people when a income support transfer is made. There is not enough talk about this, nor about the fact that Kela has to learn a completely new kind of service guidance when income support is transferred there. A good example of this is the amendment to the Youth Act, in which a warning signal emerges in Kela about a young person who is excluded. But if our legislation prevents us from taking up and interfering and taking forward the matter, then it cannot be. This is now a good example of a good standard for the government, in which the issue can therefore be raised with regard to those who are completely deprived of income or who receive housing allowance. Especially now that detective youth work is the target of savings, these other means must be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u9	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for presenting this report. To note that it was good that the latest report by Kela's delegates was more or less in line with Parliament's wishes, that is to say, the informative nature of its report has been increased. One thing that remained, as it were, a place of development is the way things are moving forward, what the delegates have raised, and that is what the new delegates must look at. But let me say that the legislative projects raised by Kela's delegates will then be taken to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health by Kela, just as the previous representative said. It is then up to the government to take a close look, and it is important that the delegates also look after it carefully. Let me add that a major administrative reform has been carried out in Kela. The regional administration has been abolished from 26 insurance districts, moved to 5 insurance districts and thus prepared for social welfare reform. It is very important that we now monitor the way in which this major reform becomes customer services and it is important to note that, even if the administration is reduced, the services that are close to people are intended to be improved. It is important that Kela is accessible to all Finns. I would also like to say that the savings in operating expenditure that will be made by the Social Insurance Institution have been made more or less early. It is important to ensure that: Kela assumes its responsibility for economic activity, but it is important to secure sufficient resources. Thank you again to Kela's staff for the fact that, although new tasks have become, organisational reform has been carried out and the economy has been balanced, the treatment of benefits has been cleared up with honour, and that is a great thing. Those staff satisfaction numbers have also remained good. To conclude, Mr President, we have seen how important it is these days that there is enough research to ensure that the information studied is the basis for legislation. In that sense, maintaining the Kela Research Unit and sufficient resources are important for high-quality legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-23-ps-56.u10	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This Kela Annual Report contains key results from Kela's research work last year. One of these includes higher age, female gender, low education, low incomes, diseases and symptoms, and known lifestyle risks. Among the risk factors at work were shift work, physical work, part-time work and previous periods of unemployment. Lack of experience in the management of work and justice, as well as past absences, also anticipate incapacity to work, as well as straining life situations, discontent and hostility. Eastern and Northern Finland are geographically high-risk areas, and people with underlying diseases and mood symptoms who were aware of their health problems seemed to benefit best from rehabilitation. I therefore hope that the social welfare reform will put rehabilitation at the heart of the reform. Rehabilitation in work is at the heart of the Finnish welfare society and a very important investment in the future.
