ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u2	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u3	Mr President! The Government has decided to cut earnings-related unemployment benefit. We do well to remember that people who are unemployed without their own fault suddenly lose all their earned income. However, for such a significant loss of pay, we have built a bridge to carry out the worst job in the world. This bridge has just been that earnings-related unemployment benefit. It has created security for the wage and salary earners by not having to move out of their home immediately because of unemployment, for example. This reduction in the level of protection that is important to people is justified by the fact that it will increase employment. Minister Mäntylä, could you now tell us how many new jobs will be created for these unemployed people by cutting unemployment security?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u4	Mr President! This measure concerns one measure of the government as part of a wider package. The aim of the government is to reform social security and unemployment security in a way that specifically encourages people to take up work more encouragingly and we would also have a situation in which the unemployed and jobs would face up to a better level than before. These employment effects, which are now referred to in our proposal, are based precisely on the international research that has shown that such measures have, above all, a human activation effect. It is quite clear that this is not the only measure we are taking, this is one part of the wider picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u6	Mr President! When Rauma Shipyard was closed down, more than 700 people were single-handedly unemployed. One of the welders told me that he did everything he could to find the job. Earned support has somehow kept the family head on the surface, even though it has been very hard financially. Thousands of people around Finland are now looking for work like this welder. They themselves have not chosen to be unemployed. They are deeply concerned about their future and their economic survival. Many say that unemployment also brings a feeling of worthlessness. Minister Mäntylä, these people are not lazy without a job. They do not need such government encouragement, they do not need to be forced to work. Minister, they will go to work as soon as they find jobs. Minister Mäntylä, what do you say to this professional welder and thousands of active job seekers like him?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u7	Mr President! This brings us to the very question that I raised just now: we have a situation where we need to get the unemployed and the jobs to face up to the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u10	Mr President! Machine installer Suhonen has published an open letter to you, Mr. Minister of Labour, in the Savon Sanomat blog column. In his letter he writes: "You must have seen many close colleagues' families lost too much because of the job being taken out of hand. With this loss, it is extremely important that there is a backboard that will secure the moment until a new job or training is found. This last tailboard is an earnings-related unemployment allowance. Now you, Minister for Labour, are destroying this last butt. You're taking away from those who've already taken almost everything. I ask you, Minister, are you not ashamed?" This is how the engineer Suhonen concludes the article in his article. I ask you, Minister for Labour, how do you respond to this machine engineer, Mr Suhonen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u11	Madam Speaker! Are you ashamed? I'm not ashamed to make Finland fit. 500 days, 400 days and 300 days are these things that remain, not here to destroy this system. We will have to operate, we will have to make painful decisions, and you too will have to do so during the last parliamentary term. Every single one of them has to do these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u12	Minister Mäntylä completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u13	Mr President! I asked for the floor because, in August, Mr Rinne, in an interview with the economy, you yourself said that you were also prepared to discuss an income-related unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u14	Madam President! We have about ten times the number of unemployed in relation to the number of job vacancies — ten times the ratio, ten times the number of unemployed than the number of job vacancies. Now the government has decided to cut off the unemployed, which the previous government did not do, and justifies this with encouragement. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Soini, you have been snooping around in that box during this debate. I would like to ask you a simple question: if we have some 20,000 job vacancies and more than 200,000 unemployed, how does this incentive now make these 20,000 job vacancies more than 200,000 jobs to which the unemployed people are moving?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u15	Madam President! For a moment I thought Mr Arhinmäki was singing, but this did not happen. Mr President! The concern of the unemployed is 100 %, and first of all we must assume that the existing jobs will be maintained. This means that we must take care of cost competitiveness, investment, financing, all of this. The government will do its best to ensure that these conditions are met and that these jobs are created in which people can go to work. We need more employers, we need more investment from the public sector, as the government, for example, does infraan, and that will provide opportunities for jobs. But the State is an enabler, the State cannot be the last-hand employer but an enabler.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u16	Mr President! When you are healthy and able to work and you are offered work, I think you should accept it, that is quite clear. I think everyone in this Chamber will agree with that. But, Mr President, I did not think that unemployment benefit should be reduced. I have offered several times in this Chamber an option to avoid these surgeries. It is that 15,000 people are employed by mobilising the basic daily allowance: EUR 705 per month for the journey, and for work when work is available. This is the Socialist option in this situation, not to cut people who need unemployment benefit, length of unemployment benefit or level of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u17	Did anyone find a question? — Next, Mr Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u18	Mr President! There is strong evidence in international and Finnish research literature that reducing the duration of unemployment benefit will reduce periods of unemployment and hence structural unemployment, but of course it will be facilitated by facilitating labour demand. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Lindström, to remind and tell this Chamber what measures the government is planning to take to reduce the threshold for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u19	Madam President! Exactly, Mr Vartiainen hit the heart of the matter. Once again, we have to go into that government program and see what's going on there. As Mr Soini, the Deputy Prime Minister, said, we need to get that industrial policy in order to have the jobs that people can then go to. It does not make any sense that we are in some kind of unemployment policy and trying to put it in order if industrial policy does not work. That is what this is all about. All these measures taken by the government — including the dismantling of incentives traps, inclusive social security, basic income — are related to the fact that it is worthwhile to take up work. It's not like we're picking on each other. I understand this pain, which the Socialists and probably the whole gym have, that when you have to cut it, it hurts, but you also cut unemployment benefit last year, earnings-related, 50 million, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u20	Mr President! That is precisely why there is no more room for surgery. The question is that if a benefit has been calculated, it will not be any better with it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u21	Madam President! Representative Filatov in half of those words told just what the government is doing here. So we're making a change, right? This is a government of change, this is the first government in a time that also makes a change in the management of unemployment. When we don't have the money, we have to do things differently. We are in debt, and at the same time we should try to get growth. This is a really big challenge, but it is not at all the result of anything being presented, so it seems not to be good enough. It does not seem good for you or many others, but nevertheless the government believes in this programme of its own, and that is important at this stage. And we believe that in two years' time the direction will change and that there will be jobs for those people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u22	Mr President! Our social security system certainly has a place for reform in order to encourage work and strengthen people's basic security. But it's worth confessing, government: To pay-related safety, you're only doing a clean operation. This is not about reform, it is about surgery. It seems that the government is a slightly divided personality in its employment policy, and I would like to ask Minister Mäntylä and Minister Vehviläinen about that. On the other hand, some believe that the most important thing for people to get into employment is to make work and social security a viable one, with a bridge from social security to employment. Basic income is based on the fact that when a person can, in a way, take part of social security with him when he goes to work, work would always be profitable and people have a strong basis to try, try for themselves, be proactive. But at the same time as you are thinking about the basic income experiment, you are thinking about scruples, punishments, cuts in people’s rights to work and thinking that restrictions would allow people to get to work. In the context of inclusive social security, many of the means are slightly similar to this kind of forced labour,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u23	Mr President! After all, our social security system is extremely challenging. To put it bluntly, it has been made over the years that it is very difficult to find these particular incentive traps or to start unloading them in the first place. That is why the STM is now actively working on the very fact that we are able to clean up this system and find precisely the pain points through which we are better able to activate people to receive the work as well. These will certainly feel that these measures, as individual measures, are only clean cuts: Yes, this is also a cut according to the record of the government programme, no one denies it, but it does not exclude all the other things that we are doing there all the time in the background and are trying to make it always worthwhile to accept work. The basic income experiment is also one possibility to find them in different ways
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u24	Mr President! I will continue with the speech by Minister Mäntylä. So we have over 120 benefits in Kela's benefits, which is a huge amount, we have a very fragmented social security system. During the last parliamentary term, a joint decision was reached in this Chamber on this EUR 300 component, which is a good thing, a good step, and it has been adopted by thousands of people. But then we must remember that we cannot rely only on the means we currently have, and that is why we have also taken the initiative in this basic income experiment and we want to put it on the move as quickly as possible. So let's start modeling right now in the next few weeks. This is done by the Research Department of the Social Insurance Institution with the University of Tampere, and the aim is that by the beginning of 2017 at the latest we will have this experiment underway. I hope that it will be welcomed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u25	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u26	Mr President! Many people with earnings-related earnings do not yet need any other social security, but now, with this decision, you are driving people into other social security systems, precisely where you say you are encouraging people away. Minister Mäntylä, you say that you encourage the unemployed to work by weakening their security during unemployment. Minister, I'm really scared of what you'd do if you wanted to punish the unemployed. Minister Mäntylä, do you really not believe that by supporting and helping people, they can achieve better results than by coercion and punishment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u27	Mr President! It is precisely this activation that we have been working on all along with these various measures, and the message that I have received from various organisations, for example, is precisely that, at the beginning of unemployment, there should be much stronger activation measures, because we all know that the further that unemployment continues, the more difficult it will be to work and then the situation will pass. That is what we are aiming for now, that we activate the various measures, that we target those measures specifically at the beginning of unemployment, so that unemployment is not prolonged. I hope that it has now come to the fore that we are working on a number of different points and sectors, working hard to break down those incentives, we are finding the means of activation, we are also finding those jobs, including those quiet jobs, but also encouraging the active search for work in every way and employment, that our labour market policy
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u28	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u29	Mr President! It is good to hear that the management of unemployment is going to be active rather than passive, but it just does not seem to be so when you look at these measures. We have, for example, a youth guarantee which has tried to cut unemployment for all under 25 years of age and those under 30 years of age before it is prolonged for more than three months, that is, exactly what Minister Mäntylä is talking about. Youth unemployment has not been overcome, but its growth has been reversed and, above all, it has prevented the social exclusion of young people. However, even though the Youth Guarantee has been raised as the top project in the Government Programme, there is no money for it. On the contrary, when the previous government invested EUR 60 million in it, next year funding will fall to less than half and the following year to almost zero, a total of 96 per cent. When all parties have assured us that they want to develop the Youth Guarantee more effectively, I ask the Minister: how will this preventive and active treatment of unemployment be developed when it is taken away?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u30	Madam President! The Youth Guarantee will be developed in the direction of the Community guarantee. Of course, we know what the experience of the Youth Guarantee is — it is good, but then it must be critical: it has failed in part. And it is precisely now that measures are being targeted at the number of young people at risk of falling. It is like the idea here: once again, when less money is allocated, it is targeted at measures that are believed to be effective. We understand, of course, this criticism of what the representative is targeting on youth guarantee funds, but there are measures inside that can also be used for this, and the Community guarantee is our new direction. — Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u31	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u32	Mr President! Indeed, the government is committed to developing the Youth Guarantee as a Community guarantee. Yesterday, in committee, I asked an expert what this means from the point of view of those working with young people. The answer was rather cold: we do not know, but probably it means that in future we will work together but without money. As part of the Youth Guarantee, EUR 6 million will be cut from youth work, which has reached more than 20,000 missing young people every year, those young people we are all concerned about and which will be a big bill to this society if they are not taken care of. At the same time, cutting down on workshop activities and employment appropriations, such as pay subsidies, the Sassi card and the work experiment, means that thousands of young people will be lost in the coming years. All of these young people have an untenable decline. This is estimated to be EUR 600 million a year — a huge reduction in small savings. So I ask the Minister: how can we afford to leave this debt to younger people if even the financial debt is too much for the government? How will we get young people involved in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u33	Madam President! The Government is committed to developing a young people's guarantee, which has been launched in the previous period, in a whole new direction. What was the problem with the youth guarantee model in the previous period, as noted by the National Audit Office in its report and a number of other studies, was that it did not reach the most vulnerable young people, namely those with a wide range of problems. That is the problem that we want to tackle, precisely by developing the Youth Guarantee in the direction of the Community guarantee, and then we need models where young people get help from one door. Our key projects aim to develop these, including the extension of Ohjaamo services, which are such one-stop-shop services for young people. There is, of course, also a need for measures in the field of social and health care, which the ministers of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will be able to respond to in more detail. In addition, this Youth Guarantee is an essential part of the continuation of the training month, where the idea is to guarantee a place of education for every young person who has completed secondary education. In other words, the future for young people will be built by developing these services, existing services, to work together better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u34	Mr President! To this end, I would like to say that this youth guarantee or Community guarantee is always made there at local level, and I would like to remind you that, for the coming year and this parliamentary term, we do not in fact have any cuts in the shares of the municipalities. Youth work is done in the municipalities there, and I would also like to point out that under the leadership of Minister Wallin, under the leadership of the Vanhanen Second Government, this detective youth work was carried out, which means that we have these methods which have been brought together over several years. I find it somewhat foreign to the idea that the mere amount of funding we put in here on the Youth Guarantee or the Community Guarantee would solve it. I think it is important that these common models were developed during the last parliamentary term, but they cannot be limited to state funding. We know that this Community guarantee, which the government is seeking here, is also linked to our better cooperation with organisations, and organisations will also have a big role to play here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u35	Mr President! I am sure no one here is opposed to the development of the Youth Guarantee, but this way in which the government is developing again is more about taking away the resources which, for example, at the local or regional level could do this development. Let me give one example: now the government thinks that we can get young people to work by giving them a little more stick, not by, for example, developing the Sanssi card in the direction of increasing pay subsidies, so that we can get these young people, who are specifically unemployed, to work there and not to leave them to their own devices. If you think that you want to encourage young people to be entrepreneurs, even as I'm sure many people here want to be, then it will certainly work better if you give them a little carrot instead of taking hope away again and letting them be in their own happiness. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what you think will work better: giving a carrot or giving a stick?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u36	Mr President! Yes, there are both-and-models in this toolbox. Of course, I believe that the carrot is encouraging, but everyone must now understand that there is no money. There's no point in going through that wall and whining when there's a pretty limited amount of it. With less money, you have to be able to do things smarter. That's what this is all about. Just as Minister Grahn-Laasonen said, last season's youth guarantee experience has been brought together, assessed by VTV, assessed it critically, which succeeds, which does not. Now that they're giving the impression that it's like we're about to stop all the pay support, start-up money, it's not like that. They still exist, these measures are still in place. Of course, there's not as much money as there used to be. You just have to do things in a smarter way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u37	Mr President! It is good that Parliament is having a debate on the future of young people in these difficult economic times, because it is of course important that we give everyone the opportunity to get the door open to work, to start the education path and, as it were, to have the experience of meaning in their lives that work can bring, what was mentioned in the previous debate. But at the same time, as was said in the previous debate, our employment situation is not very good. I'd like to ask the Minister for Labour: Last season, with regard to the Youth Guarantee, I remember a strong criticism of the bureaucratic nature of its model from the point of view of entrepreneurs. We know that, in this case too, this youth unemployment is best dealt with by nothing other than the fact that young people receive jobs and should be found in companies. Do we have any way of opening up the doors to businesses better so that young people in particular would have the first chance of entering the job? What are the measures, as it were, not just these forms of support, but how do you see this whole: young people, entrepreneurs, and hence the path to working life?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u38	Mr President! Mr Saarikko did raise a very important issue, because this is what the young people themselves had been asked about, how they experienced this. If it is difficult at all, if it is difficult at all, if you feel that you have to wear the labels of all the world, then it will not be done. We need to make it a much lower threshold. Here we come to the line of this new government to get rid of this unnecessary regulation, bureaucracy, and that is one area where we need to get rid of these. Young people have neither the time nor the interest to get to know the most difficult things, but it must be as simple as possible for both the entrepreneur and the young so that they meet each other and then move forward. That's a really good question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u39	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u40	Mr President! Personally, I would think that the indignation in the Chamber is not so much due to the lack of understanding that there are limited amounts of money, but because when you look at the government figures and the message on the one hand, it seems that they do not add up. It has also been mentioned today that it is precisely those most vulnerable young people who want to be reached. But if we are thinking about detective youth work and cuts to it, that support has been the most important thing, the smaller the municipality is involved. Now that it is being cut down on youth work, for example, in their smaller municipalities it can mean that when they do not receive that support, it will be completely abolished or the resources will be reduced very much. At the same time, we are talking about young people living in a sparsely populated area, where the services are already far away, and then there will be a great deal of concern for these young people in particular. How does the government see how all young people can be brought into the good life of the nation in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u41	Mr President! The representative, Mr Toivola, has just described the fact that there is concern about how these services reach the young people. That is precisely where this top project of ours is being shielded, that it is at the heart of the question of how we can provide services to young people on a one-stop shop basis. It is not a question of individual projects, which solve this problem, but of our whole service system and the fact that it is being done — it is a little new operating culture, I know it, because I have seen quite a bit of the inside of this system, that it is not always quite easy and does not always know how to operate between sectors. Here, for example, social and health services, education issues, youth services and employment and employment services: this combination must be made to work in such a way as to help the young person. It is the important and essential thing that every young person is confronted with and that every young person is tailored for the service he needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u42	Next question, Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u43	Madam President! Today, Minister Harri Hietala, who has been appointed by Minister Lindström in the summer, published her own report on how local agreements should be developed. Here on the left, I looked forward to the report by Hietala, the liquidator, but it must be said with comfort that Hietala has taken up the right issues, namely respect for the universally binding collective agreement and so on. Now I would like to ask Minister Lindström: are you the oars who, in this government, want to commit themselves to the work of the liquidator that we do not have to make a local agreement, that local agreement must not be dictated, that it must be a genuine agreement based on transparency? And equally, is it the case that this government does not promote coercion but brings this issue to the tripartite preparation and thus flows as it has gone on? So, Minister Lindström, are you the herald of the liquidator?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u44	Mr President! That's a timely question. I have this report here in my hands, and when it was handed over to me today by Harri Hietala, I said to the public when we went into the details that the government will now look at what the liquidator is proposing. His mandate was to find out what the possibilities are for further progress in local agreement. This is not a mandatory law. This strengthens the general commitment. This does not diminish the freedom of agreement, but increases it, and I think this is important: if this is done correctly — and hopefully when it is done — it will revolutionise Finnish working life in a positive way. It is, of course, too early to answer a specific point at this stage, because this report has not yet been dealt with in any way within the government. It's been handed over to me today. So I am also familiar with the ideas of the Left Alliance, and I hope you will send me your own ideas regarding local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u45	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u46	Madam President! It is a pleasure to hear that Mrs Lindström believes that this is not the point where universality is not to be addressed. I would at least like to interpret this as such, and I hope that we will be able to say together in this same Question Time that the pay is not affected by local agreement. We want to reject the hidden introduction of the German model through this, which, however, is hidden in the report of the liquidator in the second option, i.e. employers have the right to start discussions on the uncertainty arising from the economic situation in the company. It can't be our agent in this situation. We must be able to combat the fact that, due to miscalculations by management, the economic situation has deteriorated as a result of poor trade. It cannot mean creating an artificial competitive environment in the business world, so that wages can be negotiated downward by the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u47	Mr President! I did not quite find the question, but the idea, yes, and, as I said, this report has been handed over today and now the government is looking into it. And once the government has studied every detail, it will then outline how it intends to proceed in this regard. So, on this occasion, I will not tell you what will happen, because I am not the only one who decides on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u48	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski, you will understand that we must also state the fact that, when the economy is tight, all the benefits achieved can no longer be maintained. Some reforms must be made, and the priority is the maintenance of jobs, and jobs will not survive if no reforms are made, because the money is exhausted. I therefore appeal to the Socialists and the Left to seek a compromise when these negotiations are being held with the social partners so that they do not come up with these painful decisions, which are, for example, holiday money cuts, which have already been chosen, because there were alternatives, for example, three minutes more working hours. But no alternative has been put forward by the Socialists, not even the first option. It is not an option to say that 15,000 people will find employment. It is not a job, it is a place of employment and these jobs should be created by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u49	I wonder if this is a question. — Mr Myllykoski has a representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u50	Madam President! Mr Niikko, as an ugly thing, I can tell you that if the labour market were to be freed by that philosophy, so that it could be paid to compete, it has been suggested from the Construction Union that if this were the case that wages could compete, there would not be any Finnish employees in the sector. They would be produced from somewhere else, and a Finnish worker would not be able to work. If we go to a wage race so that local agreement makes it possible to agree on people’s wages, companies will go out and compete with each other about it, and whoever does the cheapest does the work. And when done cheaply enough, it is not done by a Finnish worker. Deputy Prime Minister Timo Soini, do you agree with me that a Finnish worker and a construction worker should be given the opportunity to work in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u52	Madam President! I agree exactly that a builder and plumber, a truck or someone else, needs work, needs conditions, and we need profitable business through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u55	Madam President! I would assume that the Minister of Labour has — and that is why I ask for assurance — been familiar with the work reform carried out under the leadership of Peter Hartz in Germany. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was in Berlin looking at this document and the circumstances. Germany was in a similar economic situation in 2000 as Finland is now, and its survival has been substantially influenced by the modernisation of the labour market so that local agreements on wages were also possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u56	Mr President! It is precisely this idea, which the representative of the magazine threw there, that we just need to change this Finnish working life. There's nothing to do with that. Otherwise, we will not be able to cope with this challenge, where we are. I find it incomprehensible that I am accused of not defending a Finnish worker by sitting on this board, and I am the errand boy of the EK, when Astrid Thors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u57	Next question, Congressman Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u58	Mr President! Finlands regering stöder kommissionens förslag till EU:s gemensammat liitto om så kallade säkra ursprungsländer. A total of seven countries are listed: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and also Turkey. These countries would therefore be considered safe countries of origin when dealing with asylum applications, allowing their citizens to process their applications more quickly. So one of the countries on this list is Turkey. It is very difficult to see that The human rights situation in Turkey would have improved so much recently that it could automatically be considered a safe country of origin. For Finland’s foreign policy, the Government’s policy now raises questions. The Government's position may give the impression that Finland's position on the human rights situation in Turkey has changed. For example, the human rights situation in Turkey has been one of the main problems in the negotiations on Turkey's possible membership of the EU. This issue will be discussed today at the European Council dinner, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: do you not see Turkey's presence on this list as a problem at all? How do you assess the human rights situation in Turkey and the role of the Kurds? Is Finland's official position now that the human rights situation in Turkey is in all its aspects good, and do Finland and Sweden, for example, differ in this respect?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u59	Madam President! First of all, the government's immigration policy is based on the fact that countries that are safe can be restored — that is the basic premise. As far as Turkey is concerned, Turkey is a candidate country for the EU, just like the rest of them, and the government's position is that it cannot be a candidate country for the European Union if it cannot be defined as a safe country. And if Turkey were not a safe country, how would it be safe to have between 1 and 2 million Syrian refugees? There's no way. Of course, the Turkish Government is also rough, but there are, for example, PKK terrors and now bomb explosions, possibly by Isil. That country needs our support, it needs cooperation, and in such a way that Turkey is involved in the process, we have a dialogue and then we have an opportunity to talk to Turkey.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u60	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u61	Mr President! It is a question of: The human rights situation in Turkey has been precisely one of the main problems in the negotiations on Turkey's possible membership of the EU, which means that this problem exists, otherwise these negotiations would have gone in a favourable direction long ago. I ask Minister Soin — and perhaps it would also be interesting in the midst of such a huge refugee crisis to hear a little more broadly: how does the government assess the security of individual countries specifically for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u62	Madam President! Turkey is at the heart of this major refugee and migration crisis, and cooperation is also needed here. I spoke with the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, and we said together that wide-ranging international cooperation aimed specifically at resolving the conflict in Syria, the solution of the conflict in Iraq, is the way in which this is most effective. Then as far as safe countries are concerned — just as you said, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, other such: Yes, we must dare say that these countries are safe countries, which can be returned to people and whose citizens are economic migrants or come to work, but they cannot have refugee status, because these countries are safe countries with a lower standard of living than we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u63	Mr President! I would like to ask when this government policy is not clear in the immigration talks either, which line you are taking. I think it is excellent to see that these crises, which are present in the world, are now making a huge mass flow to Europe too, and I think that the Finnish forces should also try to resolve these crises, and now that we are looking at your policy, so disappointing is the fact that words have not gone into action. It is quite a big thing that at all levels these acts do not seem to arise, and that is why I think it was great that you, Mr Soini, the Prime Minister's deputy, have just said that this crisis in Syria should be tackled in some way. But neither the development appropriations nor these resolution funds show this line, and I therefore believe that we should be able to resolve our involvement in the resolution of these crises before we have refugee flows. And I think we owe you an explanation now because, for example, I have a whole busload in that gallery. [President MariaLohela : Representative Kiuru, question ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u66	Madam President! Finland is pushing for a comprehensive solution to this. The measures taken by the government are effective, and it is quite clear that they are not born at a turn of the hand. But a new assessment of the flow of refugees to Finland has already been made. It fell sharply: the previous forecast was 50,000, now it is over 30,000. These need all measures, safe countries, negotiations, and I myself have been negotiating a return agreement with the Iraqi Foreign Minister. And then... Yes, the government is planning an additional budget specifically to help on the ground, because it is much more effective, it is much more humane and because we avoid the disgusting things of human smugglers, in which people even choke on trucks. We cannot be promoting this kind of criminal activity in such a way that we ignore the eyes of such criminal activity. We'll have to inject them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u67	Mr President! Do you agree with me, Minister Soini, that it is somewhat misleading to talk only about safe countries? We should talk about the safe areas that exist in these countries too. If we only talk about countries, then we will rule out quite a lot of opportunities to return people who are currently unjust in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u68	Madam President! The Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Salolainen, once again said the essence, as he used to do. It didn't even take a minute. That is what this is all about. In Somalia, Iraq, many countries have safe areas that should be classified as such that once they have come, they can also be returned there. This is sensible, but it is also human.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u69	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u70	Madam President! Today, the Government has adopted the so-called accompanying laws that follow the transformation of the marriage institution into a gender-neutral. Since 2002, we have had a good pan-European practice in which we have a law on relationships for same-sex couples and a law on marriage for people of different sex. Now, however, this has been changed by the government, and this will result in very major changes to the Freedom of Religion Act, the Transjugal Act, the Relationship Act and also the new interpretation of the Adoption Act. I would have asked the minister concerned: was the government unanimous in its sitting today, i.e. were all the government parties behind these motions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u71	Mr President! The Government has implemented the decision taken by the previous Government and Parliament and has been unanimous in its session.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u72	Mr President! Indeed, today, Minister Berner presented this matter to the Government for me because I was prevented. I have been asked today what will happen to this matter in the future, whether or not I will continue to be prevented from doing so. This matter will come to the House next week and I cannot escape my responsibility, yes I have to bring it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u73	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u74	Madam Speaker! Of course, it is good to know that the government is behind this proposal so unanimously, the Finns of Peru are involved. It is estimated that with the increased number of civil marriages, the workload of the Local Register Office could increase temporarily, but no greater increase is believed. However, this ignores the fact that the Christian churches, which do most of the marriage ceremony, have not yet formed a position on this new, future situation. It is very possible that when the concept of marriage changes radically in this way some churches may then also give up the right to marry. This will certainly increase the number of civil marriages and also increase the costs of local register offices. Would it now be necessary to re-evaluate this proposal in this respect, for example, and have this aspect been taken into account in the present proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u75	Madam President! Of course, all these aspects have been assessed, but, nevertheless, we have now started to take this issue forward. I am aware that there may be some pressure here to come to the Local Register Offices and then the number of these civil marriages may indeed rise, but I have understood that this is not about any huge amounts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u76	Mr President! A very important point was made here. This proposal has come from the previous government and the project has been inherited from it. This has therefore not changed the concept of marriage of any current group or party in the government in any way, but will, of course, be dealt with because it has been committed to it during the previous parliamentary term. I ask the minister in question when my memory wants to fail: do you think there will be any binding record of this in the government programme, or will this be treated as a matter of conscience, in which case everyone can vote as he wishes, whether in the government or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u77	Mr President! Refreshing memory: there is no entry. So I interpret the matter as a matter of conscience.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u79	Mr President! True, the adoption and entry into force of the law certainly give rise to further consideration in Christian, ecclesiastical and religious communities that now have the right to marry. Each person then makes his own decisions within the time frame he can. Representative Essayah raised the issue of the amendment to other legislation, including the adoption law, when this new equal marriage law came into force. It is easy to imagine that adoption in a new situation would mean that children can then, of course, be adopted in a marriage of the same sex. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: is it the case that adoption by means of the new law becomes a subjective right, or is it, as is the case today, that adoption in each individual case is always based on careful consideration and examination of whether this couple is a suitable adoptive family?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u80	Mr President! It is, of course, a little difficult to answer such a detailed question through my thin law. I would imagine that the issue of adoption is so serious that it is not intended to build a bypass, but always to evaluate each case separately, because this is a very big decision. But so that I do not speak of myself in the bag, I promise to clear this up and answer this question to the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u81	We have one more question to ask. Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u82	Madam President! Over 20,000 asylum seekers have arrived in Finland this year. According to the latest estimate published yesterday by the Ministry of the Interior, as many as 35,000 applicants will arrive in the course of this year, which is ten times as many as we have been able to get used to in recent years. The overwhelming majority of asylum seekers coming to Finland, up to 70%, are Iraqis. The Government has done the right thing in launching measures to tighten our asylum practices for Iraqis at the level of the rest of the Nordic countries. In the rest of the Nordic countries, Iraq is considered to be, for the most part, a safe country where Iraqis who have received a negative asylum decision can be returned. However, there is no return agreement for Finland. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: what is the stage in the negotiations for a return agreement with Iraq?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u83	Madam President! An important and fundamental question. It is the government that assumes that the matters of those who really need asylum will be settled. But we must also have a system to ensure that if people do not meet this standard — and it is now quite obvious that not everyone does — they can be returned on the basis of law and agreement. I have had this discussion with the Iraqi Foreign Minister in New York. That's where the letter went. Jarno Syrjälä from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been active here and also Ambassador Pekka Hyvönen. We are taking this issue forward with vigour, and we have good models and cooperation with the Nordic countries as well, so that we can have the same type of return agreement with them, so that asylums go to those in real need and have a strong signal effect on not paying themselves sick to human smugglers and robbers and taking a big risk because if you do not meet the standards, you will be returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u84	Is there any further desire to ask further questions on this subject?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u85	Some of the Nordic countries also have a similar return agreement with Somalimaa. Somaliland can also be considered a relatively peaceful area. Minister Soini, is it realistic to expect a return agreement to be reached with Somalia as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u86	Madam President! As in the past, in the case of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Salolainen, for example: we must also examine these aspects, both in relation to Iraq, in relation to Somaliland and in relation to all the other countries to which these matters can be applied. This must be the rule of law. But these big things must be guaranteed for those who are really in need, and at the same time you must give a strong signal effect: if you are in a safe country, if you are in a safe area, if you are not in need of life, do not pay the smugglers, do not pay the traffickers because you are being returned. This is the crystal clear line of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u87	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 3 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take no longer than 3 minutes. Mr Rydman will begin the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u88	Madam President! For a long time, the too low level of convictions for sexual offences has been one of the most serious flaws in our judicial system. Judgments are unhelpful in relation to the seriousness of the actions. In order to remedy this problem, a number of measures have been included in the Spring Government Programme, and I am pleased that there is now also an urgent need for tougher penalties in the form of a citizens' initiative. According to the Institute of Legal Policy, the penal practices of sexual abuse of a child vary considerably from court to court. This also applies to the number of cases reported to the police. However, it is clear that almost all cases do not come to the attention of the police at all. The real numbers can only be guessed. In Sweden, it is estimated that only around 3-12% of child sexual abuse is reported to the police. The number of cases of sexual abuse against children has increased by as much as eight times since 1980. This does not necessarily mean that the sexual abuse of children has increased, but that changes in the number of cases are driven by more effective control by the authorities and an increase in the risk of being caught. In this respect, however, progress has been positive. According to the Government Programme, the rules on first-time residence and the level of punishment for violent crimes and serious sexual crimes against children will be tightened. The possibilities for improving the effectiveness of conditional prison sentences are also reviewed, including short unconditional imprisonment. The risk assessment of released prisoners will also be extended. The citizens' initiative demands that the minimum penalty for serious sexual abuse of a child be increased to 2 years in prison, with virtually suspended conditional sentences. This must be seen as an essential element, in particular because of the repeated conditional convictions of serious sexual abuse of the child, allowing the offender to continue to operate. The issues raised in the citizens' initiative do not conflict with the Government Programme, but complement it well. There is also a pressing need for tougher sanctions. If rape is solved by a brief conditional sentence, not many people will even consider it a punishment. But raping a victim leaves a lifetime of scars. The results of the child victim survey show that there was also a considerable accumulation of other victim experiences and risk factors likely to predispose young people in Finland who had experienced abuse. We can't afford this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u89	I would remind Members that the three-minute speeches can also be held there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u90	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for raising this important issue in the debate and for collecting this over 50,000 signatures, which is what is required for the citizens' initiative. Your citizens' initiative calls for the minimum punishment of serious sexual crimes to be imprisonment, the duration of which is determined by the seriousness of the offence. Current legislation does not reflect citizens' sense of justice. I agree with the authors of the initiative that the Finnish Penal Code is far too light on gross crimes, of which sexual crimes against children are the worst extreme. This is very difficult to understand. It is not enough to justify the fact that we cannot afford to increase the cost of prison care. There is a clear question of value choice as to what kind of signal the legislation sends to a person who commits a serious crime. The suffering of the victim must also be taken seriously, and fine words do not help much. Mr President! Finnish legislation promotes the interests of criminals at the expense of children in other ways. In addition to a minor sentence, the sentenced person will hardly ever have to carry out his entire sentence in prison, but will be released on parole at the latest when one third of the sentence remains. If the offender is a so-called first-time offender, i.e. has not been in prison for the last three years, the release will take place no later than halfway through the sentence, and a person under 21 will only be in prison one third of his sentence. It's all over the place. It is up to us as legislators to protect citizens, especially children, but unfortunately the truth is different. It is therefore worth acknowledging that we, the decision-makers elected by the people, have failed badly in this task. Mr President! I therefore recommend to Parliament two concrete measures to improve the protection of children and young people against sexual offenders: First of all, preventive measures. According to the Helsinki police, the victims of sexual offenders are increasingly younger. The situation is even more distorted. On websites aimed at children, it is easy for a criminal to appear as a child or young person and to engage in sexual exploitation, for example through a camera. In some cases, online contacts lead to a meeting where the accused is having sexual intercourse with the victim. The protection of children and young people, in particular, against harmful mild phenomena on the Internet, is of paramount importance and must be achieved both by stepping up the fight against crime, by tightening penalties and by improving the safety education of young internet users. In Great Britain, a safety button has been identified as an effective means of preventing sexual crimes. It is an internet system that is especially connected to popular chat rooms for children and young people and can easily be reported in an unsafe situation by printing it. In this parliamentary term, therefore, the government should find out how to make the system available to us as well. Mr President! As another proposal, as a measure, I recommend the adoption of the citizens' initiative. We must have the courage to raise the legislation on combating sexual offences to a pan-European level, to raise the penalty scale for sexual offences. These two measures will lead us in a fairer direction, and we will certainly recognise this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u91	Madam President! Citizens' initiatives are needed in democracy as a new form of participation. Thank you for bringing about such a citizens' initiative. This citizens' initiative on the strengthening of the penalty scale for sexual offences against children addresses as an important issue the improvement of the child's status through more appropriate punishment practices. The low length of convictions for serious sexual crimes against children has led to a lot of public debate. However, just as the initiative states, sexual crimes against children are serious violations of fundamental and human rights. From this point of view, the rights to personal liberty and integrity and the protection of private life, protected in particular by the Constitution, are relevant. Mr President! The aim of the Government Programme is to find out that the penalties correspond to the general sense of law and that the penalties for offences are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. In addition, the level of punishment for serious sexual offences against children will be reviewed. As a first step in the legislative process, I have also taken a legislative initiative to raise the penalty scale for serious sexual crimes against children. This initiative has already been signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament, and I would like to thank you all for signing it. Mr President! The relevance of the citizens' initiative is that the initiative proposes that the minimum penalty for serious sexual abuse offences against children be increased to at least 2 years in prison, i.e. to the same level as in serious rape offences. The aim of the initiative is to improve the position of the child through a more appropriate punishment procedure and to harmonise the practice of punishment in serious sexual abuse offences against children. Aggravated rape has been punishable by a minimum of 2 years and a maximum of 10 years in prison. An aggravated sexual abuse of a child has been punishable by a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 10 years of imprisonment. The penalty scale therefore allows the judgment given to be conditional. In this citizens' initiative, it is therefore important that, with the proposed amendment, the penalty for gross sexual abuse of a child should be absolute imprisonment. As a general rule, at the end of the scale, punishment is usually conditional. This is due to the fact that according to the Criminal Code, a term of imprisonment of up to two years may be suspended unless the seriousness of the offence, the guilt of the offender or the previous criminal offence requires absolute imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u92	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to strengthen the penalty scale for sexual crimes against children is good and consistent with the public's sense of justice. Especially now that the resources of the authorities are under test due to the refugee crisis, legislators need to create the conditions for the prevention of crime. One way is, of course, to tighten up penal legislation. The case-laws must be harmonised in order to ensure that judicial decisions are comparable and consistent. A similar sentence should be given for the same crime, not for some to survive on parole and some to be sent to brickheads to read. Stronger and consistent penalties could act as a deterrent. Unfortunately, the courts often apply only the lowest part of the penalty scale. Man’s right to immunity is sacred, and violating the immunity of children is extremely incriminating. Recently, in addition to dozens of rapes, the District Court of Espoo found a man guilty of aggravated child abuse, the latter of which is a more serious offence on our penalty scale. Rape can be sentenced to 1 to 6 years imprisonment and aggravated sexual abuse of a child for 1 to 10 years. The Court's arguments are, of course, usually secret. A total sentence of up to 13 years can be imposed. In this case, the District Court of Espoo took note of the decision of the Supreme Court for 2011 and in particular of three factors: how harmful the act has been for the child’s development, i.e. how confidential and close the relationship with the child was, what the method was and the number of abuses. The District Court found that the actions were highly reprehensible. The defendant subjected the girl to sexual intercourse, and the court found that it was the most harmful form of abuse. In addition, the Court found that there were a number of different cases and thus underlined the most serious forms of the act as proven. Despite all these arguments, the sentence was only five years. Mr President! If all the criteria of reprehensibility are fulfilled in the most serious form, then the judgment should be in line with them. Therefore, the lower limit of the scale should be raised if there is such a possibility of reducing the upper limit. I welcome the objectives set out in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u93	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is most welcome. It answers the question that citizens have often had: why can children be treated the way they are treated, and why are the penalties for it so light? For years the Christian Democrats have been trying to bring about a change of law in which these sexual crimes against children would receive the most severe punishment. In a very serious matter of this kind, the child should in principle be considered incapable of defending himself in such a way that it is difficult to see mitigating aspects. Sexual abuse always causes serious harm to a minor, even if its consequences are not apparent until later in adulthood. Therefore, the responsibility for the sexual abuse of a child always lies with an adult and its attempt is a crime. We are very pleased that this citizens' initiative, which has now been presented, will increase the minimum sentence to two years. It is a clear message and I hope that it will lead the adults who are considering such acts to understand at the outset that this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u94	Madam Speaker! In this speech by Mr Laukkanen, it was very clear how these sexual crimes leave victims with permanent and severe trauma. Often these things will only come up after years, perhaps decades. In 2005, the statute of limitations of criminal law was revised to ensure that the right to prosecute is not expired in the case of sexual abuse or aggravated sexual abuse of a child before the victim has reached the age of 28. In that sense, this reform was certainly a step in the right direction, but it was not enough. It is quite clear that, when a victim is a minor, he may not have any means of pursuing his own cause, especially in situations where the abuser is close to the victim. I would have asked when Mr Lindström is here: is it possible to consider these amendments to the statute of limitations, in addition to the fact that this penalty scale is being tightened?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u95	Mr President! This speech by Mr Essayah was extremely important. In my opinion, this would certainly be accompanied by this statute of limitations. It was discussed during the last parliamentary term on the basis of a legislative initiative with Mr Heinonen, signed by 108 MPs, including the Minister himself. Now we would have the opportunity to promote that. In that bill we worked very hard with victim organizations, and they often described this as a murder that will survive. I thought it was quite halting and touchingly photographed. They raised cases in which the perpetrator admitted the act, but he cannot be prosecuted because that aging has taken place and if something is contrary to the public sense of justice. I would like you, Minister, to make a strong move on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u96	Madam President! It is easy to support Mrs Essaya and Mrs Puumala's comments on the fact that it would also be good to review these periods of aging. They are, of course, always challenging in terms of the system, but it must be remembered that such serious crimes are often so traumatic to these victims that these crimes and the symptoms of the victims can in fact only come up at a very late stage. It is very tragic if it is found that this kind of crime has happened, and then it has become obsolete, and therefore the matter is very serious. This is something that needs to be carefully examined now, in terms of how to link it to this, in terms of what is the appropriate and correct penalty scale for this type of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u97	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister because such a crime is very serious and, if I may say so, disgusting, how does the Minister feel about introducing such a four-p penalty, that is to say, a pipe on a log and a blanket. What do you think of that punishment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u98	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is a consensus here that Parliament could certainly agree on an extension of this period of imprisonment, and I hope that the Minister will do something about it. But the question I would like to ask the Minister is that, when the citizens' initiative puts it in concrete terms that the minimum sentence should be 2 years imprisonment for gross sexual exploitation of a child, how much would this cost society, because this is the first question that the government will certainly have to consider. I would then like it to be discussed again, that where we are going to find the money, because I am afraid that in such a good citizens' initiative too, the first thing we are thinking about is where we are going to get the money. I hope, therefore, that this issue will not go unfulfilled, that we do not have the money to do so. We would now have to find goodwill and dig up that money from somewhere in order to tighten the laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u99	Madam President! It is very easy to agree with these previous speeches, which highlighted these periods of aging sexual crimes against children. That examination is important because, as has been said here, these traumas often occur only at an older age, and the pent-up pain and injustice that is there within a person will then emerge forcefully later, and it would therefore be important for these limitation periods to be considered. I would like to ask the Minister in this connection: that initiative refers to the fact that there are many sexual offences against children with minimum penalties, and that this previous good legislation on the review of the criminal records of those working with children, when applying for a job in this area, would also require revision. Do you have any information on how well this section of the law has worked, how many criminal records have been checked, and how many cases have been identified that have to be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u100	Finally, Mr Hakkarainen's reply, and then the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u101	Madam President! I thought of that good presentation by Mr. Oinonen that we have such a system, that if you do, you may have to lose an instrument to the state in the case of drunken driving, or in the case of gun crimes the gun goes to the state, or in financial crimes the consequences are quite severe, where the property goes. Why can these who commit such a crime not, so to speak, be castrated? I'm sure it won't be a new one after that, at least not the crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u102	Mr President! Firstly, an important initiative and a very sensitive issue. Yes, attention is paid to a very important and often emerging issue when some sexual offences are committed against children. After all, the government programme already draws attention to the fact that penalties for crimes are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. According to the programme, this level is being revised in the case of these crimes, and there is also, of course, a project of justice, which is also under investigation. Compared to the other Nordic countries, however, Finland is characterised by this sort of fact that we have quite limited alternatives to these sanctions, and it concerns, for example, the combination of unconditional and conditional imprisonment, which is lacking in the Finnish system altogether. In this context, according to our government's strategic programme, we should also look at strengthening conditional imprisonment with absolute imprisonment, and this must certainly be taken into consideration. There were very specific questions here, and the first was this statute of limitations raised by Mr Puumala and Mr Essayah and many others. I remember very well that I have signed this, and that means that I really do think so, and I am taking this issue forward now — this was a very vigorous and good point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u105	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u106	Madam President! I very much welcome this citizens' initiative in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and I believe that we will also take it up there. With these excellent entries in the Government Programme, on which the Minister stands, I would be happy to see that we can deal with these proposals on this issue, and then we should also deal more broadly with this issue from the point of view of impact assessments and others. I'm sure we're getting somewhere. Oh, yeah, there's two parts here. First of all, this gross form of sexual abuse of a child — raising its minimum penalty to two years. That is justifiable, because we are in charge of court practice. 10 years is the maximum penalty, and it is up to us here to steer the penal procedure by law if we believe that the courts do not apply the law correctly. There is no need for us to intervene in individual cases, but to look at the whole, and here we can make it work. By the way, this minimum of two years is exactly the same as a felony rape in that same chapter of the Penal Code. That it is justified when this form of action is exactly the same. Some have made claims here, which I do not sign, that this would lead to so much increase in unconditional prison sentences. Well, in my opinion it does, but the situation is that in Chapter 20 of the Penal Code but also in Chapter 6 of the Penal Code there are such regulations in general doctrines that if, for example, now it happens that both the victim and the perpetrator are minors and they are even in intercourse, this does not mean that there is always an absolute prison sentence. These criteria for mitigation exist so that there is no point in trying to water this matter down with these factors. Well, then here is this second part: buying sexual services and other such so-called fine crimes, whose minimum penalty is proposed to be increased to 4 months in prison. This justifies the fact that these fines are not reflected in the criminal record. Well, that's the rule, of course, but if you order an extract from a criminal record to find out if a person can work with children, that penalty is already reflected in the criminal record extract. I think this is the case in Article 6 of the Criminal Register Act, and this amendment was made during the last term of government. So that is why this change is pointless, otherwise I am in favour of raising the minimum penalty. To the end of these costs. Money can't be the key. On an annual basis, about 100 people have been convicted of this gross act and between 40 and 50 % of the penalties — that is, about half, you can say roughly — have been sentenced on condition. Well, if we play with the idea that these are absolute, we might have 50 more prisoners a year. It's not a very big cost question. And most of all good: these prisoners would have time to go to the Stop program in Riihimäki Prison, which is a sexual offender treatment program that has enabled some of these prisoners to change their behaviour. So these benefits would be much higher than these costs. I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u107	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is a good example of how citizens' sense of justice contradicts the penalties imposed. In the opinion of the public, sexual offences against children are subject to far too low sentences. Victims are defenseless children or young people who need special protection for our adults. This must be taken better into account in decision-making and in legislating. The mere penalty, as well as the conditional penalty, is far too low in relation to the seriousness of the offence in relation to sexual offences against children. It is said that the opportunity makes a thief, and it is therefore important to minimise the possibility of a cruel crime by hardening penalties. The legislators must always be on the side of the weaker. It's important to the victim that the crime should be punished properly. According to a report by the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare, the number of suspicions in the sexual exploitation of minors has quadrupled in 15 years. The opportunities for abuse have increased as Internet use expands. Contacts with potential victims for sexual exploitation can be made online on chat rooms and other websites, enabling the perpetrators to find the easiest victims. Here, too, we parents have a key role to play. We parents should be interested in what our children or young people do online and agree on the rules for using the Internet and warn against the dangers that lie there. Punishments must serve as a threat and a deterrent to someone who is already planning a crime. Longer penalties also prevent crime from being repeated. The strengthening of the penalty scale for sexual offences against children is a desirable and desirable means of preventing sexual offences against children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u108	Madam President! Very good speeches have been made here and very good comments have been made. As a result of that statute of limitations, I fully agree that murder never grows old, and if one is to meddle with a very small child and have sexual intercourse with him, then it is to him as a spiritual murder. It is easy to agree with this. Minister Lindström left, but at least I understood from his speech that he agreed. Indeed, as far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, the government is currently clarifying the public's sense of justice, and I myself have often spoken about it, as many people in this Chamber have said, that the public's sense of justice is not particularly affected by these sexual crimes against children. I would have asked the Minister — now he is no longer here — how long this study will take, because this 58,000 announcement does seem to me to be quite a lot, that I do not think it is necessary to measure whether the public's sense of justice is in conflict with the penalties. And indeed this two-year increase in these penalty scales is highly desirable. If I am thinking in terms of my own work in court and in the interests of guardianship, then I have not really read more detestable papers than the documents relating to the sexual exploitation of a child. That pain and those events are difficult for a professional to handle, and they come to sleep, and if they become distressing even to the handlers at times, you can only imagine what the hell these people have endured on earth, frankly. Then, here in the explanatory statement to the citizens' initiative, it is stated that these are condemned on a conditional basis, and Mr Tolvanen mentioned precisely these amounts, how many of them are condemned on a conditional basis. Aggravated sexual abuse of a child: I saw in point 1 that we are in sexual contact with a minor, 16 years younger, and in 14 there have been 116 cases, 43 of which have been convicted on probation. I think it is quite a lot, but it is a matter of sexual intercourse. This is Statistics Finland's statistics for the years 2009 to 2014. There were then 86 copies in 2013 and 37 of them were conditional. I find it very difficult to see why they have been conditional when there is, however, a separate section of Chapter 20, Section 6, of the Criminal Code, which is intended for these less restrictive forms of conduct. There is also a relaxation, in Article 7a, then for these, if you are 18 years old, even if you are a man, and then there is a 15-year-old girl and they have a relationship, so there is a restriction on the fact that this does not apply to these matters. Yes, this really is in order. I would like to add to that the other crimes involving images of sexual assault and the presentation of these: When there's this penalty, it's pretty mild. If you're in Facebook groups like this and you're handling those pictures anyway, then when the punishment always has to go up according to the reprehensibility of the act, then yes, I think the fine is a pretty mild penalty for that, because you're also helping child pornography. This is a very welcome proposal and we have this draft law on this too. Let us hope that this will be brought into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u109	Madam President! The tripartite doctrine of power requires that Parliament does not interfere with the functioning of independent courts. However, the legislator must define the minimum level of punishment that will then be observed in the kingdom. This is a good citizens' initiative at hand. The Finns have also taken a similar initiative in law. The conditional prison sentence for these gross crimes against children is simply inadequate. Conditional imprisonment does not always seem like punishment at all. A stronger deterrent effect of punishment is needed, but also a fair penalty for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. As a society, we must take an absolute line. We cannot accept crimes against children. We cannot accept that paedophiles work with children and we cannot accept that sexual crimes are too minor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u110	Madam President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative for this good initiative. It is proposed here that the minimum sentence for aggravated sexual abuse of a child should be increased to 2 years in prison, and in practice this would mean that conditional sentences for such crimes will be dropped and imprisonment will always be absolute. In addition, this would change the purchase of sexual services from young people by increasing the minimum penalty for offences to 4 months in prison so that at least a record of each sexual offence against a child is recorded in the criminal record of the offender. The Institute for Legal Studies published a comprehensive study on the penalties for sexual abuse against children in 2008. According to the results, the number of convictions for sexual abuse of a child has increased fivefold in the 15 years preceding the survey. People are now more aware, and the police are also aware of more and more abuse crimes every year, which is a good thing. The change in the number of cases is due to the increased efficiency of the regulatory control and the increased risk of capture. More attention has been paid to the identification of abuse, particularly in the 21st century, and the overall control of crime has thus become more severe. The proportion of the fine has fallen and the number of years of imprisonment sentenced has increased sevenfold. After the 99 reform of the law, the unconditional prison sentences for all sexual abuse against children have increased by about seven months. The results of the research suggest that society’s attitude towards the protection of children against sexual abuse and the reprehensibility of such crimes have both been strained over the last decades. Still, every case is too much. I therefore welcome the fact that this – and I am also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs – is being properly dealt with at committee meetings. I would also like to raise two other points. Mr Tolvanen also raised these stop programmes. In addition to sanctions, effective prevention of re-offence is through various treatment programmes during prison times, and these should continue to be addressed. The second is to support victims of crime. Minister Huovinen passed a new Act on Social Welfare in Parliament last year, which obliges municipalities to provide the necessary social services for victims of crime, including support for the need for support in connection with intimate and domestic violence and other forms of violence and abuse. In addition, a total of 14 laws were amended to prevent offences against children in this period to facilitate access to information by the authorities in a situation where, for example, the school or day-care centre staff have reason to suspect the offence committed against the child. However, there is an even greater need for exchange of information and cooperation between authorities; these need to be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u111	Madam President! We are dealing with the tightening up of the penalty scale for sexual crimes against children and the citizens' initiative in this regard. Almost 25 years of police work and all kinds of crime, I can say that sexual crimes against children are the most serious and serious crimes a person can face as a victim. That is why it is very important that this issue is now on the table. This citizens' initiative proposes that the minimum penalty for gross sexual exploitation be increased to 2 years, and that would mean that the sentence could no longer be imposed conditionally and would lead to that unconditional prison sentence, and I think that is a good thing. It reflects the general morality and sense of justice that the people have, and already during the last parliamentary term such a left-wing liberal criminal policy, which we have been ruling for too long, was brought about by a turnaround and already during the last parliamentary term changes were made to sexual crimes and also to other crimes. It is now a good thing that this matter continues and, in a way, the legislator must feel the general sense of justice and morals of the people and the perception that is there. I would like to thank these women in the bay, Pia Katajala, Susanna Norway and Marika Sipilä, for putting this citizens' initiative in motion and collecting the 58,000 names and, with this initiative, are now sending a very strong message to Parliament as to the direction in which the penalties for sexual crimes against children should be taken. As Mr Tolvanen, the chairman of the Legal Committee, said, I believe and trust that this citizens' initiative will be dealt with very carefully and seriously in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u112	Madam President! The citizens' initiative is very good and I fully support it. As a police officer, I have seen a lot of bad things that no one should see, like these colleagues in this Chamber. The current government programme tightens the penalties for sexual offences, but preventative action must not be forgotten. Less attention is often given to what happens when the sentence is executed and the paedophile is released in full service. There are many who continue to commit sexual crimes because prison time may even increase the risk of sexual offences being repeated. The penalties for paedophiles are being extended all the time — and this must be the case — but it is not enough simply to lock the offender in prison. We must have the courage to take decisions to reduce paedophilia and protect children. A pedophile does not realize that he is doing anything wrong. He's a benefactor to a child. He has no understanding of the consequences of his actions or of the suffering of a little boy or girl. A pedophile hurts a child in the worst way possible. Why are we still allowing this year after year? We should seriously consider whose human rights and dignity we want to defend. I believe that chemical castration by medication should be compulsory for pedophiles. The necessity of castration would reduce the number of young girls and boys who are victims of sexual crimes. In the countries where castration is used, the experience has been good. It's up to us adults to protect our children. This is also required by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article 34 thereof. A child hurt by a pedophile is like a damaged tree trout. It'll survive, but it'll be damaged for life. There is good reason to ask whether such pedophiles causing human suffering should be overstepped or whether forced treatment, or the obligation to undergo chemical castration, is the right solution for them. Of course, other measures are needed not only for castration but also for many. It is clear that if there was a treatment unit for pedophiles, it would be easier for them to talk about the disease and fewer crimes and fewer victims. However, it is likely that a pedophile will not voluntarily seek treatment because he does not feel sick. For the victim of the crime, castration of the perpetrator is of little importance. The justice of the punishment in relation to the act, on the other hand, is of great importance. The victim must be given justice in court. Punishments for crimes must be fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. Victims should also be guaranteed an unbroken treatment chain. Each municipality must be prepared to support the victim, regardless of the type of sexual offence that has been committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u113	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is very good and worthy of support. In 2011, these penalties were tightened up, and I will give you an example of its consequences. In 2012, two Somali men raped a 15-year-old girl from a confirmation ceremony. Sentence: conditional punishment. I brought it out — I was about to get a conviction myself. Thus, even though punishments were hardened, the practice was that criminals began to be protected as a result. Now that there is an increase in immigration, it has become a real wave, and it has been studied that in Somalis, among other things, 17 times the number of rapes against the Finns in Finland, I would take this as a specific warning to these young people that it is now dangerous to move there. I mean, civic education. In other words, if this number is 17 times higher than that of the Finns in Finland, it is a shocking figure. Every day we get to read in the papers about mass rapes and so on. They weren't there before. I would suggest, as the previous speaker said there, castration. It's not expensive. It doesn't cost $70,000 a year. If you give a sentence of five years, it's a pretty expensive drop for society. There will be no renewals as a result of the castration. I'm sure that's the end of it. And yet, if we take it the way that this is a pretty shameful thing to do: a picture in the paper, it's a good one too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u114	Madam President! A citizens' initiative is very important and worthy of support in the debate on referrals. We are defending children and young people, those who may not yet be able to assert their rights and defend themselves against the threat of a parent and a stronger one. I have received dozens of calls and e-mails calling on Parliament to intensify the convictions of those responsible for sexual offences against young people and sexual offences in general. The messengers have not necessarily understood that judgments are not handed out in parliament but in courts. Parliament shall only provide the court with work equipment and a penalty scale for the purpose of measuring the penalty. The public opinion, the much maligned public sense of justice, is therefore clearly in favour of tougher penalties. Under his desk, a professor may wonder about the definition of a general sense of justice and how it is defined at all. In my opinion and in my sense of justice, the general sense of justice is that the public, by force, is expressing an opinion on a matter. If the bill is signed by nearly 60,000 citizens, whose opinion has greater weight, by these signatories or by an individual who finds that he does not feel that a public sense of justice can be properly defined? According to the threefold doctrine of power, it is not appropriate for a representative of parliament who makes laws to take a stand on the punishment of an individual act. Parliament will draw up laws, and the judiciary will apply them. This line must also be seen as crystal clear in the future. So let us leave it to the courts to measure the penalties. When the opinion of the public is in favour of tougher penalties, Parliament has the opportunity to change the law and increase the penalty rates so that the act can no longer be sentenced to a conditional prison sentence. In this way the requirement of a general sense of justice will be fulfilled. Madam President! No one should be physically or psychologically abused. Sexual violence is cruel because it offends the victim in both ways. It is particularly cruel when violence is directed against a helpless child. Such an act must be punished in such a way as to have not only generality but also special protection. That is why conditional punishment for these acts is no longer enough. Madam President! I also welcome the other legislative changes mentioned in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u115	Mr President! It's hard to come up with a more repulsive crime than sexual violence against a child. How is it possible that previous governments have not been able to raise these judgments even to a reasonable level? If the child’s rapist receives a conditional or short unconditional sentence, it is a clear message to the victim and his family that this crime was not so serious. Nor is it right that a first-timer can always be every three years. Fortunately, we now have a government that is going to take up this flagrant and shameful inadequacy. In the state of justice, the victim and the victim's family should get justice. This online register of paedophiles used in the United States is also something that I think should be introduced here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u116	Madam President! This excellent citizens' initiative shows that citizens' initiatives are needed and that tradition is good and has its place in society. It has also been great to hear these debates and speeches here, how united Parliament is behind this citizens' initiative. And while it is still possible to read through the press that the chairmen of the parliamentary groups are also positive about this, then this will have a good chance of going through. It is wonderful that Mr Tolvanen, the chairman of the Legal Committee, is still here and takes this message to the Legal Committee. It is clear that there is a need for tougher penalties for sexual offences, and it was great that Minister Lindström was here. As he listened to his words, it became calm that this matter would be carried forward and the penalties would be hardened. I also agree with Mr Tolvanen that money cannot be solved here, but that the criminal who needs a conviction must then receive that judgment and cannot be prevented by any budgetary balancing. This chemical castration presented by the Angle: I went to the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, and he said that there was something. That, in my opinion, should be investigated, because these criminals tend to repeat their crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u117	Madam President! We are dealing with an extremely important citizens' initiative, and the sexual exploitation of a child — gross or mild, whatever the case — is always reprehensible. In this explanatory statement to the citizens' initiative, I can quote: 'Sex crimes against children are serious violations of the child's fundamental and human rights. For a long time, Finland has committed itself to a certain form of petty criminal policy, which means that many punishments are inadequate and do not correspond to the ordinary citizen's sense of justice." Today, in this Chamber, we have heard the judgments expressed by the representatives, which are indeed questionable, and I wonder about the short lengths of their sentences and indeed these probationary sentences, because if a serious offence is committed, should it not result in imprisonment, an absolute one? Somehow it seems inconceivable that when, on the penalty scale, we have the opportunity to sentence, for example, ten years of imprisonment, to an absolute one, so why not use it in convictions, even though it has actually been mentioned here that these cruelest practices are being carried out. I am really concerned about how we in our society can guarantee the status of the victim, the future, life, the continuity of life, health. The municipalities are sick, we have a lack of resources in the social and health sectors. How do we respond to the need for these people, these young children, to be saved to life? As has been said here, this is a murder in which you live, but in what way you live, that is the second question that we, as decision-makers and legislators, must also answer. Representatives Niikko, Elo, the Sea and many others here have made very important points, and it is easy to agree with them. I hope that this message will also be passed on from this Chamber to the courts, even though now the courts are independent and we may not be able to dictate to them what kind of sentences they should pass. But surely that message has left us, a common one, that the convictions are too mild in relation to the kind of gross crimes committed by individuals. Too often, the victim is deceived, abused by a loved one. It is an extremely heavy burden to bear throughout life, if your father, brother, a relative has been the one who has done it, and this adds to the condemnation of the act in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u118	Madam President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for these good lunches. They started from the very point of view of prevention to the point of condemnation, and I must say that almost all of these are certainly feasible. Some were quite brisk performances so that they might have to be omitted. But it's good to hear these. After all, there has already been such a change in this last period that, when the offender has previously been at the heart of the crime, last season the victim of the crime was raised to the centre of the crime in the Government Programme. His rights were improved in a number of ways last season. Now this line continues, and also the rights of the victim are becoming, for example, the funding of Victim Support Finland through such soft means more. But there are many good ways in the government programme to prevent crime. As in this citizens' initiative, there is also an increase in the level of penalties in the government programme, specifically the minimum penalties, which will have an overall impact on the level of penalties. In my previous job as a police officer, I was in charge of a unit that had about 150 sexual crimes per year. Quite a large number of the victims were children, so that I have seen this life sentence that will come to these victims. Against this background, I also noticed, as also according to studies, that the risk of a sexual offender doing this is really, really great, much greater than many others. And now, no matter what they say, while he's in prison, if he's in prison a little longer now, the victims are safe, because in the police, we had a number of cases in which, when the person was released, he immediately continued this criminal activity of using either boys or girls sexually. Society must not be so toothless that it would not prevent such things — especially since nowadays these sexual offences are so short, in fact so short, when they are still subject to completely absurd first-time regulations that this year's Stop program, the one-year program, in Riihimäki Prison, cannot be executed because the sentence is so short. It has been said that the Stop programme is capable of changing the behaviour of many criminals. As I have said many times, I welcome this citizens' initiative. There are some members of the Committee on Legal Affairs here, and I have heard the promise from everyone that this will receive a good and broad and proper reading. I sincerely hope that, when we have a government proposal coming up on a similar issue, it will come quickly, so that we can carry out comprehensive impact assessments, as is always the case with good legislation. In future, I will be in contact with the Minister for Justice, Mr Lindström, for us to be able to speed up this matter. - Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u119	Madam President! Indeed, we should remember this tripartite doctrine of power, which was referred to here, that is to say, the parliament will legislate and then the courts will impose the penalties according to the scale here given and estimated to be appropriate for each crime. This citizens' initiative is now proposing that the minimum penalty for serious sexual crimes against children be increased, while, of course, at the same time affecting the degree of punishment for these crimes. There is now a need for careful consideration of this initiative. The role of society is to protect its members from crime and criminals — and the most important task is to protect the most vulnerable, children, the weaker who are unable to protect themselves. That is why this issue is still particularly important. Now that the Committee on Legal Affairs has this initiative before us, and this is a broader discussion of sexual crimes against children and what could be done other than, for example, this increase in the minimum penalty for the citizens' initiative, whether there are any other measures that we could still take in this connection, I would like to take some further thought into this and consider that law, once adopted in the United States, called Lex Megan, which stipulates that the victim of a sexual offence should be made aware of the moment when the convicted person then gets out of prison. Perhaps these sexual crimes against children in particular could be considered. As Mr Tolvanen said, in these sexual crimes, the rate of renewal is particularly high, and it is a shock for many people to see, even after a very short period of time, that this criminal has been convicted of serving punishment, there in the local community, in the street, in the neighborhood, that the criminal is free. Faced with this situation and dealing with it, it could be easier for the victim of the crime to be informed of the fact that the offender has served his sentence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u120	Madam President! I will make it easier for Mr Jokinen to feel that there is already a government proposal that when a criminal is released, especially the perpetrator of a serious crime, the victim of the crime will be informed of this. It is part of the package where the services of the victim of crime are improved anyway. We are moving in the right direction, and many good ideas still exist for each of us, and hopefully they will be implemented during this reign. But this is under control right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u121	Madam President! Just for a moment about the conditional sentence: I have had one, and it has no effect on practical life. And there is no way that citizens' sense of justice about this sort of thing can accept that is done with this kind of crime, what is now, and they can get out of them conditionally. For me personally, it is a greater punishment — I have experience of it — that if you receive a large fine it will have to pay. Conditional is nothing. It's a note like this, and that's it. It doesn't affect your normal life. And then about this castration: Yes, this is a very simple system. Certainly there will not be another crime, and it will be in practice in many countries. Why can't we do that here in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u122	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u123	Madam President! This government proposal deals with changes in the lower and upper limits of real estate taxation. It is a matter of its own accord, but the committee's report contains an important issue which I think, at least in my opinion, must also be speeded up. In fact, at the beginning of 2012, the Ministry of Finance has launched a development project to explain in a broad sense the need for reform in the area of real estate taxation. Taxation must always be fair and must not contain so-called discriminatory elements. When the property is taxed, the tax must be proportional to the real value of the property. If this is not the case, taxation will easily become discriminatory. The formation of the tax value on which the property tax is based should be re-evaluated from time to time, as, as the structures of society change, property values also change with it. For example, the value of a commercial or office property is assessed by the tax authority on the basis of the acquisition value rather than the price obtained from it in the right trade. Nor will the location be taken into account in the assessment of the building. In certain areas of Finland, the determination of the value of taxation leads to a situation where the fair value of an establishment property is lower than the annual property tax. In this case, the real estate tax represents the so-called reverse progression, i.e. the less business or office property you own, the more tax you have to pay. In practice, there is no change to the estimates made by the tax authorities, as the tax authorities and administrative rights have rejected all requirements. The explanatory statement of the texts uses the concept of fair value, but it refers to a value defined by the authorities, which may be very far from the actual fair value. How fair can it be if the property complex changes ownership by EUR 1 million but the tax authority defines the value of EUR 10 million? Increases in the lower and upper limits of the property tax are even de minimis if the valuation of the tax value differs significantly from the real value of the property. Of course, municipalities are grateful for the tax revenue they receive, but current practice leads to a difference in real value property tax within Finland of up to thousands of per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u124	Madam President! The proposal for an increase in the property tax means an increase in the lower and upper limits of the property tax, and it will, of course, guide the collection of the tax in the municipalities. This proposal relates to the principle that there is a desire to change the tax focus more from labour to other taxes, and therefore property taxation has been changed in recent years. Since 2009, the amount of real estate tax has risen by almost 70% until today, and this year the property tax will be collected by around EUR 1.6 billion. In this context, I would now like to point out that this is linked to the principle that there is a desire to shift the focus of taxation from labour to other taxes, but there should then also be movement on the labour tax side. Since real estate taxation has already been raised by nearly 70% since 2009, the other half of it should move. Real estate tax is a property tax and it does not take into account in any way the owner's ability to pay taxes, for example, and in that sense it is not entirely without problems. As Mr Eestilä pointed out in his own speech, there are unsustainable situations where the real sales value of the property is lower than the annual property tax on it. In other words, solutions must be found to these situations which occur in different parts of the country — the values of buildings and their operating values — and it is therefore a good thing that the real estate tax reform project is moving forward, and hopefully that project will help to find solutions to these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u125	Mr President! The proposed changes in property taxation are intended to increase the share of real estate tax in municipal tax revenues, which, on the other hand, will reduce the pressure on income tax accordingly, as Mr Jokinen has just pointed out. According to the Government's proposal, the lower limit of the general property tax rate is to be increased to 0.86 per cent and the lower rate of taxation of permanent residential buildings to 0.39 per cent, respectively, from the date on which the tax is to be delivered in 2017. As a result of these increases, 60 municipalities will have to increase the general rate of taxation for permanent residential buildings in 25 municipalities. Well, in principle, this increase in the thresholds can be regarded as problematic to a certain extent, for example in terms of municipal self-government and self-determination, and the expert hearings of the Committee on Finance and Finance also drew attention to this issue. However, on the one hand, the property tax is a fiscally efficient and objective form of taxation and, on the other hand, does not distort the demand for and supply of labour, so it is well founded to increase the property tax instead of the municipal tax. However, I would remind you that the municipalities will continue to have a great responsibility to ensure that both taxes do not increase simultaneously and, in particular, unduly. Mr President! There is a serious shortage of housing, especially in growth centres, and the situation has not at least made things any easier in recent years. With this in mind and in order to improve the efficiency of land use, the tax ceiling for an unconstructed building site will rise by 1 percentage point to 4% next year, according to the Government's proposal. I consider this to be a good development in terms of access to housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u126	Madam President! I would like to add to my first speech that, since we and the government are going to increase our entrepreneurship and work in Finland, this excessively high tax value on a property, especially in remote localities, will mean that it will not be possible, in industrial policy, to do what can naturally be done there. Let us take the example that there is already a suitable property that is of low value but whose tax value may be high at its fair value: it prevents, for example, the establishment or sale of a base intended in a way to be picked by berries. That is why, in the reform, we must look at the fact that the taxation of its assets will then be reasonable in view of its regional location, because now my own view is that the location of the land can be dealt with differently in regional terms at the moment in terms of property taxation, but certain criteria for construction and its building, which will inevitably lead to inequalities between the different localities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u127	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u128	Madam President! Child allowance is a so-called universal benefit paid for all children regardless of their parents ’ wealth. However, this principle does not apply to families most in need, since the child allowance is deducted from the family's income support. Child poverty has increased significantly over the last 20 years. According to Statistics Finland, in the 1990s the lower income rate of families with children was less than 6 per cent, having been 10.9 per cent in 2013. It is notable that child poverty is closely linked to the low income of working parents, as 64 per cent of children with low incomes belonged to the economy of the employed and 17 per cent to the unemployed economy. In recent years, the share of children living with working parents grew from low incomes and that of unemployed parents decreased. The risk of poverty among children is particularly high in families with single parents and in families with a high number of children. The number of households receiving income support has been growing in recent years, and a large proportion of those who lose child benefit are single-parent families. Madam President! The Child Ombudsman has estimated that poverty in vulnerable families will deepen in the coming years. His assessment is based on the government's proposals for indexing benefits and the weakening of early childhood education services. Compared to the 1990s, the real value of child supplements had collapsed even before the previous government decided to cut child supplements. The current government does not intervene in any way in this development, quite the contrary. The level of child supplements in relation to the increase in cost of living will be further reduced as the government renounces index increases in child supplements. In addition, the government will vaccinate families with children by, for example, increasing day care fees, giving up subjective day care rights and reducing unemployment benefit. So the government is forcing more and more families to apply for income support. The whole family is affected by a weak financial situation. Concerns about making ends meet with parents, and children often worry about the family situation, even though parents want to protect children from anxiety. The family’s income problems reduce children’s opportunities to participate and engage in activities and increase the risk of mental health problems. From the recession of the 1990s, we learned that children cannot be saved. What is worrying is that exclusion is passed on from one generation to the next. Madam President! It is incomprehensible that families most in need do not receive child benefit. Getting things right now is more timely than ever, because the government is cutting the families with children severely. We urgently need means to help families in a fragile economic situation, and one way is to change the legislation so that child supplements are not taken into account in the amount of income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-15-ps-51.u129	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 16 October 2015.
