ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Representative Elsi Katainen requests exemption from membership of the Governing Board of Yleisradio, representative Mats Nylund from membership of the Finance Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, as well as Joakim Strand from membership of the Finance Committee. The Council of Presidents shall support such requests.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you that the maximum length of questions and answers is 1 minute, so that as many questions as possible can be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u3	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u4	Mr President! The devastating terrorist attacks in Paris last Friday killed over a hundred people. The attacks of the Daesh terrorists in the heart of Europe left a climate of threat and fear in the minds of the people. In this context, I would like to express my regret to the families of the victims. The French President has recently stated that the country is at war and has proposed the introduction of a European solidarity clause. Prime Minister, Finnish law does not currently allow the Defence Forces to participate in the implementation of this solidarity clause. My question is: How do you assess the importance of the solidarity clause for Finland and for Europe as a whole, and how will this reform of the Defence Forces legislation be taken into account? Is it in this context that we are going to use this parliamentary monitoring group, which has just been set up, to prepare for careful preparation and to obtain the broad support of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u5	Mr President! These acts of terrorism were, of course, an attack not only on France but also on Europe as a whole, and these events shocked the whole of the European Community. The European Community is a security community. In that sense, the use of this mutual assistance clause for the first time is of great political importance. As regards how it will affect us here in Finland, Finland immediately announced that we are ready to help France by all means possible, by all means available. With regard to this preparation of legislation on the provision and reception of international assistance, the work of the working group is under way. The working group had to finalise its report by the end of May, i.e. by the end of May next year. Now it has been speeded up in such a way that we can finish it in January and then the normal legislative process could start.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u6	Madam President! In addition to the Prime Minister, I could add that the preparation of this legislation on the provision and reception of international aid is led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's a separate law. However, in the field of defence management, regulation will also be complemented, for example, with regard to powers, the use of force and the status of personnel in several national defence laws. The Ministry of Defence is currently preparing a government proposal to be submitted at the same time as this separate law prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Department of Defense will be ready to present its bill by March.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u7	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u8	Mr President! To combat new acts of violence, there is a need for European and global cooperation around a wide range of issues at several levels of cooperation. Violence will not go away unless it is influenced by international cooperation. We need to be able to have a stronger influence on the root causes from which violent terrorism is escalating and which lead millions of people to seek refuge around the world. Managing the situation creates security in a changing and confusing environment for people's minds. In this context, I would like to thank Minister Orpo in particular for his solid, humane and competent work in the current challenging situation. Prime Minister, the United Nations has and must play an important role in resolving crises. My question is: does the government have plans or measures in place to help Finland contribute to strengthening the UN's capacity to respond to existing crises and anticipate the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u9	Mr President! Finland is very active in the UN and also in the fight against root causes of the flow of refugees. We have just taken joint decisions in the European Community, for example, on the participation of African countries in the Trust Fund. Finland has also made national decisions to improve conditions in those camps and to better manage this flow of refugees. The ideal situation would be for us to be able to deal with these issues at the source of the root causes of the crises and then control the UN refugee quota, for example, by increasing the number of refugees in Finland. Now they're the smugglers' business, and that's how we should get a stop to it. The UN is definitely the key to resolving this crisis and addressing root causes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u10	Madam President! Finland is indeed an active UN actor. Not only in the UN, but we are constantly in contact with permanent members of the Security Council who have a lot of influence. That is why it is essential to support the UNCHR specifically to get hot spots, trust funds, in other words, these sort of organizing centres in a modern sense and then also this funding in order, because that is the only way. After all, the EU has made good decisions in itself on these, as it were, burden-sharing. 160,000 people have decided to share the burden. Finland and Sweden have taken a few tens, and nothing else has been achieved. We have some good decisions internationally, but for one reason or another the major countries have not put them into action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u11	Mr President! The 2012 security policy report reviewed this issue of receiving and giving assistance in the light of the Treaties and the legislative work that is now being completed was launched. I think it is important that this legislative work be carried out until the end in such a way as to involve the whole of Parliament, perhaps through this parliamentary monitoring group, in this preparatory work. But there was another aspect of this report, and it was that attention was paid to the fact that these capacities must be adequately resourced. And now that decisions and proposals have been made which represent a major cut in both crisis management preparedness and development cooperation — just the tools that are also necessary to combat such a terrorist threat — does the government have the capacity to re-evaluate these solutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u12	Madam President! The representative of the Court of Justice knows this background very well. When this clause was made in time and then later, it was thought that, for example, Finland and Sweden, when they are non-military countries, the content of such an aid clause does not mean that the basic defence solution has to be changed. And another thing that the representative of the Court of Justice said: it is important that these problems are specifically resourced. After all, our crisis management appropriations are somewhat similar to unemployment appropriations and others, that they are difficult to anticipate. They can be treated with additional budgets. And then, of course, unfortunately, when the cuts have affected everything, we must also have the ability to prioritise the resources we have, for example on these pain points mentioned by the representative of the Judge-in-Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u13	Mr President! These tragic events in Paris have awakened us to the fact that we have significant shortcomings in our ability to act in such crisis situations. One is that our online intelligence legislation is not in the condition in which it should be, in order to be able to monitor, among other things, terrorist communications and in that way to obtain advance information on what is going on there. The second is that we are also unable to take military action in this security system, among other things, in which Finnish soldiers could take part in certain tasks. Sweden has such legislation, the other Nordic countries have legislation on both these issues and we do not. What measures does the government intend to take to remedy these serious shortcomings in Finnish legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u14	Mr President! Representative Salolainen drew attention to an important issue, namely the reform of intelligence legislation. The Government has launched a legislative reform project and a parliamentary working group is being set up in Parliament by parliamentary groups. It is very important here to work closely with Parliament in a parliamentary capacity so that we can get through this very important national law project as quickly as possible, even on a timely basis. It calls for us to be able to combine the measures required for national security and to ensure the fundamental rights of citizens, the protection of individuals and the protection of the message. This is difficult, but we should be able to do it together. It is now an absolutely essential element for national security.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u15	Madam President! A common world can never be built without cooperation, dialogue and understanding. Many nations need help in this work so that people have hope and faith in the future rather than lack of vision. Of course, the UN organisations play a very central role in this, and this is, of course, very ill-suited to the fact that the government has decided, among other things, to cut development funds. On the trip to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we were able to visit a large number of UN actors and discuss the role of the UN now in all these burning crises. There was also the question of how capable the UN Security Council is today to take decisions on the Syrian crisis, for example, because we cannot think that we are only helping people in neighbouring areas. We should also be able to resolve these crises where they occur. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: how do you see the role of the Security Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u16	Madam President! This is a very fundamental issue. Many countries have a great desire to reform the UN system, especially with regard to permanent members of the Security Council, but they do not themselves, of course, want to share this power, and this is problematic. But when you raised this issue of Syria, hardly three months ago would anyone have thought that Russia and the USA were at the same negotiating table, hardly a month ago it was thought that Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey, could all be at the same negotiating table. This was actually the case in Vienna. And this whole tragedy has been so great that only now does the international community seem to wake up. That is, if what was said there in Vienna, that is, constitutional reform and, in a way, this kind of transitional administration would be achieved and all that was said would be quite advanced. There is no agreement on Al-Assad's status, But I think it's just one card, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u19	Mr President! In many ways, the terrorist attacks in Paris were a blow to the way of life and to the free society of all of us. It could have been any one of us, any of us Finns, when we were talking about having a party with football, music or a restaurant night. In that sense, it is important in this response to stress that we all stand up for a free and open society here together. Terrorists want to bring groups of people together in the Western, free world. It feeds the growth base that they seek for themselves, and it must not be given. Here I would like to thank the President of the Republic and the whole government for their good statements on this issue. But, Mr President, apart from what we are doing here within the West and among ourselves in democracies to resolve the situation — where new means are certainly needed and discussed — what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just said about the situation in Syria is key. President Ahtisaari has also said that: In Syria, there would be opportunities to move forward now in the peace negotiations, and I would like to ask Minister Soin again: how do you see the balance in how Finland can help to achieve peace in Syria? What is the balance of continuing bombings, perhaps strengthening,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u20	Madam President! This is in itself a great achievement that a situation has arisen between countries that have been very poorly interdependent, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia, on a very short time-frame, that is to say, that we are at the same negotiating table. That is an extremely good and important issue. Finland can play its part with the help of the UN and the EU. There are many actors in the EU in large countries that are also well connected to this. And just as Mr Niinistö said, the solution to the whole refugee problem, the war problem, is central to Syria and Iraq. If peace is achieved and a transition period and administration is made there, not only will it derail the threat of war in a significant way — perhaps with everyone else — it will not be done with ISIS — then it will also facilitate this refugee crisis. The Finnish Government will be fully involved in this, and I would also like to thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u21	Mr President! The Left condemns all acts of terrorism and France must be helped by all the means allowed by law. Finland's military assistance will then not be possible, nor should it be. This aid clause is a bilateral negotiation, not a machine, as Mr Soini rightly said. But the question is: is it possible for Finland to be active, to find out how the Isis and Al-Qaida organisations started, who has supported them, armed them and funded them, and to find out who buys the oil stolen by Isis, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u22	Madam President! These are the results of longer-term development, these radical organisations. There is a certain political background, a certain failure on the part of the governments. Probably one big mistake in Iraq was that all the professionals in the regime of that time were put aside, in other words, all the members of the Ba'ath Party were taken away. Then there was an administrative and political vacuum, and nobody really knew how to handle things. It is important not to do this for Syria. Al-Assad is a war criminal. He can't stay. He shouldn't stay. Well, then, of course, there is this financing of Isis and everything else. It's a really good question who's buying that blood oil and who's in on it. I don't have the answer to that question, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u23	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Mustajärvi also referred to this assistance. So for the military, we have no law, but I would like to say that on the civilian side, on the police, on the border, on the rescue side, we have the opportunity to offer assistance to France. Civilian crisis management is also a tool that we can use. We actually have 115 men and women in civilian crisis management missions in these regions, in these countries of origin and in transit countries. We are currently preparing, as far as France's request for assistance is concerned, the list of possibilities we have here on the civilian side, how we could be involved in this common fight, the European system, show solidarity with France and be strongly involved in this collective fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u24	Mr President! Indeed, the extremely shocking course of events, and I must add my thanks to the government. The Prime Minister and the whole government have done this very well for Finland. I'd like to return to this security box. After all, we had a lot of researchers in Finland who used to say that these are of no importance and these are a little unnecessary talking. Well, it has now proved that they have been activated by France, and all the Member States seem to be positive and feel a sense of solidarity, are ready to help. This is a big deal for Finland too. The Union now seems to be intensifying its cooperation in this area and will, of course, also have an impact on Finland. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: how do you see closer cooperation in this area, the introduction of security guarantees, the interests of Finland and the status of Finland? Do you think this is a good development?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u25	Madam President! It is now very useful that, in a way, through this request for assistance, we actually get to look at and usefully take a European Union-wide view of what this agreed at the time really means in practice, because such a request has never been made before. For example, this obligation of assistance 42.7 is perhaps the least expected, but it came from there and not from, for example, NATO Article or this 222. I think it is a good thing that now that the specific request comes, it will be handled on the one hand and then also between the various EU countries to find out what such a request means in practice. And in that sense this is
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u26	Next question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u27	Mr President! My week began with good news when I heard that the government withdrew its intention to abolish the housing allowance for pensioners. The abolition of housing allowance for pensioners would have led to tens of thousands of Finnish, already low-income pensioners falling below the poverty line, which was evident when the Green Parliamentary Group asked Parliament's Information Service for a calculation of how the various measures planned by the government are targeted specifically at pensioners, many of whom, as I said, are low-income. Mr President! A week of children’s rights is now celebrated, and many organisations have expressed concern about how many government proposals, savings will increase child poverty and child inequality. With reference to the above, I would like to ask whether the government is now going to make a calculation and an impact assessment of how its various legislative proposals and savings are directed specifically at children, families with children, the weakest in society, and how you are going to increase the poverty of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u28	Mr President! The Government has prepared its own draft budget on the basis of the Government Programme, for which an assessment has been made of how the different decisions are targeted. When we talk about social security, when we talk about the euro that is allocated from the state budget as transfers to the various population groups, we talk about how value choices are made in these matters. Everyone now has to take care of their own contributions and try to do — as is now the case here with the examples of the solutions that have been taken — these decisions so that the poorest are able to cope. Most recently today, the government has put forward a proposal that income support does not fall, even though the indices are negative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u29	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u30	Mr President! More than 100,000 Finnish children live in a low-income household, and too many children actually live in poverty, which increases the risk of exclusion and increases the risk that, as an adult, depression, loss of working capacity and so on. So child poverty has far - reaching and very serious consequences. We have noted that the right of children to early childhood education is an important way to prevent the risk of exclusion, to keep all children involved and to compensate for differences in well-being between children. However, the government is now restricting the right to child care against the recommendations of experts. Fortunately, a number of cities are now taking decisions in a different direction. For example, Helsinki and Tampere are not going to limit children's right to day care precisely because it has a significant impact on reducing the risk of exclusion. Is the government taking on the concerns of experts
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u31	Madam President! One important thing the government is trying to take care of is that municipalities have the resources and opportunities to provide the services needed by families with children, for example. Next year's draft budget does not have any cuts in the share of state resources, which will enable municipalities to exercise their own discretion if the local authorities see such situations as they do. The second part, in relation to the first question raised by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, is that there are no child supplements to be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u32	Madam President! Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto raised a very important issue. This is very descriptive of the government's proposals that many have been withdrawn because the impact assessment has not been carried out. Now, with regard to this subjective right to early childhood education — now that the municipalities are preparing their budgets and plans for the next few years — we have at least heard from Helsinki, Tampere, Kotka and Hämeenlinna that municipal decision-makers are not going to take
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u33	Mr President! Just as Mr Ruhula said earlier, it is a great thing that municipalities can make these priorities in their own budgets and invest more in families with children than the law requires. It is a great thing and shows child-friendliness in our municipalities. As regards this limitation of the right to early childhood education and the bill which is part of this difficult economic situation and the balancing of the economy, which is also very difficult for us board members to implement, I would like to say that every child will continue to have the right to 20 hours of high-quality, pedagogically even stronger early childhood education, even in the future. I think it is very important that it is included in this bill and that the most vulnerable families, especially children, have been taken into account by the fact that, if it is in the interests of the child’s growth, development and child’s interests, the right to early education is also greater than that for these children 20 hours. And this has been an attempt to ensure that,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u34	Mr President! Of course, transfers are important, but yes, at least as important is the services of families with children. I am very pleased that home services for families with children, which were almost completely cut during the recession of the 1990s, have now been restored to families with children and now this service is being strengthened. Many studies have shown that it is home services for families with children that prevent fatigue, strengthen parenthood, and are also preventing custody. In other words, it is also worth noting what is being done in this government's programme. Service systems will also be streamlined and customers, the customer perspective, will be better taken into account. That is also a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u35	Mr President! Here, in fact, I would like to highlight this one of the government's most important projects, namely this programme of family policy change, which is now based on the assumption that this fragmented system will at last be made smooth and that it will finally be made for children, young people and families so that everyone who needs help, support will receive it in sufficient time and with sufficient strength. Of course, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto raised a very important issue, namely the poverty of this family with children. I am sure we are all equally concerned about it, but it is not just the economic poverty, the economic deprivation, but there are many different problems in these families, and that is why the government has particularly wanted to pay attention to this problem now and to create a change that will carry and last long for the years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u36	Mr President! During the last term of government, one of the eyepieces of the Social Democrats was this reform of the early childhood education law, which was done for the benefit of children. This is a whole of care, care and education that improves the conditions for learning children, educational equality, the prevention of exclusion, the right to play and culture. Indeed: no expert has supported this government proposal. You, Prime Minister, are a rational, analytical person. Now that there have been some of these weeks of regret, the presentations have been canceled, re-evaluated, isn't this the right time to do children's rights as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u37	Mr President! It is a difficult task for the government to balance the whole entity. The big job we have ahead of us is to save EUR 4 billion, find the conditions for growth and make these big reforms. This issue of housing allowance for pensioners and medical cuts has been a matter raised by Minister Mäntylä a long time ago. We have been trying to find a solution to it for several weeks. In the small streams, we found replacement savings. It is very unlikely and difficult to find savings in other things in the same way. These two things have now been prioritised as the ones on which the compensatory savings were found.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u38	Madam President! One of the eyebrows of the Sipilä government is children and families, and it is not least reflected in the titles of ministers, for example. Of course, ministers come and go, actions matter. The new position of child and family policy is one of the applets of this government. We are moving forward with a process of change that supports children and families, especially children at risk of exclusion, those children who need the support of that society when the family’s powers are not sufficient for that educational work. This work has started a few weeks ago, and the first results can be seen in the spring of next year. This is one of the eyes of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u39	Mr President! I would remind the opposition that no decisions are being taken from the opposition, so thank you, Minister Mäntylä, for cancelling the cut in the housing allowance for pensioners. We have no evidence that part-time early childhood education would jeopardise the growth and development of the child. Today we have a lot of children in part-time early childhood education. And I would ask the opposition if this is really a child's right... [President MariaLohela : Representative Huhtasaari, questions are put to the Government and Ministers. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u42	Mr President! At the same time as we have to take these painful decisions to balance the state economy, we are also trying to strengthen these services. I know this equation is not easy, but we are not living in particularly easy times now. We are living in very difficult economic times in Finland, where a great deal of debate was held over the last period about the need for decisions and now the need to balance the economy. This government has gone into it, and those acts and proposals concern the various population groups, unfortunately also families with children and education. It is a painful place for all of us, but we have to look at the big picture and the fact that if we continue living as we are now, this burden of debt will be passed on to the next generations, namely the children and young people we are talking about. And quietly, slowly, wither our services, which should, however, always be able to be developed. So now we need not only these painful savings and to endure them. [President MariaLohela :Aika, Minister-Laasonen. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u45	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Huhtasaari that subjective day care is the right of the child. It's not the right of parents. I would like you to understand that this has been an historic achievement. It supports equality between women and men and equality in working life. But apparently you do not quite understand what that means, that it is the right of the child. I have five children... [President MariaLohela :RepresentativeHänninen,I ask you to speak with a voice. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u48	Mr President! Let us make it clear once again what is happening here. So no one is denying the right to early childhood education. Every child has the right to 20 hours a week of early childhood education and also longer early childhood education in the situation where the family has the needs that the parents are working, studying, are entrepreneurs. So in practice — how am I going to put this again —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u49	Mr President! The government has said a lot today that they are absolutely for the children and for the children, but the message is in some way two-way: in a way, they admit cuts, they say they are painful, which would send a message that it is wrong, and on the other hand, it is like raising yourself up on a pedestal, that it is the children's interests that are being promoted. But I would also like briefly to raise the issue of asylum seekers, who also have a large number of families with children — if the government is in the best interests of the children. When I understand that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is in the process of preparing a proposal, that there should be this kind of own integration system for those who have received a residence permit, and this would be the lower income category, i.e. creating a social system, where there will be a group that will receive lower support, in what way will this be a policy for the benefit of families with children or for the benefit of children, or in any way sensible integration policy, that small money will be created even smaller as a category of income, where people should create their place in this society when it comes to children and families with children who would have to integrate, find language and place in society and community?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u50	Mr President! This new integration system, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health: There is no point in combining these two things now, because the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is also working very hard on it and there are a lot of discussions, including more discussions with the Ombudsman for Children, Thomas Kurttila, which is precisely what we can do better. We are talking about these second generation migrant young people, we are talking about these children and young people who are now coming here as asylum seekers, and we are looking for common solutions: for example, experience, the starting point for these young people, the children themselves, to tell us what they see, what we can do better. In other words, we are genuinely concerned about the issue of these immigrant young people and children in the STM, and we are also working on it with various organisations so that we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u51	Mr President! When it comes to early childhood education and integration and many other issues, I would also like to say that this right to early childhood education also applies to all migrant children and asylum seekers, that is to say, asylum seekers children also have the right to early childhood education, as they also have the right to education and so on at compulsory school age. And we are trying to train the staff to strengthen the multicultural skills of teachers and staff in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u52	Mr President! Sometimes we feel that in this Chamber we remember why the subjective right to full-time care 85 was laid down: in order for municipalities to commit themselves specifically to organising this day care for the family where both parents work. There are good examples in Oulu that 9-hour open day care centre, which has been in operation for 35 years, provides high-quality early childhood education, and there are studies that also show that the more can be obtained within 9 hours than during the 20-hour day care period. Does the minister have any information about this example or similar in Oulu, or perhaps interest in coming to know each other? However, it is a region that accounts for almost one third of Finland's current net birth rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u53	Mr President! I am aware and heard of these Oulu models and also from you, Mrs Talvitie, you have been very active in this matter and have brought these Oulu examples to consciousness. Of course, we have very good practices in different parts of Finland that are worth spreading — different models, in which way there can be different services for children that help children and families in each situation. And, of course, efforts are being made to disseminate these good practices in various forums and to make high-quality services for children and young people available to as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u54	Next question, Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u55	Värderade fru talman! Our country is becoming increasingly international. In Vaasa, for example, the proportion of people with foreign background is already around 8% and the city speaks more than 100 different mother tongues, the employment situation is at the top of the country and nearly 50 different nationalities work in the largest industrial export companies. Of course, this does not have a direct causal link to the immigration situation today, but we know that there are highly skilled people among asylum seekers who are highly educated and who could bring great benefits to our country. The best help in integration is your job, your salary, your family and a sense of belonging. I'll ask the minister in charge: What are you going to do to make immigrants more employable and more integrated? And would it be time to give them the right to go to work as soon as they have registered as asylum seekers? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u56	Madam President! The questioner is quite, you can say, up-to-date because the Ministry of Economic Affairs has reacted to these issues. The first step was to map out this competence at the beginning, at the point when these people come to seek that asylum, so that we know who they are, what they know and, for example, whether they have an interest in trying, what you referred to. This is, of course, the more successful we are in this integration, the less effort we can make, the cheaper it will be — if we speak Finnish. It is in our interest, it is in the interests of an immigrant. So, yes, this work has been done. And when you referred to this right to work, in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, we have considered this issue. I think we can make progress so that these people can get away with the work faster than they do now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u57	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u58	The Government Programme also mentions, at least in part, a reduction in the demand for labour outside the EU. In order to get exports back on track and business wheels around our country, we must use every possible means. Again, I would like to ask the Minister in charge: how is the process of alleviating the needs test going, and do you perhaps have some completely new ideas and innovations on how to secure the future labour supply of our companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u59	Mr President! It was agreed in the Government negotiations that the need-tested process would not be abandoned, but there is this relaxation, in so far as there are such experts, persons suitable for expert work, for their part, yes. This is precisely the aspect where it is worth looking at that knowledge, and if there is really any use for that knowledge, then this is the case with the need-tested approach. This is what has been agreed in the government negotiations and nothing else has been agreed, so this is what is being held to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u60	Madam President! Mr Strand raised a very important issue. I would now like to ask the Minister in charge: have we considered whether small-scale work could be carried out in reception centres so that asylum seekers arriving immediately can learn that Finland needs to work, can support its family and can survive in this country? I would also like to add a few more words to this question by Mr Strand: is the government prepared to remove all qualifying periods from asylum seekers so that there is no time for lying, idle time at the reception centre?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u61	Mr President! First of all, from doing this work as quickly as possible, from doing something useful at that early stage: yes, it has been discussed and it has been taken forward. From it could be started that, for example, this kind of seasonal work could be the first stage where this could be applied. Of this other right to work, to which you referred: As I said just now, yes we have paid attention to these things too and we feel on the side of the TEM that the maximum rate of employment is in the interests of everyone, including immigrants and of course this society, and this kind of so-called lying, playing Kimble, football, although there is a great sport, does not necessarily benefit us terribly. So, as soon as possible to work, that is at least my position, and I am sure that there will be an agreement within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u62	Madam President! In my work today, which is about to be published today, the solution to the Migrant crisis is precisely that it is possible to do such auxiliary work within the first three months, which does not affect the normal labour market. The problem at the moment is that many people who come to Finland and can have the opportunity to work after three months do not have proper personal papers, and that right is not available under current legislation. But, Mr Lindström, I would like to stress that this would have no impact on the normal labour market, but that it would be an obligation to work in exchange for the maintenance, social security and so forth. Is that right, Minister Lindström, that this is not about affecting the normal labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u64	Mr President! Rapid activation and access to work is, of course, the best integration. However, I personally would like to point out that we must nevertheless be able to carry out these asylum processes as quickly as possible. We currently have a forecast that between 35 and 40% of asylum seekers who are now coming to Finland will receive asylum. I believe that what is most effective is what is now being done together with the Finnish Immigration Service to try to squeeze these decisions as quickly as possible. Now they are temporarily stretched out, with so many arrivals, for more than six months, unfortunately, but at a very rapid pace we are trying to reach three months in the spring and then even better than today, that is, even there for a month, for two to process. In that case, those who are allowed to stay in Finland need security and protection must make the route to the labour market as fast as possible. And here, too, we need to look for new ways, to think about how we could get people with very low education, not language skills, but the labour market and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u65	Mr President! Successful integration is indeed of paramount importance in this situation where we are now. However, there are plenty of concerns about the success of that integration. According to the VATT report, the skills of students with an immigrant background are lower than that of the general population and this difference is greater for us than for other Nordic countries or northern European countries. Young people who have completed comprehensive school in foreign-language families are also at six times the risk of becoming outsiders, i.e. young people who are neither in education nor in employment. It is therefore important to emphasise in particular the prevention of the exclusion of second and third generation immigrants as part of wider social development. Our legislation and our political principles are also quite well taken into account by immigration, but, for example, at the level of the government programme, immigration policy has been given very little space, about ten lines, and we also have far too little resources for integration policy. Are you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the process of drawing up such a very broad demographic policy programme or strategy which would also take integration into account? There really is a need for that right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u66	Mr President! For my part, I am in charge of the fact that at the end of this month we are going to have this information to be made public with the integration agenda, which is what we have really been thinking about from every angle. And, as Mr Orpo has just mentioned, we also have to think about new ways of doing things, because this is challenging us in a completely different way than it was before. In this respect, for these groups who do not have the skills — these differences in skills are indeed great — we have to create new paths and think about new ways, and that is why we want to hear that experience from other parts of Europe too, how they have done these things, and there may be lessons to be learned from it. But at the same time we need organisations, we need cooperation from all actors. This is not just a matter for the government and the government, but it is a matter of involving many actors. Then we may be able to cope with this huge challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u67	Mr President! I would like to take up this issue of need-testing. For example, we have quite a few companies in Ostrobothnia with foreign employees, and from a purely practical point of view, the situation is that if a person from outside the EU comes to work in a greenhouse in Närpiö, for example, and if in a couple of years he wants to change for example for metal work and even if he himself is a metalman, he cannot change jobs without permission to change. So this is a huge bureaucracy: the entrepreneur has to work to get that person paid, and the person himself has to do a lot of bureaucratic work. How does the government intend to facilitate this dismantling of standards in order to make it easier for these SMEs to change employees in the future and to make these people feel that they are able to integrate into Finland and that they are accepted here?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u68	Mr President! It is true that we have this kind of bureaucracy. On the other hand, I personally understand this need assessment precisely so that we consider whether we need these people, and if so, then it is OK. But this question of trade and related bureaucracy are one of the things we have talked about now, together with Minister Vehviläinen, for example: under the umbrella of employment there are all these standards, even between the absurdities that need to be considered and which can be removed with any effort. So, yes, this is something that I do pay serious attention to. Thank you for this message. I'm taking this seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u69	Next question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u70	Madam President! In recent days, a lot has been said about the large profits of rental housing companies, which, in the form of dividends, are tax-free for their owners, including the Ay movement. For example, the dividends paid by VVO to owners have increased by five times since 2008. Dividends paid by a private company to owners are not in themselves wrong. However, there are two problems in the case of VVO. Firstly, one third of the company's apartments are state-subsidised Ara dwellings, and secondly, a large part of the high and rising rents are paid through state housing allowance. In addition to tax-free dividends, trade unions and unions also receive tax subsidies of EUR 200 million. My question is: what is the government going to do to stop tax resources being diverted to the ay movement and private companies and their owners in these cases?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u72	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u73	Mr President! In previous years, the second largest party in the government spoke out loudly in favour of abolishing the tax exemption on dividends from foundations and other so-called public interest actors. Recently it has been quieter, perhaps because the party in question now has its own foundation. As I have already said, trade unions and unions not only receive tax-exempt dividends, but also receive tax subsidies of EUR 200 million, i.e. EUR 0.2 billion, through the tax deduction right for membership contributions. Will the government intervene in these practices and extend taxation to rich foundations as well as abolish trade union tax subsidies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u74	Madam President! Of course, like all governments, we are trying to look at taxation as a whole, where the first basic principle is a broad tax base and low tax rates. Another basic principle is that the system is stable and fairly simple. We have made major tax decisions on dividend taxation, business taxation and many other entities. At the moment, we do not have a broad tax plan in the programme, but it goes without saying when we go into the question of social funding, for example, that we have to look at a lot of things again. But at this stage nothing is planned but studies, including on the taxation of foundations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u75	Mr President! We need affordable housing in Finland, especially these affordable rental dwellings here in the capital region and other growth centres. Unfortunately, in recent years these companies, which were involved in this issue, have hardly built these affordable housing, it is mainly left to the municipalities themselves. That is why I ask the government: how are we going to ensure that these affordable housing is built permanently or for as long as possible? You have a proposal for this ten-year so-called intermediate model, which means that these apartments will remain in rented use for ten years and will be able to cash in. This is, in my opinion, a very bad housing policy. How do you ensure that permanent, affordable rental dwellings are built especially here in the capital region and other growth centres?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u76	I thank Mrs Myller, Madam President, for this good question. In fact, for the first time in the SDP's ranks, it has been recognised that housing policy has not been very successful so far, as this affordable production of rental dwellings has certainly not been at the desired pace in previous years. The Board of Directors consistently strives to increase this affordable production of rental dwellings. The new short form of interest subsidies proposed by the liquidator Rossilahti is one opening. The second opening is the proposals already before us. We will also expand this affordable production of rental dwellings, the number of operators who do it, by removing restrictions. There may be new players here. In addition, we will remove these very long-term restrictions on condition that the capital released is invested in new production. Government housing policy
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u77	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate will be opened by Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u78	Madam President! This presentation is now more of a demonstration of dissenting opinion. After all, this is an income tax law, and we Social Democrats are, as we know, in a different tax policy on a number of issues than the government is. Generally speaking, perhaps it is very important these days that we can pay attention in general to the fairness of taxation and to the fairer distribution of this burden of recession. As we know, Finland's taxation today, for example, is very strongly directed at work and consumption, while ownership of all taxation is significantly below the European Union average. This imbalance should be corrected. The tax base needs to be broadened, the financial sector needs to be more involved and, overall, we need new proposals that prevent different opportunities for corporate tax evasion. But then, President, to this Income Tax Act. There has been a lot of talk here in Parliament that today the good-for-nothing has to participate in these paralytics, more than this day. It was, of course, a good thing that, as a result of the long pressure from the opposition and the SDP, the government, in the autumn, took a small increase in the capital tax and, at this stage, a small one, I would say a solidarity tax, but unfortunately, these proposals were now crumbling. It has now become apparent that, for example, this so-called solidarity tax is not, for example, a tax. strike us as MPs. In line with the government's proposal, we have a reduction in taxation, which in my view is not a sufficient measure at this stage overall. This government proposal also has another very bad runoff. It is the fact that the government is once again making a difference between pensioners and employees in relation to their taxation. We have very often said in this Chamber that it is amazing that, before the elections, Alexander Stubb, the chairman of the coalition, said that it is a fundamental philosophy of the coalition, that the taxation of pensioners and employees is uniform. Now, in Mr Stubb's presentation, he is quite right to reduce the tax burden on employees on low and medium incomes, but it is a major downside that, at the same time, the taxation of pensioners will not be reduced accordingly and this tax gap will now be torn open. President! Even here in Question Time it became clear that, now that these so-called weeks of regret have been spent by the government, it would be appropriate to correct this problem. There's still a way to fix it. Parliament has not yet closed this law. Of course, we have already voted on this in the Committee on Finance. At the time, we were deprived of the support of the government parties, but there is still a chance in this Chamber to remedy this dwindling defect overall. The government has rightly withdrawn, at the request of the opposition and the SDP, a totally excessive reduction in housing allowance for pensioners, and now this tax distortion must also be abolished. President! We, the SDP, have raised objections to this Income Tax Act. As a solidarity element, we are putting forward two more points for the most well-off. At the same time, we are making a reduction in earnings, as the government is doing, but we are emphasising it in different ways, that is to say that it is genuinely and more profitable than the government's proposal, especially for those with low and medium income incomes, but then the most well-paid pay higher taxes than those proposed by the government in our proposal. We also have a basic reduction proposal in which we will increase the basic reduction slightly more than the government. Then we also have proposals for capital taxes, an additional 2% for both stocks, which is entirely reasonable today. When the government is demanding five levels of wage cuts from employees, would it not be reasonable for the then-owned class also to be able to pay two more levels of capital income today? President! We also propose to keep the legislation unchanged in this reduction in interest rates on mortgages. After all, the government is cutting off this right of interest relief, and it is an unreasonable thing for many families with children in this situation, because there is a certain degree of confidence in development and a desire to plan for it in life. We do not consider this proposal to be wise. Similarly, we present to this donation deduction what the government is proposing. It's a good thing to be able to donate to colleges. It does, of course, unfortunately remind us that the government is making totally unreasonable cuts in funding for universities and universities. We propose changes to this and, among other things, make it possible to reduce even the lower income if you make a small donation. After all, the government has this limit at a reasonably high level, from where to start the deduction. On the other hand, we would also keep the upper limit at the same level as it has been in the past with a temporary ceiling of 250,000. After all, the government is proposing doubles bigger, which would only apply to very few people with high incomes who then have the opportunity to reduce. Similarly, the SDP argues in this context that this deduction would only apply to donations to Finland. We've got a couple of kicks here. The second concerns the fact that we want to put a stop to the fact that these real estate companies, by exercising the right to deduct interest, can actually avoid tax, and we are proposing an extension of this right to deduct interest. Similarly, the second pony concerns inheritances of more than one million. We want them, too, to be taxed at two levels, 2% more than today. As has been said, it is quite reasonable when we talk about the need for fair taxation. Here, President, the content of our objection is brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u79	Madam President! It is particularly important during a period of tight economic management that the position of the low-income and low-income groups should not be allowed to deteriorate. That is why green tax solutions reduce income differentials, i.e. those with good income and wealth bear a substantial part of the burden of fiscal consolidation. In our tax solution, we significantly increase the basic deduction of municipal tax, which increases the hand-held income of benefits and pensioners. This fights poverty and also secures important purchasing power and demand for services for the domestic market. Similar tax revenues are collected from recipients of higher earnings and capital income. The government has expressed the hope that those with good income will voluntarily participate in economic adjustment efforts by donating part of their income to charities, for example. Social solidarity is achieved considerably more efficiently and fairly through taxation than through voluntary charity. Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä has repeatedly hoped that the opposition would come up with solutions. Well, here they come. The government proposes that the solidarity tax should start to be paid at EUR 72300 per year, which is justifiable. However, we propose that, in addition to the reduction in the lower limit, the upper income category, which is earned in excess of EUR 91000 per year, the solidarity tax should be increased by 1 percentage point. The maximum basic reduction in municipal tax is currently EUR 2970, and next year it will be quite right to revise it to more than EUR 3000. The deduction is therefore made after other deductions, and in addition to wages and salaries, it is applied to benefits and pensions. The government is increasing the reduction in earnings on labour income, which increases the hand-held income of people with low and medium incomes, but is leaving the basic deduction virtually unchanged, excluding a small correction. Increasing the basic deduction would increase the income left in hand, not only for wage and salary earners, but also for pensioners and beneficiaries of benefits. Therefore, the Greens argue that increasing the reduction by around EUR 1000 to more than EUR 4000 and increasing the reduction rate to 23% would mean tax losses for municipalities of 300 million, but would reduce poverty and reduce income disparities. Madam President! The Government will increase the government's tax revenue by reducing the right to deduct interest on mortgages in relation to current legislation in a very fast-track schedule with a reduction of around 10 percentage points per year. If you look at the EU Commission's tax reform report, in Finland the right to deduct a mortgage is high compared to real estate taxes, which encourages debt-taking. The abolition of interest rebates would support the objectives of clarifying taxation. In order to balance central government finances and clarify taxation, the right to deduct interest could be abolished altogether during this parliamentary term. The annual decrease would be 15 percentage points instead of 10 per cent. In 2016, the right to deduct interest would be 45 per cent. Due to low interest rates, the timing of depreciation would be as favourable as possible to adapt to the change. Madam President! The capital income tax is now moderately tightening, as the whole House knows. There's one step in the tax. Until EUR 30000, the tax is 30 %. The tax is 33 per cent of the higher income. The government rightly proposes that the higher tax rate be increased by 1 percentage point to 34%. We Greens are proposing to add one new step to the capital income tax so that, as capital income exceeds EUR 60000, the tax would rise to 35%. The new step increases the tax revenue of the state by EUR 31 million. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u80	Madam President! In the Committee on Budgets, when we were discussing taxation next year, it was clear that the room for manoeuvre is very limited as it is now. Next year's tax scale and income tax rates reflect the limited fiscal room for manoeuvre and, on the other hand, the need to adjust public finances in a pre-emergence manner. But next year's taxation has not only tightening elements but also tax-reducing elements, and above all, as we have seen before and after the elections, the main focus must be on reducing the tax burden on labour, so that work would always be worthwhile in all situations. After all, the Government has also prepared for a significant reduction in income tax in 2017 if these central government balancing measures achieve those jointly agreed targets. These reductions would be for both workers and pensioners, and they will certainly be something that I hope everyone will want to pursue, both employers and workers in the labour market organisations and all of us politicians, and I believe that they will benefit and be expected by all Finns as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u83	Mr President! Well, that's where Mr. Heinonen went with two strollers in style.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u88	Madam Speaker! There were two wheels on this assembly in connection with this solidarity tax, but it is actually quite worrying that when we talk about this tax issue for pensioners,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u93	Mr President! I was also very surprised by what Mr Heinonen said, because I was quite sure that Mr Heinonen is now going to tell us about the tax line for this convention in relation to the taxation of pensioners. This has been the case in this Chamber before, and Mr Heinonen has been there, and it has been the question of what is the line of the coalition on pensioner taxation, because before the elections they made a big noise that pensioners should have the same tax treatment as workers and criticised the centre that this was not the case in the election programme in the centre. It was the famous basic philosophy. And now that it has been said this autumn that the government is presenting exactly the opposite of what was promised before the elections — that is, the relative taxation of pensioners against wage earners is being tightened — we hear different positions on the assembly, but Mr Heinonen has not yet said a single position. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He makes fine speeches, quotes these reports and statements from the committee, and then first he understands the solidarity tax in the first part of the sentence and then in the second part he says that this is not really right, because we have people who know how to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u94	Madam President! I repeat what I have said before to the Social Democrats in this Chamber: when elections were going to take place and government negotiations, the aim of the vote was that the reduction in income tax should have been made on the income tax scale, so that it would have treated both employees and pensioners in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u97	Mr President! Indeed, many times the government has been subjected to the pressure created by the opposition, among other things, in conjunction with non-governmental organisations. I think there's 10 to 15 of those things. Of course, you can laugh and ask what the effect is, but it just happens that all the things in which the government has changed its line are exactly what the opposition has raised,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u100	Madam President! Indeed, when we talk about these cancellations, there has been a lot of them. They're good things in themselves. It is very good that the government, for example, withdraws this bill of amnesty for tax evaders. But, on the other hand, we would get a lot easier if we didn't have to bring it first and then cancel it, when we could see that this is wrong or not the right kind of presentation, so that the question is why it has to be brought. Now again we are in a situation where, as Mr Lindtman said, we must first make this tax distortion, leave the taxation of pensioners to an unfair level compared to employees, when we can only correct it now and do it, as Mr Lindtman said, in such an extension, that it is decided to extend now to pensioners this equal right. I am actually appealing to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government: since you know that it is possible that you will regret it later, could you now think that, when we vote on this in Parliament shortly, you would support this SDP bill, where it would be corrected?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u101	Mr President! Just one detail at this point when Mr Viitanen said that the government withdrew whether it was now, the tax law of tax evaders.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u104	Mr President! The government has not withdrawn anything from the pressure of the opposition, but has come to the point of considering that it is reasonable to do otherwise at this stage. But I do call on the left and the Social Democrats to be responsible for this overall economic situation. As far as low incomes are concerned, the government is exempting more than 300,000 of the VAT on low incomes, and there are many pensioners. Remember this! The lower limit will rise from EUR 51 to EUR 70, which means that it will have a significant impact on the revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u105	Madam President! I found it interesting to hear this representative. Mrs Lintilä's speech as such, but, of course, I would like to see the representative present. Lintilä would now take a stand on this taxation of pensioners, because the third line of the Convention is Mrs Zyskowicz's line: it is said that this is, in itself, wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u106	Madam President! Personally, I welcome the fact that in such a situation, when there is little room for manoeuvre, the government puts work ahead of everything. As a matter of fact, you have to put your work into everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u109	Mr President! First of all, this guarantee pension. It's not an increase, it's a government pension scheme. So, Mr Heinonen, in the first year you will give a little more and then in the next few years you will take it away, so that, at the end of the term of the government, the beneficiaries of the guarantee pension will also be at a disadvantage. That is true, this increase in your guarantee pension is a pension scheme, do not try to speak it white. Mr President! Now the news has come: Mr Heinonen said that it is quite right that this tax reduction reserve should only be allocated here to income deductions. It has been tried for a long time to get what the coalition line is, and now that line has come. So, Heinonen, when you are a central member of the Committee on Finance, is your line now that a middle-income pensioner should pay more tax on the same income? And since you think this is the case, is there a limit? whether EUR 250 is sufficient,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u110	Mr President! Yes, this matter of taxation for pensioners is really quite a big thing. However, for many who receive a relatively small pension, a couple hundred euros is a big money. This distinction, which is now being introduced by this government against the promises made before the elections, is important for the livelihood of these people, and it is therefore right that pensioners should hear who is in favour of this. This debate is very important. Mr Kankaanniemi has been so experienced as a parliamentarian that he took the floor but did not reply to this question and did not state his own position as to whether pensioners should be taxed more than those in employment. Mr Heinonen has now finally taken a position and said, if I have understood correctly, that this must be done, that this is actually the right line, and I expect Mr Zyskowicz now to listen to Mr Heino. There is no point in blaming the centre, but this is in fact the line of the coalition, which is the relative tightening of the taxation of pensioners in relation to wage earners. But this is also a moral issue. Many pensioners feel that they are not appreciated and that they are inferior in this society in a spiritual sense, that they are not given the value of equal treatment, and this aspect too must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u111	Madam President! I always listen with an accurate ear to what Mr Heinonen says, Mr Heinäluoma. I've never accused the city of anything. In the run-up to the elections, I have told you what the various parties were trying to achieve in this regard and what was the outcome of the government negotiations together. But I must be surprised — whether it would be a little too mild of this kind — and be really surprised at the great concern the Social Democrats are now facing in this situation that employees and pensioners should be taxed in a uniform way. In the last parliamentary term, when the Social Democrats had the portfolio of the Minister of Finance, the so-called 'pick-up tax', which was brutally hated by pensioners, was introduced in this country, specifically to tighten the taxation of well-earned pensioners in relation to wage earners at the same level of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u112	Mr President! Actually, Mr Zyskowicz here read my mind and told me quite a bit about it. In other words, last season it happened that we were separated from the taxation of workers and pensioners — whether, in fact, the Minister of Finance was Rinne or whether Urplainen was still there — and this was precisely the levy on pensioners. This is the first time that this separation has taken place, and of course the fact that such a mistake has been made under the leadership of the Socialists does not justify that it is now more correct. Mr Zyskowicz said here what has been the aim of the coalition in these solutions, and I myself mentioned what has been decided in the negotiations on the Government Programme and how it will be reflected in next year's state budget. But I still think it is important that there is a good record for 2017, where a billion euros tax reduction is made for pensioners and workers alike, once we have brought this country's economy to proper balance first.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u113	Mr President! When preparing for the 2007 parliamentary elections, I believe that all parties, at least the big parties, committed themselves to taxing pension income in the same way as wages. And we have come from the fact that it was a genuine promise made in these parliamentary elections, so let us go. It was not in the last parliamentary term that this tax on pensioners, so to speak, was tightened, but the solution that was taken during the last parliamentary term meant that pensioners and employees are being taxed in the same way, even in this category of income. And if Mr Heinonen is now working on this matter, he will find the facts on the Taxpayer's website, where this exact comparison has been made. If I don't know correctly if there's even a CEO from the United States, but no matter what party, I'm sure you'll get this information from there. So I ask that this be recorded in the parliamentary record so that there will be no such misinformation here in life. And then we come to this time. Congressman Heinonen, this model of yours isn't gonna fix anything. If the pension income deduction is not increased, as the demos suggest, this will become permanent, and then when table adjustments are made, the same difference will still be at the bottom.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u116	Mr President! Indeed, our common goal is to treat pensioners on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u119	Madam President! Here comes today’s second news, that is to say, the Finns of Peru also simply demand that pensioners have to have stricter taxation than wage and salary earners. You say that there is now a forced situation and later it will be corrected, and at the same time, the Finns of Finland, you can afford to reduce the car tax this season by EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u122	Congressman Lindtman now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u123	Madam President! There is one thing I would like to correct in the parliamentary minutes, because Mrs Lintilä was giving out the wrong information here. He said that during the last parliamentary term the Committee on Finance required that this effective repentance be brought into Parliament as a law. That's not true. Mr President! That's not true. In its statement, the Committee on Finance called for clarification of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u126	Mr President! Yes, this debate will be useful in that when this short time is discussed, these positions will gradually begin to emerge. This culture of silence is crumbling, and representatives are forced to tell us what positions they represent. I hope that the Keskisuomalainen will give broad scope to Mr Kankaanniemi's opinion that pensioners should be taxed more than employed employees. I hope that there will be a great deal of room for today's debate and that the voters will see what is actually being done here and what has been said in those provinces. They're two completely different things. Just as we saw on this question of the traffic gap: there the centre people were speaking with luxuries in the provinces, that is wrong with this government policy, and then it is said here that, well, it is actually right and only possible. This pensioner business is becoming permanent under this government policy, as we have heard here, that there will be a permanent tax on pensioners more than on employees. It doesn't seem like it's just next year's job anymore. It's being made a permanent mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u127	Mr President! I did not say this as the representatives of Viitanen and Heinäluoma here claimed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u130	Mr President! In short, only so much from this tax debate that these drops are now being raised for the better-earned, the income tax rate and the capital tax are being pinched slightly, as Mr Pia Viitanen said in his own speech at the beginning. But I would also like you to pay attention to the other side, that if that Pia Viitane's objective were to be achieved, that the amount of people affected by this drop tax would be very small.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u133	Mr President! However, I would like you to take a look at this option of the SDP. In many respects, the SDP option is based on lighter taxation than the government option. Among other things, such low and medium-income employees pay less tax in our proposal than in the government proposal. We want to reduce the taxation of employees, the taxation of pensioners. As far as this capital tax issue is concerned, this government thinks that jobs will be created by freezing competitiveness next year, not doing anything for employment here and now and then 2017 requires employees to have five levels of pay. [President MariaLohela :Mr Viitanen,I ask you to speak this way,the votes will be better cast on the import recording. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u136	Mr President! This debate is certainly very interesting when, at regular intervals, the representatives of the government parties — and in particular more than here — say that this is only painful and that it must be accepted that it is painful and that there is no room for manoeuvre. But when you start looking more closely at who this hurts, it really hurts those people with the lowest income who are already in trouble. But it is difficult to see that when you have to take something from those who are reasonably well, for example through this capital tax, even in the centre, which used to understand the matter of the poor, and where Santeri Alkio was the one whose name was sworn and to some extent still in the country of Finland, it is no longer visible at all, and then the concern is no longer a low-income pensioner. Not a word about low - income pensioners, but instead there is concern that if you had to pay a little more for dividends, it could be terrible, terrible. We're in a difficult place. It is better to collect on a broad tax base, where Minister Stubb was quite right, by the way, when he said that the broad tax base, quite the right objective. But then you also have to take from those with slightly bigger shoulders and ask for their input.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u137	Mr President! I am confused by this speech by Mr Hoskonen. Last season, the city centre was still proposing a Robinhood tax for the most high-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u140	Madam President! Yes, the cause of the poor and the cause and cause of Santeri Alkio are always in the background. But now, on this capital income tax, I would like to say so much that there are also misconceptions that it would always be a tax on the rich. We have a lot of business, small business, forestry, where the only income can be capital income tax. Yes, it pays a much higher tax in proportion than would be paid in the form of a mere income tax. This is an aspect that is very often overlooked, and this is a flaw, and the fact that capital income alone is being raised does not fully correct the state treasury either. It is, of course, a good thing that there is a slight step-up, but that too should not go higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u141	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Savola actually drew very important attention to the issue of capital taxation. After all, the Left Alliance has long been in favour of a model in which capital income would also be subject to progressive taxation, i.e. in terms of ability to pay, which would mean that the taxation of small capital income recipients would be reduced and the taxation of large capital income recipients, i.e. those who have the ability to pay, would then be tightened. We have also included such a model in our shadow budget. Perhaps with regard to capital taxation, I should like to raise one more point which is generally overlooked in this debate, which concerns the structure and the tax base of capital taxation. In other words, we also have a problem in Finland to look at, for example, dividend taxation, these rather large tax exemptions, which are included in this capital tax, and which generally mean that the actual tax rate for the recipients of capital income is significantly lower than one might think by reading purely tax scales.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u142	Madam President! If there are no misunderstandings now, let us just say that Mrs Hoskone is very much in favour of some levying, but it must also be reasonable in that regard. Increasing the tax rate constantly will inevitably lead to jobs disappearing in us, capital disappears in this country. We live in an open economy, gates can no longer be closed, friends. It's just like this. Mr Heinäluoma represents a very strong position here on tax policy and acts as a supreme judge in what is good and what is wrong and what is right, but during his own Minister of Finance he abolished the property tax. Wasn't that your choice of values? Wasn't there a sting in the soul then, or what was the situation? The thing is, if we go down this road, that we should not constantly take anything from this country, or rather make reforms, develop, the overall tax rate is such a thing that if we raise it very high, then jobs will be lost. That is the position of Prime Minister Sipilä's government and Sipilä's position in person. It's a good position. It needs to be defended. Work must be given to people, because the only way to raise living standards and raise pension security is the right job. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u143	Mr President! I agree 100% with the rest of Mr Hoskonen's speech, and I agree 100%.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u146	Madam President! Representative Lindtman used the truth a bit sparingly when he said that the city centre would reduce the tax burden on high incomes. I do not quite understand how this will be a tax reduction if we raise the capital tax and the solidarity tax threshold is dropped to 72,000. Yes, I definitely regard them as tax blackmails. And if it comes from this classic that the right direction but inadequate, then there too are bound to be limits. We must now also see that when we have more than EUR 75,000 of income earners making about 3.5 per cent, we cannot go there and put all the pressure there. And I think this drop in the income category of the solidarity tax is already a clear blackmail on the higher incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u147	Mr President! Ten years ago, the finance minister, Eero Heinäluoma, ran through the trio here that the property tax was abolished. According to the calculations made since then, its profits amounted to more than EUR 100 million per year, i.e. now that it has been away from the 40,000 richest people in Finland for ten years, then another billion you have given clean money, Finnish euros, to these rich people. This is the truth. There would have been no obligation to abolish the property tax, but to correct its shortcomings and, in addition, to pay dividends to the tax, as if it were fair and just as it is now. The second was that your Minister, Mr Urplainen, suddenly suggested that the corporation tax in the last period should fall from 24.5 to 20%.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u150	Mr President! I understand that when the emergency is greatest and should take responsibility for the decisions that are being made in Parliament this autumn, then the representative The Kankaanniemi is happy to spend time on events ten years ago, although it is also, of course, wrong to do so, that is clear. Don't you have any conscience at all about what you tell the voters about your tax ruling this fall on pensioners? Do you tell them that ten years ago, when the property tax was abolished and dividends were taxed and the combined income was over EUR 400 million per year net to the state, it was a bad deal? In ten years it will be over EUR 4 billion, and in 15 years it will be EUR 6 billion. Is this what you're telling me, or is it the fact that you don't want to talk about this pensioner's housing tax and you're trying to take this conversation to the history page?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u151	Madam President! I cannot refrain from taking part in this interesting debate on capital taxes. I entirely agree with Mr Andersson that the position of small entrepreneurs, who are subject to capital taxes when they operate through partnerships and the names of individuals, should be improved. Fortunately, the government programme of Sipilä’s Government provides for an entrepreneurial reduction for them and also for producers. But you have to play a little memory game when you feel like there's a little oblivion here for both the Left Alliance and the SDP. Mr Andersson, the Left Alliance could have reduced the tax burden on these small entrepreneurs in the last government. Instead, the corporation tax on listed companies was reduced. Small entrepreneurs did not benefit from it at all. I know that the Social Democrats know this, but I would like to reiterate that there are no tax-exempt dividends from any limited liability company. I'm sure the corporation tax will go out of it. If there is a small limited liability company, it pays its corporation tax and then the dividends come from it. They're not tax-free. They're fallen from heaven. I agree with Mr Savola's estimates of how forest owners, for example, get their incomes in that rural area.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u152	Mr President! It is unfortunate that this kind of thing only a second-season MP will once again have to fix Congressman Mika Lintilä, who said that yes now that there will be more than 70,000-euro-earning tax evasion, then it will be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u155	Mr President! The voters in Central Finland thank the fact that after four years of deception, the diversion of previous governments, the government has taken over the issues and is now making a policy in all respects that Finland will be put in order. Waiting for the Social Democrats to come along. As far as this property tax is concerned, it is, Mr Heinäluoma, so that you made a choice of values. At the time, for example, Mr Reijo Laitinen said that no trio had agreed to abolish the property tax. You introduced it as the first thing you did when you became Minister and went through, and it was a pure donation to Kyösti Two, Erko, Sukar. It was also visible in KMS's distribution of money after that. In other words, you are weak in it, as is the drastic reduction in corporation tax. Was it an employee's interest? No, it wasn't. It was in the interests of big business.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u156	Mr President! I do not believe, unlike Mr Kankaanniemi, that the pensioner there in Central Finland, in front of Siwa, when you meet, is necessarily to be commended for the fact that a good policy is being taken now when we eat the words, the promises that were made before the elections, and we are in favour of increasing the tax gap between pensioners and employees and treating pensioners unfairly and unfairly. But Action Kankaanniemi pays off and believes that this is a good thing and the voter will thank you again. I, Mr Kankaanniemi, can go with you to Central Finland. Let us go and listen to the thanks the pensioners give for the fact that you discriminate against their taxes. But that's a good thing, you see, you make your own choice of values. But what I am concerned about is the pensioner, the voter to whom you promised quite differently. Many pensioners are on low incomes. A lot of people don't appreciate that propaganda of yours very much. And once again, Mr President, it is amazing that Mr Action Kankaanniemi has a very thick bag of money when there is enough money to reduce the tax on cars, but when you have to defend the poor, the worker defends, the workers defend, the pensioner defends, the money is out of money. Then the only explanation for this is that why everything is all right is when a decision has been made ten years ago. It's not your story, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u157	Mr President! Well, this is an interesting conversation. When you listen to the representative of the Finns Party in Kangasniemi, you get the feeling that he has no authority at all, that he is the chairman of the History Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u158	Mr President! However, with regard to this taxation of low incomes, it should be borne in mind that the income below EUR 20000 does not in practice be paid by anyone, neither by employees nor by pensioners. Representative Heinäluoma spoke of a monthly income of less than EUR 1000. There is hardly any municipal tax on it — very small, I do not remember the percentage, but it is very little when it takes account of certain reductions. So even there the tax rate is very low, certainly not too high. Of course it would be the best tax exemption, but it is only in that way in this world that if municipal households are in good shape, then the municipal income tax rate can even be reduced, but if municipalities are pulled into a very tight noose for the sake of the state, it will lead to an increase in the municipal income tax rate, and it is the small resident who suffers from it in that municipality. He is very rarely affected by the State tax, the little pensioner, because he does not pay the State tax. That is what we are talking about here, but in practice look at the state income tax table, there it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u159	I would like to give two more answers to this stage of debate, because there are many people here who are actually asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u160	Mr President! Yes, a responsible pensioner is thinking for the benefit of future generations and the current unemployed and is prepared to deal with things here in such a way that employment will improve and thus generate more tax revenue to safeguard the services of retired people and also the economic future and life. This is such a serious question. This has now been thrown in vain with such a light slap, it is not the time for that now. We have to prioritise matters, and the government has prioritised the reduction in labour taxation for people with low and middle incomes, and taxation at the top is being tightened, including the tax on capital income. This is not what the socialist ministers did last season, but is now moving forward: the low incomes are being reduced, the high incomes are being taxed more heavily. It's a line selection. It's a new line selection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u161	And one last response to this debate, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u162	Mr President! It's just that this thing for pensioners isn't a light slap.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u165	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u166	Mr President! Here, after an hour of debating, I noticed that I had not really screwed up so much, even though I did not remember to give a presentation to this government proposal in advance. I think this is pretty far-fetched at this point. Perhaps now, however, it is good to say that there is, however, a proposal behind which the government is: There is a loss of property, which has been discussed to some extent. I hope that this will mobilise some risk money, because then the right to reduce this loss will be extended. What annoys me in a certain way, but what mirrors this high level of income tax is that the 35% withholding tax on foreign employees will continue. So this is the foreign so-called. The tax on experts, which has been in place for several years now, must have been maintained since 96. [First Vice-President Mr Pekkarinen : I would now like to ask the speaker to move to the podium. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u169	Mr President! Congressman Lintilä called this recent debut a rascal. I thought it was so fresh to hear. Yes, this government bill on income tax is well balanced in this situation and takes account of the economic and demand situation. As a whole, it will reduce taxation by EUR 560 million and the part that goes away from it will be fully replaced by state transfers. There are considerable issues here that take into account low and medium incomes. In fact, they control this proposal when the income tax scale is increased by 1.2 percentage points for those on low and medium incomes, the income limits, the reduction in labour income and the basic deduction of municipal taxes are increased. In other words, these are the very things you would think would be of interest to the Social Democrats. It is important that this right to deduct losses is extended. After all, the State has been very willing to participate in the distribution of profits by taxing the proceeds, but the risk of losses has been very reluctantly involved. It is now slightly expanded so that capital income other than disposal gains can be reduced to a limited extent. We're looking for an entrepreneur's deduction. Without business and employers, no nation can survive. After all, the previous government took only the income tax of limited liability companies into account, not other forms of business, at least half of the entire business field. And I would say here that you would think that this proposal would be particularly pleasing to the Social Democrats when there was a solidarity tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u170	And again, it would be two minutes full.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u171	Mr President! Welcome to Central Finland, representatives of Heinäluoma and Viitanen, to talk to people. Of course, let us discuss the previous period and a little history at the same time, because that is the starting point for where we are today. For example, the solutions for the last parliamentary term are the fiscal policies of the socialist chairmen, the finance ministers, Urplainen and Rinne. There is now a quite clear change of direction in tax policy, considering that we are in the first autumn of this government's life. The taxation of low incomes and middle incomes will be reduced. The taxation of high-income and high dividend income recipients of capital income will be tightened. It's a change of line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u174	Mr President! The sad fact is that the tax line proposed by the government and now blessed by the majority of the Committee on Finance does not change the big problem of our tax policy. And the big problem with tax policy is that we have a much more severe tax on work than in other countries, and correspondingly less on capital and property and its profits than elsewhere. This is the big thing. And when there is no courage to go to this side of the taxation of capital and property income and there is no courage to go to the income of the financial sector, the undertaxed financial sector, to take part in these efforts as well, the result is that the tax burden is quite heavy for the ordinary wage and pensioner. This is the big line. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, rightly said in his Question Time speech that the starting point for a sustainable tax policy is this broad tax base. But the government is not making proposals to this effect. It's a big problem. And the very particular problem is that this government's tax line does not treat the various population groups in a fair way, contrary to what is beautifully presented here. So this solution, which has now been adopted by the government and which the majority of the Committee on Finance, quite unexpectedly to me, agreed that pensioners should be taxed at a higher rate than employees, is indeed a change in our tax line. In that, Mr Kankaanniemi is right that something will change: this tax treatment between pensioners and employees will change. And now we have heard that the Finns do not only accept this, but even consider this to be in principle the right line. That is how I understood what you said when you implied that when this is done, there will be quite a bit of new jobs, and that is why pensioners are in favour of this. But I doubt that new jobs will be created by keeping the taxation of pensioners more stringent than that of employees, what this proposal of yours means. That is why I am not going to give up on this, but I am going to assume that we will talk about this until the weeks of regret are on the board of the government and this will be corrected. So long has it been said that the government will give up on this matter and treat pensioners according to the same principles as employees, so the sooner you make this change, the less you can talk. Then to this big problem, which is not now the subject of decision-making, because there are no proposals from the government, and it concerns this financial sector: we must remember where these problems come from. After all, they will leave this year in 2008 and the financial crisis. The huge risk-taking of banks, investment institutions, and when the risks threatened to destabilise the entire financial system, taxpayers were called for help. And then it happened that the profits were private and then the losses had to be socialized. This led to a very great economic problem throughout the world, but especially in Europe, and these tracks are still being patched up. This in turn, when countries were forced to pump money into the economy, accelerated their indebtedness, especially for those countries that were already in debt. Interestingly, although it has been said everywhere that the very big reason for these problems is this huge risk-taking, it is still not ready for this sector to contribute in the same way to the financing of society's activities as other sectors in society have to contribute. And the government is not going to intervene in any way, this is not in the government programme, I do not know if anyone has even presented it. There is probably no correction to this, nor is it reflected here in the report by the Committee on Finance. So tax policy really needs a bigger change, but that is not what Mr Kankaanniemi was talking about. When Mr Kankaanniemi spoke about this level of capital tax, there is reason to recall what this history of capital taxation was. If Mr Kankaanniemi, on the history committee, goes through the pages very carefully and does not get stuck in the last parliamentary term, but goes a little further,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u181	Mr President! I was a little surprised to hear today that I have the honour of giving a speech from the Left Alliance in connection with this government proposal on the income tax scale. I will make a small speech like this, where I will bring up the views of the left-wing parliamentary group in relation to these tax policies. Firstly, there has been some talk in this Chamber today about tax objectives, and this has rightly and well highlighted the impact of taxation on employment and the way in which taxation can support employment. In addition, from the perspective of the Left Alliance, it is also important to stress that taxation is also a key means of addressing the fairness of income distribution and also a key instrument for tackling aggressive tax planning and the shadow economy. Then Mr Kankaanniemi spoke here in his own speech about a change of direction, a change of direction, and then, of course, we should first consider whether we are talking about a change of line in relation to what we are talking about. As has been well pointed out in this previous speech, these proposals do not in any way change the major flaws in Finland's tax policy, i.e. do not represent any change of direction in relation to it. But this does not change in any way this whole economic policy of the government, the overall picture and the line. In other words, these small blackmails, which are now being imposed on the taxation of capital income and on the solidarity tax, are mainly cosmetic: they do not in any way change this big picture, which is that the government has decided to implement these austerity funds in such a way that very painful cuts are directed at low-income services and essential services for all, and then completely exclude high-income and high-income tax increases from this range of means. This is clearly a choice of values, one on which the Left Alliance disagrees with the government. Then, as far as these individual proposals are concerned, the Left Alliance is of the opinion that this lower limit of the solidarity tax should be reduced to EUR 70000 and that it should be tightened in the case of annual income exceeding EUR 100 000. This would be a concrete way of doing what many representatives of the government parties have spoken about here today, i.e. involving Finnish employees with high incomes more in these austerity projects. And we also take it for granted that people in the parliamentary income class should be involved in these activities. Then, as I myself mentioned earlier, the alternative budget of the Left Alliance also includes a proposal to harmonise capital taxation with the current wage tax. This is a radical reform for tax justice, but something that our party has been pushing for for a long time. We believe that this would be a good way of genuinely implementing the principle of progressive taxation, i.e. that taxes are actually paid according to their ability to pay. At the same time, it would also be a way of addressing what we see as one of the key problems of capital taxation at the moment, that is, this structure of capital taxation, which, as I pointed out earlier, means, for example, that the actual rate of taxation for those who receive capital income may be considerably lower than one might expect and believe by reading these tax scales. And at the same time, this harmonisation of taxation, in terms of capital and wage income, would also mean that this problem of income conversion would be overcome in Finland. As far as these government proposals on reducing the tax burden on labour are concerned, I have to say that taxation can have an impact on employment when tax reductions are targeted in such a way as to support the growth of purchasing power. This means, in our view, that these tax reductions should be targeted at the low incomes, thus also having a maximum impact on purchasing power and thus on demand. It will then support employment in Finland in the best and more effective way. Finally, a comment on this right to tax deduction for natural persons, which concerns donations to higher education institutions. According to the Left Alliance's parliamentary group, this proposal is one part of this government's educational policy package, which we consider to be very bad and also harmful to Finnish higher education, research and education. In other words, this whole development seems to be on the one hand cutting the basic funding of universities with a very heavy hand and then presenting these cuts and this funding gap to fill the incentives for Finnish rich people to donate money to individual universities and disciplines that they themselves support or which, in their view, are worthy of support. Well, then, what will be the result of this whole thing? Our tax system is becoming more fragmented and complex, contrary to what has been said here, that we should try to ensure that there is a clear and clear tax system in which there is not as much reduction potential as there is at present. This also leads, for universities, to an uneven distribution of funding between different universities and also between different disciplines. Then, of course, it also means that universities and scientists are becoming increasingly dependent on certain individual benefactors in terms of research and access to finance, rather than making a higher education policy in Finland that seeks to secure adequate basic funding for all universities and disciplines and which, in the best possible way, would also enable scientists to focus on basic research and teaching, i.e. those factors that we need to strengthen in order to improve and achieve the economy and economic growth of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u182	Mr President! The government's proposal for the Income Tax Scale and other related laws includes, among other things, an increase of up to EUR 1260 in the reduction in labour income directed mainly at people on low and medium incomes. This reduction and the inflation increase in the income tax scale will improve the purchasing power of low and middle-income employees by around EUR 20 per month. At the same time, this tax reduction encourages the acceptance of the work. Although, unfortunately, not all unemployed people still have enough jobs in the current situation, these changes should also facilitate part-time employment as well as increased income. In the same context, a reduction of the so-called solidarity tax threshold from EUR 90000 to EUR 72300 is proposed. In addition, given the increase of one percentage point to the upper capital tax category, the government's actions are slightly extorting. Indeed, the overall impact of the proposal is to narrow the income gap slightly and, therefore, to allocate taxation according to the ability to pay. High skills for the future of our people play a very important role. In the future, it is important to pay attention to the attractiveness of education and thus to ensure, through taxation, that the annual tax burden of those who have studied for a long time does not become excessive. This is also shown by the extension of the withholding tax period for special talents from abroad, as proposed, as well as by the right of natural persons to deduct tax on donations to universities and universities. The nature of capital income, in particular for natural persons, is that it may not accumulate in the same amount each year. Thus, a high degree of progress is not particularly suitable for the taxation of capital. On the other hand, it will be possible to reduce disposal losses not only from disposal gains but also from other capital income, which will help to improve the position of the taxpayer and may also increase the willingness to invest. In the future, I would also like to see a development in order to widen the tax base on capital income rather than a continuous increase in the tax rate. I am sure that Mr Heinäluoma will agree with me on this, as well as Mr Andersson on the basis of what they said earlier. The rate of reduction of interest rebates on mortgages will be accelerated in the proposal so that in 2019 only 25% of interest rates will be deductible. Under the current low interest rate conditions, this change would not seriously weaken the household of the housing debtors. The change to be made is of fundamental importance in that it puts owner-occupied and rented housing on a more equal footing. The previous system has supported the growth of mortgage loans and the increase in housing prices, as the opposition representative, Aalto, has just pointed out. Mr President! Our total tax rate is about 44% relative to GDP. In future, our overall objective must be to ensure that the tax burden on citizens as a whole does not increase, at least from the current very high level of international comparison, in order to keep the wheels of the economy moving. The necessary change in the current situation is that the conditions for economic activity are improved, in particular through a gradual reduction in income tax. The current indebtedness of the State does, of course, set a certain framework and a tight margin for the implementation of the income tax relief schedule. In the long term, however, I believe that it makes sense to make it possible to increase work in Finland by means of a lighter income tax. Mr President! The correct development is also that the State compensates municipalities for the tax losses resulting from the proposal in full. This has not always been the case in the past years, which has also made it difficult for municipal decision-makers. Finally, I would like to say that, based on the arguments I have put forward, I support the fiscal policy line chosen by the government and I believe that it will also enable better employment developments in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u183	Mr. Speaker! Congressman Heinäluoma reproached me for remembering what happened ten years ago. You're the one who went back 23 years. So now, of course, it is possible for the old men — I fix: you are young, but I am old — to remember the past. And so much do I remember the time of the Aho government that it also, as the Sipilä government now did, received a completely bankrupt economy from its predecessor Holkeri-Liikea government. Everything was falling apart, and then reforms were started, and in the government of Aho, which I was with President Pekkarinen in the Tax Policy Group, we prepared the reform of income and wealth taxes, the VAT reform, the property tax reform and also the reform of capital and corporation tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u194	Mr President! If this little younger representative can join this history club club now. — However, the issue remains a little unclear when this is the subject of this scale of income tax. This historic change, to which Mr Kankaanniemi has now referred, is precisely the fact that the taxation of pensioners and employees is now being differentiated. Now that there is justification for this differentiation by increasing employment and making work worthwhile, these are certainly objectives which we all agree on, but I would ask why, for what reason, is it not from the employee if the taxation of the pensioner were to be reduced? Would it not also support employment if the reduction in pension income were increased? If we are thinking of domestic demand, I think we have quite a few traders living by the fact that pensioners are the ones who use those services. Pensioners are the ones who maintain that domestic demand and use these services. In that sense, it would also be sensible from an economic point of view not to make this differentiation. On the other hand, it makes social sense, but it also makes economic sense, because it would also bring the consumer demand to our home market, which we really do need in the home market. In this respect, it is really unclear why, somehow, it would be out of these employees if we were to do justly and also touch that part of the reduction in pension income and make the reductions that we are doing now for employees so that this difference, which you are doing now, can be eliminated. The fact is that it will remain there for a long time. Although you are now promising here, if you compare these promises with these previous promises, it can be said that this will hardly change in the last four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u196	Mr President! There's been quite a lot of recollection here, and that recollection of Mr. Heinäluoma makes me think too. Perhaps with regard to the centre, I can make up for Mr Pekkar, a very memorable Vice-President, whose lips have now been sealed when he carries out a demanding task for the President of Parliament. 22 years ago, from the beginning of 1993, this very important tax reform of capital income and companies was carried out, in which rates were calculated very significantly. They were at their highest in capital income of 60 percent, and indeed dropped to 25. Then the companies, there were all kinds of dividend deductions but went up to 60 to 70 per cent. This was a big change. Reduced tax rates and then reduced reserves accordingly, as they actually became quite unnecessary in that situation. After all, at the time of the recession in the early 1990s, three things were actually up to them. At the time 91 and 92 two devaluations were carried out, which varied slightly in relation to different currencies but typically ranged from 35 % to 40 % in total.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u201	Mr President! Listening to the speech of the Kangasniemi of the Finns living in Peru, all that came to mind was that now I feel bad and have a bad conscience.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u214	Mr President! I, too, would have taken up this speech by Mr Kankaanniemi on a change of line. So if this is a change of line, then it is a change of policy for Finns. If, indeed, your view is that these cosmetic changes, which are now being made to capital taxation and also to solidarity tax, are, as it were, sufficient for us to involve the high incomes in these austerity efforts, then it is quite different from what was said in the speeches that were heard from the people of Peru in the run-up to the elections. But then I would have intervened in this capital tax, which was also raised by Mr Kankaanniemi. In other words, capital taxation and dividend taxation are an excellent tool if the government really wants – as the government says at least at the speech level – to do – to involve high-income Finns in these government-initiated efforts. After all, we are currently having a dividend party in Finland, despite the constant talk of how the economy is poor and how the economy is going: we are constantly taking out these income transfers, which has already been given to employers and what this government now wants to give more, and the Finns are obviously also in favour of this line. So if you want to involve the Finns who spend these dividend parties in these savings projects, these do not only apply to low-income Finns living on social security, then I would urge the government to consider this dividend tax and capital tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u215	Mr. Speaker! Mr Heinäluoma, you strongly criticised the fact that the Aho government set the corporate tax rate at 25%. How do you explain the fact that, as President of the Socialist Group on Economic Policy, I understand during the last term that you and the then finance minister, Mr Urplainen, were exporting corporate tax from 24.5% to 20%? What is the logic in that you were quite unilaterally prepared by a voluntary government decision — the dictates of the Social Democrats in fact — to reduce the corporation tax so enormously without any value for money and now you are barking at what has sometimes been done in the depths of the recession 20 years ago? These dividend celebrations, which Mr Andersson raised: Indeed, it has been a dividend party and it will certainly be in the coming spring. And one important reason for this is that the Social Democrats drastically reduced the corporate tax rate, from 24.5 to 20%, leaving companies considerable money to pay dividends to American pension funds and other timers. What's the logic here? You were in the pocket of last season's delegation, Mr Viitanen, as Minister. You were one to promote this corporate tax reduction according to the will of the Coalition Party and the EK, as was the case at the time of the asset tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u218	Mr President! Having listened to Mr Kankaanniemi's comments on this history section, I can understand why he does not vote for the demarcation. If the demarcation list were really there, I wouldn't be voting either. But when I see what you're getting at here,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u235	Mr President! I must say that Mr Heinäluoma was partly right when he said that in the government programme it was decided to continue this solidarity tax only at the level defined by the Social Democrats. Now the government is proposing an extension of the solidarity tax and an extension of the scope of the solidarity tax to the solidarity tax defined by the Social Democrats. You'd think the Social Democrats would be happy with this. But then...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u242	Mr President! A little confused, I have been following this issue from Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Kankaanniemi's quartet and archaeological studies. I do not believe that the economy of this country is now improving, that in this Chamber you are arguing about what happened in the '90s or the '80s or ten years ago. This country will be made clear by the fact that we will achieve a balanced economy and a growth path for the economy, that it will create new jobs in this country, that is, jobs, that is, more tax revenue and, with tax revenues, the good welfare services that we have had and discussed in many of the previous points here today. I don't think taxing this country will save this country. If this had happened, the taxes would probably have been raised to 90% if the Social Democrats were in power and, of course, we should live in paradise. But by taxing this country will not be saved, and that is why we are now reducing the tax burden on labour so that we can create more work in this country and make work more profitable in all situations. Through this I believe that the economy will be made a growth path and tax revenues will grow and thus these services of the welfare society will be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u243	Mr. Speaker! When the Finance Minister, Eero Heinäluoma, drove down this wealth tax in 2006, it did indeed result in an election defeat for the Social Democrats in 2007 and a major change in life for Heinäluoma itself as a result of it — just as Jutta Urplainen drove the drastic reduction in corporate tax rates last season, and this happened to her and the Social Democrats lost the election. Yes, this policy is important and precisely this kind of policy, which is contrary to the values and ideas of the party, when I see that the priority of the Social Democrats is not to promote the interests of the EK. But we are now in this situation and, as Mr Heinonen said, it may not be worth considering the past now. The handprint of the Finns Party can be seen, among other things, in this abolition of Yle-tax and in the fact that people with low and middle incomes are given this reduction in their earnings and, as a result, in the management of employment, which is one of the most important things. The abolition or combination of housing allowance for pensioners was withdrawn on the initiative and requirement of the Finns of Finland. Similarly, the cutbacks in the medical fees were halved. This is how we recognise that such changes are being made along the way. And I think that the government is responsible when it takes the messages into account, for example, the messages of our parliamentary group. For example, I was very active in the issue of housing allowance for pensioners, and the result came. This is an extremely important issue for the most deprived pensioners. The Social Democrats are indeed responsible for the basis on which we are now working, that is, the level of the various taxes that we are currently on and which the government is now blackmailing. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Now the speaker should be moved to the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u246	That concludes the speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u247	Mr President! The question is that when more money is needed to balance the economy against the situation in the last parliamentary term, then new measures must be taken. The idea is not that taxes should be as high as possible or that public expenditure should be as low as possible. It is not a guiding principle, it is a guiding principle that we need to balance the budget, and this task is already greater with the information before the elections than it was estimated two or four years ago. And when you have to get new income, you have to see where you get that new income. The decisions of the last parliamentary term will then not be enough. And this is also the case here on the capital tax side — or on the financial taxation side. Well, then Mr Kankaanniemi failed to answer these questions in relation to decision-making here and now, that is, the question of whether, in this matter of university donation reduction, it would be appropriate to go to a system where this deduction would be made from tax, no result. I hope, however, that Mr Kankaanniemi will answer now that Mr Viitanen has raised this issue and has clearly taken an interest in the position of the Finns. In social terms, it would be fairer if the same euro-denominated reduction of the same amount were made for both a master's degree and a millionaire, but this model of yours favours a millionaire. I expect that at some point this answer will be heard, when this is repeated enough. And then it comes to this that, yes, in these two areas, you were happy to take into account the opposition's aspects too, namely this issue of this solidarity tax and then the question of capital income taxation, but so small that we do not consider it sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u248	Mr President! Here Mr Heinonen said that taxation will not save anything, and I quite agree that it will certainly not be saved, and that is why I would like to ask you, Mr Heinonen, why on earth do you want to tax pensioners more than employees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u253	Mr President! After all, the starting point of this solidarity tax, EUR 72300 a year, is quite low internationally. After all, other countries usually talk about EUR 200,000 per year. In addition to fairness, which in itself is very important, the functioning of the economy is also important, and the tax section, for example, discussed whether this high taxation of earned income is already a little too difficult, if you think that there are talented, internationalized young people who can also leave this country, if you go too far in such a relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u254	Mr President! I wanted to take the floor again to underline what the Socialist proposal, for example, is about when we talk about this solidarity tax. We are concerned that the government, on the other hand, speaks beautifully, that now the solidarity tax is coming, and while you are lowering the limit, you are acting in such a way that your income reduction model is such that, in fact, it leads with very large incomes to a tax reduction of this kind,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u258	Mr President! Here are a few questions, and we'll answer them now. Firstly, Mr Viitanen spoke about this development cooperation. True Finns have their own development model, and it involves this right to deduct. I spoke to Minister Toivaka some time ago and told him to reform development cooperation, complete restructuring, and bring it as a communication or report to Parliament. In that, of course, our objective in the negotiations is to ensure that our model is implemented and that this right of deduction becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u261	Mr President! I very sincerely thank Mr Kankaanniemi for his answers. They represented a good culture of discussion in my opinion that when asked, they will be answered, and then they showed that there are alternatives here, including this university donation reduction, that this is not a single truth in politics. Then it is worth saying that we actually agree on one thing in this tax debate after all, and that is that there is a need to reduce taxes on labour. We do not have any disagreement about this, we all agree with this idea, and in fact I would venture to guess that disagreement only concerns whether the pensioner should receive the same tax benefit as the employee receives or not. So that is it, and we are prepared to give this tax advantage to everyone, in accordance with the promises made before the parliamentary elections, to the same treatment of the employee and the pensioner. Then we will have some otherwise different proposals and ideas on taxation, because we want a slightly broader tax base, we want the financial sector to bear responsibility, and we believe that under such a difficult recession and the difficult economic crisis of the state we can take a little more from capital income, and we would consider it more socially justifiably than making a large number of cuts, which then affect people on low incomes. It is therefore agreed that there is indeed a need to reduce the tax burden on labour. There's no disagreement about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u262	Mr President! It is valuable for me to be able to say the last word in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u265	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u266	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to introduce a new law on court fees to replace the 1993 Law on fees levied by courts and certain judicial authorities. The proposal is therefore an increase in the fees to be charged to the courts. This is a fundamental reform because the level of court fees will be raised in all courts and the use of these fees will be extended. The reform must therefore be assessed in the light of the availability of justice and Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The main objective of the reform is to increase the revenue of the courts and to improve the steering effect of payments so as to reduce the number of cases in courts where the interest in legal protection is low. This will make it possible to better target the Court’s resources in cases where there is a great need for legal protection. The increase in court fees is part of the judicial reform programme for the years 2013 to 2025. The proposed increases in payments are quite large. The field of pay-per-view groups is also expanding. For example, tax appeals become subject to a charge. However, according to Article 5, the most important social issues, matters relating to the self-determination of persons — i.e. when society exercises coercive powers — and certain other categories of persons whose freedom of establishment is sufficiently justified — would remain free of charge. Article 7 define the exemption from the fee, including under the Legal Aid Act, where there is a finding of insecurity or, in the event of a manifestly disproportionate charge, the payment may not be imposed. In assessing the proposal, the Committee on Legal Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the level of court fees has not been increased for decades. However, in the early 1990s, for example, the costs of courts have more than doubled. Furthermore, the proposed fees are not particularly high in terms of international comparisons. Furthermore, according to the constitutional expert's assessment, the proposed court fees are not problematic in terms of size and scope in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, the Legal Aid Committee has paid particular attention to the fact that, according to Article 4 of the Legal Aid Act, the grant of legal aid exempts the beneficiary from the obligation to pay, inter alia, the processing fee and the delivery book fee in the relevant authority. A full exemption from the processing fee is also granted to those who pay a share of the legal aid. In addition, the provision of Article 7(2) of the proposed Law on Court Payments allows, in an individual case, for non-determination if the levying of the levy is manifestly unreasonable. Article 9 of the proposed law also contains a provision on the effect of the outcome of the case on the recovery of the charge. The article contains provisions in a situation where no legal fee is charged in the event of a change in the decision in favour of the appellant. Then, Mr President, a little bit of this possible advance payment system. The Government's proposal states that the possibility of levying court fees in advance has been examined during the preparation of the proposal. However, at this stage, it has not yet been proposed to introduce a system of advance payments, inter alia because of the fact that the current jurisdictional systems are at the end of their life cycle. However, the Legal Affairs Committee considers that the advance payment system would enhance the steering effect of payments compared to the ex post invoicing currently in place. It is therefore justified that the introduction of the advance payment system should continue to be examined in the future. It is clear that the possible introduction of an advance payment must not become an obstacle to access to justice. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights was not unanimous but contains an objection and also an objection with a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u267	Mr President! If the government's proposal is made, the court fees will rise significantly. For example, the highest trial fee in the District Court will increase from EUR 196 to EUR 500. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights states in its report that this is a fundamental reform, because the level of court fees will be raised in all courts and the scope of the fees will be extended. The increase in charges is justified by the fact that the level of charges would be closer to the cost value of dealing with cases. Large increases in payments are also justified by the fact that their steering effect would be more effective. But what are the cases for which the steering effect is to be used? So, according to the government, do we have groups of people seeking justice in vain and on bad grounds? Is it not rather a problem that, by raising charges, the threshold for people to apply for justice will certainly increase? The government's proposal states, as it were, that an increase in payments may undermine legal certainty, but the impact assessment of the increases in payments will otherwise be far too thin. However, I myself am starting to assume that increasing the number of courts' incomes cannot take precedence over ensuring people's legal protection in the explanatory statement. In addition, the committee's expert consultation drew attention to the fact that, particularly in market law cases, the EUR 2000 legal fee may be relatively high, particularly for SMEs in some cases. Mr President! For example, the government proposal states that restraining orders will be subject to a charge in the future. There is a problematic argument in the government's proposal that restraining orders are often carried out with little consideration and harassment. This is a strong argument since the issue has not been systematically investigated. Payment will raise the threshold for applying for a restraining order, which is a matter that has a strong impact on people's legal security. For example, in his opinion to the committee, Amnesty states that the restraining order prevents serious crimes against life and health. Mr President! A lot of restraining orders are being withdrawn. This is one of the reasons why the government's proposal wants to make them subject to a fee and thus improves the so-called steering effect. However, this shows that the situation regarding restraining orders is unknown and the steering effect is not considered from the applicant’s point of view. In situations such as domestic violence, the victim of violence often withdraws the application due to a traumatic situation. The extension of charges to restraining orders thus exacerbates the position of already vulnerable people. In the light of these arguments, I will submit at second reading that the legislative proposals will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u268	Mr President! In Finland, we have a variety of investments stuck at some EUR 3 billion. It has been discussed and suggested that there should be some sort of complaint fee, that in particular there should not be a chain of complaints to discourage investment. But some of these investments are therefore in the licensing process, but also in the various courts and courts. This is one thing that requires some correction, and I welcome the fact that the government has now also started to increase legal fees. As stated in the committee's explanatory statement, the main objective of the reform is to increase the revenue from the courts and to improve the steering effect of payments so as to reduce the number of cases where the interest in legal protection is low in the courts. The chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, pointed out this pre-payment approach, and I am very much in favour of it, so that the system would prefer to operate through advance payments rather than in this way, which is what we have to present and introduce at least for the time being. And these, which emerged that part will continue to remain free of charge, are also justified. As stated in the committee's report, the successful complainant, for example, may, in this question of market law, claim legal costs from the opposing party, including the issuing authority, and the legal fee is typically part of the legal costs. So this works exactly the way it should be, that is, when that leads to the desired result from the point of view of this author, then he has the right to get these payments back.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u269	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 9/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u270	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 9/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u271	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 1/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u272	Mr President! This legislative change has become more topical than in this rapidly changing refugee situation, in the case of asylum seekers, and this is a change. After all, these decisions have been centralised in the Helsinki Administrative Court, and now there is an amendment that, when three judges are now required, two would be sufficient in the future to deal with these issues of appeal authorisation. One might well ask — and I hope the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, can also answer that — how, for example, there was a debate in the committee on whether there could be a model of a single judge. Or was it even considered that in these matters it could be stated that there is no appeal, that is, a ban on the authorisation of appeal, which is what we have in place in certain other cases? Personally, I would support this ban on the right to appeal and trust that our judicial system will make these decisions at lower court levels with sufficient precision and certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u273	Mr President! In short, I am presenting this point. Indeed, this government proposal states that amendments to the Supreme Administrative Law would be made specifically in relation to this quorum. In such cases, in the case of asylum, international protection or other related matters, residence permit or removal, an entry ban, there would be two judges instead of three judges in the case of an appeal permit, but if the two judges could not reach an agreement, this composition would then be extended. This was a very unanimous report in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So we said that this was a very good thing and, above all, we thought that this reform would certainly increase the efficiency of the Supreme Administrative Court in dealing with asylum matters and thus contribute to greater legal protection for asylum seekers and international protection by speeding up the process. I mean, everyone's legal protection will be improved. As far as Mr Heinonen's question is concerned, it is already under way in the Ministry of Justice, on a model basis, that when it comes to dealing with these issues which I have mentioned in relation to asylum matters, that decision by the administrative court should no longer be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court at all. But this is only in preparation at the Ministry, which is probably what the government's proposal will be at some point. The same is true of the fact that, in addition to the Helsinki Administrative Law, two other administrative courts will deal with these asylum issues and related issues, that these activities will be speeded up and that the legal security of all involved will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u274	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u275	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u276	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 10/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u277	Mr President! The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs is not here at the moment, but I would like to say that the Committee on Economic Affairs has been unanimous on this proposal and stresses that the legal basis for the creation of Finpro Oy is now being created and that such a legal basis is being created. At the same time, this operator comes to the same line as we have, there is finnvera and there is a technology research centre and industrial investment and so on, to this family as a fully state-owned and public service provider, whose assembly has been necessary but also the fact that such paid consulting has been moved away from this, which is of course quite reasonable and appropriate. What I simply wanted to draw attention to in this excellent proposal in itself is that this should of course serve to provide capital for Finland, to promote our exports, to promote tourism, but, above all, to assist small and medium-sized enterprises with the opening of a one-stop shop, to internationalisation. We have a very large number of SMEs, medium-sized growth-oriented companies that lack the leap that is called internationalisation, and with these measures, which this is also now offering, we would very much have to promote precisely such projects. Mr President! I just wanted to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has unanimously supported this, and I just wanted to emphasise these points here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u278	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 11/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u279	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 24 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u280	The 14th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 24 November 2015. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the fourth draft amending budget: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 12 noon on Tuesday 24 November 2015. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments have been proposed to the proposal for an add-on budget, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-19-ps-67.u281	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 20 November 2015.
