ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Paavo Arhinmäki and 26 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government on the transparency and regularity of the preparation of legislation under the direction of the Minister of Finance and on the transmission of correct information to Parliament. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 11/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate will be opened by Mr Puumala, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u3	Madam President! On the Committee's report: In the government proposal 80 it is therefore a question of amending the law on early childhood education and the law on child home care and private care so that each child will have a subjective right to receive early childhood education 20 hours a week instead of the current 40 hours. This means that children of families where one or both parents are at home on parental or child-care leave or unemployed would in future be entitled to part-time early education. However, a child is entitled to full-time early childhood education if the child’s parents or other guardians work full-time or full-time students, active entrepreneurs or are in their own work. The child would also be entitled to 20 hours of early childhood education if necessary because of part-time or temporary employment, participation in employment-promoting services, rehabilitation or other similar reasons. Under the proposed law, early childhood education should always be organised at the current level if it is necessary due to the development of the child, the need for support or the circumstances of the family or otherwise in the best interests of the child. The right to early childhood education is estimated to become part-time full-time by 6.7 per cent of children. This change is related to the Government Programme’s objectives to reduce the functions and standards of municipalities and to generate savings in public finances. President! The Constitutional Committee has issued its own opinion on this government proposal. The opinion draws attention to three fundamental constitutional issues. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has taken these into account in its own report. First of all, the right of children to social security and equality. This is done when each child is guaranteed the right to full - time care when the child’s best interests so require. This is what the committee stresses in its report. The second point is the power to adopt a regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that the early childhood education law contains a number of powers to adopt regulations, some of which do not fulfil the conditions laid down by the committee for the adoption of regulations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers it necessary for the Committee on Education to include in its report a statement obliging the Government to carry out an overall review of the powers for the adoption of a regulation in the early childhood education law. And that is exactly what the Committee on Education and Culture is doing. The report contains a statement: an overall review of the powers to adopt the regulation must be carried out and consideration will also be given to the inclusion in the law of the personnel involved in care, education and child-to-child care in day-care and family day care. The third point made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was the issue of privacy. The Government’s proposal provides for the right of the Social Insurance Institution to inform the municipality of matters which may affect the scope of the child’s right of early childhood education, without prejudice to confidentiality and other restrictions on access to information. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the information provided for in the proposal by the Social Insurance Institution is confidential and partly sensitive personal data. That is why the Committee on Education proposes to amend Article 24(3) of the draft law so that the right to information is linked to the requirement of necessity. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, such a change was a prerequisite for the legislative proposal to be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law was adopted. President! A few of the comments made by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I will try to summarise them in three points: First of all, implementation and follow-up of the reform: the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is concerned about the possible impact of the reform on children whose family situation is detrimental to the development and health of the child for economic or health reasons. In this respect, the criticism of the impact assessment has been widespread in the expert hearings and also justified in many places. The report therefore provides for an overall assessment by the Government of the impact of the various reforms on both children and gender equality, and that this assessment will be taken into account in the reform of the early childhood education law. Secondly, the committee stresses the primacy of the child's interests. This is also reflected in the Government's proposal, which emphasises the consideration of the individual needs of the child and the priority of the child's interests in assessing the need for service. These changes should not lead to a change in the place of early childhood education for a child who has started early childhood education. In addition, early childhood education must always be organised at the current level if it is necessary due to the development of the child, the need for support or the circumstances of the family. The third key observation is the continuation of the reform of the early childhood education law. Because that's what we need. In the last parliamentary term, the early childhood education law was finally adopted and must continue to be taken forward, as is intended. A second phase of the early childhood education law is needed. According to the opinion of the Committee on Education, the reform will increase the need to develop the content of early childhood education in order to meet the demands of society for families and the related needs of families. Further preparation of the early childhood education law needs to be re-assessed, including the reform currently under discussion as part of the extensive development of early childhood education services. Consideration should also be given to possible incentives to increase participation in early childhood education in further preparation of legislation. President! End: The key question for the success of the future and reform is how to use this minimum 20 hours of early childhood education. This is something that the committee has also focused on. In day-care centres, that 20 hours of early childhood education is, according to a number of expert estimates, an adequate amount in itself to achieve the objectives of the Early childhood Education Act. However, it is important to make use of these hours in a sensible way for the child. The committee's expert hearings have strongly highlighted the beneficial importance of regular, daily and week-long early childhood education as a continuation of the child's development cycle from early childhood education to adult education. In the Committee's view, the concept of early childhood education needs to be clarified and its content and objectives drawn up in different ways. The Committee on Education therefore considers that the best solutions are those that provide children with regular early childhood education on five days a week. The Committee on Education believes that, following these considerations and changes that highlight the development of early childhood education and the priority of the child’s interests, the Government’s proposal can be taken forward in a sensible way. Although the subjective right to early childhood education is limited, every child will continue to be guaranteed access to quality and growth-friendly early childhood education. The report contains an objection to the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u4	Mr President! This bill puts children in a flagrantly unequal position. The practical consequences of the limitation of the right to early childhood education will vary decisively depending on how the 20-hour right to early childhood education is implemented in different municipalities. It is already known that some municipalities will not be subject to a delimitation and some municipalities will be subject to a very strict restriction of justice. Therefore, equality between children and families living in different municipalities is at risk. The limitation of the right to early childhood education increases the group sizes of day-care centres, as the number of children present only for part of the day increases, as the number of part-time children is higher, one per 13 children as compared to only 8 children per full-time carer. From the perspective of children’s rights, it is highly questionable that the size of the child’s group varies according to the length of time a child spends in a day care centre: up to 39 children in a part-time group and 24 in others. Inequality is growing. The government's proposal seeks savings. If the limitation of the right to early childhood education is implemented in such a way that the need for more than 20 hours of early childhood education is based mainly on the announcement of the child’s parents, as the Government’s proposal implicitly states, the limitation of the right to early childhood education has now been presented in vain and the government’s desired savings will not arise. On the other hand, if the definition and decision-making of justice takes place in municipal administration, it will significantly increase bureaucracy and the consideration of the authorities in municipalities and will therefore not generate the cost savings required. On the other hand, as we noticed after the recession in the 1990s, the corrective costs may be high in later years. Mr President! The bill also weakens the child’s peer relations and opportunities to meet the child’s individual needs for support. The extent of the positive effects of early childhood education depends in particular on how often and how many hours the child participates in early childhood education, how regular and continuous the child’s involvement is, how permanent the child’s relationships are, and how well the activities meet the child’s needs. Part-time care leads to a change in groups, and part-week care means that it is no longer possible to ensure the sustainability and regularity of early childhood education. The proposal also threatens to weaken the child’s involvement in the group. Irregular action, which takes place a few days a week, means that the child does not feel involved but may be exposed to outside experience, exclusion and bullying. Continuous changes in children’s groups also expose children to stress and affect permanent relationships between children. It is also a poor pedagogical solution. In his opinion Jukka Mäkelä, Child Psychiatrist of THL, drew attention to the fact that the proposal will reduce the socio-emotional well-being of Finnish children and start a cycle of exclusion for many children. With the new law, children’s groups that are central to the child’s socio-emotional development become more unstable. The number of part-time children in groups is increasing and some groups are made up of these children in particular. In both situations, groups of children become variable when children come and leave at random times. This increases the number of everyday social relationships of a child, which puts a strain on the child’s developing sense of community. According to some of the expert opinions received by the committee, early childhood education lasting 20 weeks may, if well implemented, be sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Early Childhood Education Act. From the point of view of the best interests of the child, it would then be better if 20 hours of early childhood education were in principle arranged several days a week. This would allow early childhood education to take place in a way that meets the objectives of the law. Early childhood education in part-weeks should only be used in exceptional cases because it does not achieve the objectives set for the child’s growth, development and learning. In committee, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats proposed an amendment to the law containing this idea, but unfortunately this did not happen. The best way would be to provide free, daily early childhood education four hours a day for all over three years of age. Since the fees for day care cover only 12% to 15% of the costs, these could be charged for paid afternoon care, in which the majority would still be involved. At the same time, it would be possible to develop early childhood education as part of our education system. Mr President! High-quality early childhood education prevents exclusion. The change now proposed increases the inequality between children and sufferers are particularly vulnerable children who need support, such as children from unemployed parents and parents from immigrant backgrounds. According to experts, family support for parenting is the most important protection against child abuse. In the future, some families will be deprived of the support that day care has given parents in a key educational task. If families do not receive support, the risks of neglect and abuse of children will increase. These are among the most significant factors in Finland that endanger the healthy development of children, according to experts. While full-time care will continue to be available for justified reasons, it will nevertheless raise the threshold for applying for full-time care for those families that would benefit most from it. Parents want to take care of themselves and fear being branded, even if they need support. In view of the above, I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u5	Let's have a debut in a minute. Let us have a few speeches first.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u6	Mr President! It can now be said that more than 90% of experts have been very critical and negative about this government proposal. Frankly, during my long-term political activity, I do not remember a situation in which the government's proposal has received such a harsh sentence. To this end, I would like to draw attention to the views and opinions of such experts. I know that we — and you all — appreciate the work of the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, do we not? So this government proposal and the cuts in early childhood education are harmful and shortsighted. The limitation of the right to early childhood education, the reduction of the number of educators and the increase in group sizes are incompatible with the objective of strengthening preventive work and early support for basic services. So, what does the equality councilman say? These experts, whom I am raising here, therefore consider this matter to be experts, experts in the lives of children. I could have gone through the very critical statements made by the OAJ, the Teachers' Trade Union, the kindergarten teachers, but I know that many of you have the idea that, for example, these people are involved in some way, so they do not look at things objectively enough. I personally do not think so; I am used to appreciating the people I have mentioned very much. But I would like to think that my enlightened colleagues appreciate the statements made by the Central Union for Child Welfare, the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and the Ombudsman for Children. And finally, what does the Ombudsman for Gender Equality say? You want to hear it? Of course. The government's proposal has carried out an impact assessment on equality — and this is therefore positive — but these gender impact assessments have not been given any weight, even if the effects of the proposal appear to conflict with the purpose of the Equality Act. So this is actually targeted at women, young mothers, from two sources of income, with a hard grip, because it is reducing
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u9	Next, Mr Arhinmäki, and then we move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u10	Madam President! According to many estimates, early childhood education is the best preventive action. It ensures that children are not excluded from society at an early stage, that potential problems are identified, that they are addressed and that solutions can be found. According to many estimates, if seen in the long term, the euro invested in early childhood education will return to society in EUR 7 when it is possible to address the fact that there will be no spillover effects. Madam President! This is a proposal to limit the right of children to early childhood education on the basis of the labour market status of their parents. I would like to emphasise that children's rights are now being restricted on the basis of the labour market status of their parents. Can, in fact, be more, worse, more divided, bringing children into a class society than sharing them at an early stage on the basis of parental labour market status. This leads, as has been said in previous speeches, to the fact that many of the children who perhaps most need early childhood education, full-time early childhood education, may be excluded. It is good to note that the vast majority of children who have one parent at home are not in full-time day care but are already taking part-time care. But this is about limiting the freedom of parents. The aim here is to limit the possibility for parents to choose the best solution for their children. Last season, I remember the talks where tears in the eyes of, for example, the representatives of the city centre defended the family’s freedom to choose the best solution for the child. With this motion, you are restricting this freedom. Mr President! With regard to this law, as, unfortunately, not many other government proposals have had a proper impact assessment, the impact of this on equality, on the position of women. There are no proper estimates here of the extent to which this creates bureaucracy in the municipalities, bureaucracy for people who are going into today's labour market, where jobs are being split up, shredded, part-time, and whose labour market status is constantly changing. This creates enormous bureaucracy. Madam President! This is also about working conditions for kindergarten teachers and nannies. At the same time, the government of forced laws is cutting the salaries of women-dominated sectors, particularly those with low and middle incomes. These surgeries are particularly intense for kindergarten teachers and nannies. At the same time, the government is in a regulation to increase group sizes and is now in the process of legislating on a full-time subjective day care right. My question is, when these are highly educated, skilled, motivated but low-paid workers: what is the government's answer to how they will be able to do this important work for society in the future? Madam President! At the grassroots level, at the level where the effects of decisions are known, there has been a revolt against these decisions. Several large cities have already decided in advance that they do not limit children's subjective day care rights despite this law: Tampere, Riihimäki, Kotka, Hämeenlinna, Valkeakoski, just to name a few.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u13	Now we've opened up the debatables. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u14	Mr President! Municipalities have the right to decide what to decide, and municipal elections are for municipal decisions to be taken at municipal level and on the basis of their value choices. The present proposal does not force the municipalities to do what they have to do, but those decisions are made by municipality, and this is good. The right to early childhood education will continue to exist for everyone. What is important is that we can actually develop early childhood education towards early childhood education, after the vision of previous care. What emerges above all here is how important it is that we have skilled staff in our early education. It is a very good thing that we will also have more skilled people, and this side will also be strengthened by the government over the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u15	Mr President! This is also a good example of a savings law which, however, has been able to take account of the fact that the consequences are not unreasonable. This example of Mr Arhinmäki from Helsinki only tells us that we have municipalities that can certainly afford to keep the services at the current level, but we do not put a bag on our heads, that we only weaken the finances of the municipalities without giving them the opportunity to adapt. During the previous government, approximately EUR 1.5 billion was cut from the local government economy compared to today and increased the responsibilities of municipalities, but there was no reduction in the functions of municipalities to be able to decide how to cope with this economy. This government gives the municipalities the opportunity to consider how to make savings, and here I understand that none of the children who are affected by this subjective 20-hour day care right will be treated without care, because the condition for them is that they have parents or one of the parents who can take care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u16	Mr President! Representative Vanhanen pointed out this savings effect in local government finances. However, all studies show the importance of early childhood education for children. In committee, we heard, among other things, a statement about Sweden, which has now not been very successful in these Pisa studies, that a clear study has been found that children who have participated in early childhood education have also been clearly more successful in the Pisa studies in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u19	Madam Speaker! Mr Gustafsson is right in himself that early childhood education is extremely important and there are indeed studies of how many times it produces itself back. But in this debate, one thing is often forgotten: it does not in itself guarantee that the child will be taken to day care, where the nurses do good, important and valuable work and, of course, there will be a group of friends and a group of people. That does not in itself mean that the output-input ratio is, for example, that early childhood education is 7 times self-productive, but that experts assume that it must be of high quality early childhood education, and that is why it is extremely important how that 20 hours is spent in the day-care centre in order to achieve high-quality early childhood education. This is something that is often missing from that debate and I therefore wanted to highlight it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u20	Madam President! Finnish early childhood education is of very high quality, and when Mr Puumala said that care should be taken to ensure that it is of high quality, that these results are obtained, the question is: is this how the quality of early childhood education improves, that the regulation increases group sizes and, on the other hand, cuts the possibility for everyone to participate in early childhood education as parents, family, look after the best interests of the child? Madam President! This is where Congressman Niikko said it's in the best interests of the child to be home. Is it the representative of Niikko who decides for all the children in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u23	Mr President! The SDP, the opposition has marched experts to convince the government that home is a curse, as if parents could not care for their children at home without them being in day care 40 hours a week. In my experience, if you ask your children, the child wants to be home first if your parents are home, and it is not appropriate to take them to day care for 40 hours. Yes, 20 hours of early childhood education will be enough in principle, and this is the government's line that those who need it for 40 hours will also get it. Mr President! I also wonder about this guilt and the creation of this fear, which is the line the opposition continues to take. These are the terms used here to say that a child is exposed to exclusion and bullying if he is not allowed to spend 40 hours in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u24	Mr President! This government proposal is a typical example of such envy populism, where disadvantaged children are discriminated against because of populism about the labour market position of their parents. Somehow it is implied that if the child’s situation is such that he or she should be taken to day care, even if the parent is not working at that time, that would be a matter for which the child should be discriminated against. It's completely unreasonable. When I have spoken to child care professionals — and Mr Gustafsson rightly raised these statements — they unequivocally defend the interests of children as being able to choose for themselves how long the child will be in day care. And how can you distinguish the pedagogical part, divide the day into different sections? I have heard that for immigrant children, for example, the education is that when you go out into the yard all together, everyone together says that now you put your shoe on, it is shown that your foot there, here is the shoe, here is the hand, you put your clothes on, that is, all the time you do pedagogical education, you practice the language in everything you do. Then, if these children, young people from immigrant backgrounds who also need integration to be able to be in day care together with others, are limited to being there only for part of the time, is it not indicative and discriminatory, and can they do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u25	Mr President! If you just take the child’s point of view and also the perspective that the family really and truly still has the opportunity to make a choice, according to experts, if you think only of the child’s point of view, the early education goals can also be achieved in that twenty hours a week. A child does not necessarily need eight hours a day to achieve these goals of early childhood education. And what is wrong, I can ask myself, is that at home too you are well and trust in that parenting? This government has also wanted to support parenthood by taking home help, for example, and supporting home life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u26	Värderade Talman! Det lönar sig att komma ihåg att en överväldigande majoritet av sakkunniga har ställt sig critiska eller rent av mycket critiska till lagförslaget. Och många var de sakkunniga som påtalade risken för polarisering och stigmatisering av fabillionna. Man var rädd för att vägen till heldagsvård i framtide enbart går via barnskydget. Så rai får det inte bli, tvärtom: om familen eller föräldrarna ber om heldagsvård ska detta vara öjligt på basis av det är behovet som man upplever i familen. Jag tycker också att det är sorgligt att regeringen nu frångår principen om barnets rätt till god småbarnspedagogik. Sakkunniga påtalade också att den dagliga, regelbundna småbarnspedagogicen är oerhört viktig. Sedan skulle jag grain påtala det rai som utskottet satte till i en kläm, det vill säga att vi behöver en utredning om alla de nedskärningar och åtgärder som nu riktar sig mot Barnfamilerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u27	Mr President! Somehow I feel bad that next year you will be seeking savings of 6.6 million, which is why the historic decision of the recession of the 1990s, which gave all children subjective day care rights, can be abolished in the name of savings. I think it would be fairer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you would then say that this is the way to save money, but the fact that you explain that this is in the best interests of those children whose subjective day care rights are being cut and restricted does not seem to me to be right. And now that you are already preparing for the next reply, I would like to know why the committee did not change the old dead letter in the law, which allows 39 part-time children to be present in one part-time group. When one such group comes to Finland, it means that we have full-time children in another group 24
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u28	Mr President! Yes, it has been clearly stated here that this is a savings law. The aim of this is to save, and it is done in a way that does not lead to excesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u29	Mr President! I'm sure this conversation has gotten pretty banal. At the same time, budgetary decisions are taken in the municipalities. In Espoo last week it was decided that group sizes are not going to increase, but on the limitation of subjective day care rights, we will not take decisions until next year. And we also saw a play in the Espoo Council yesterday that was voted on whether experts could be consulted
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u35	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, early childhood education is a superior investment in the growth and development of children, and cuts that cause even one child’s right to early childhood education to fail are absurd. This bill restricts the right of children to early childhood education, but each child has, in principle, the right to early childhood education, and experts have said in the hearing that this can also ensure that the children receive the early childhood education they need. But this law brings difficulties, and I would like to say that it was a good thing that the committee made the statement which monitors the effects of this law. The key to the quality of early childhood education is that there are enough kindergarten teachers and their education is being increased. It is essential that we have national goals for early childhood education, and work must be done to ensure that they are implemented for each child. The time for adults is absolutely essential, and I would like to join those speakers who say that it is absurd that part-time children should have:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u36	Mr President! There is hardly anyone in the government party who screams for joy at this bill, but at the same time we must remember that, when this law comes into force, we will still have a high-quality, high-quality early childhood education. It is also important, as the previous speaker pointed out, to do as the committee requires, that an overall assessment be carried out of the impact of the reform. Ladies and gentlemen, a subjective day care law was adopted in the past, and this new law, in particular for those for whom it is necessary, guarantees that 40 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u37	Madam President! In spite of this partial delimitation, it is important for Christian Democrats that if the child’s interests so require development, support or family circumstances, there is, however, an opportunity for this modern - day early education. We are mainly concerned about the way in which this quality of early childhood education can be ensured. As has been heard here, at the same time the weakening of the dimension and then the increase in the number of these part-time children in these kindergarten groups may have an effect on the fact that indeed the three nurses in total can have 39 children in that group. In that sense, we attach the utmost importance to these statements contained in the report: we must now really follow what these changes will bring. It is good that different decisions have also been taken in municipalities, and in that sense I think it is important that this issue of quality is now particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u38	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen, I would like to say that it is true that last season the centre is really, really critical of, for example, central government cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u43	Madam President! I understand that Mr Arhinmäki is pleased with the concept of rebellion, but this is not a municipal uprising, it is the self-government of the municipalities. I think it is an excellent thing that if the municipalities have the economic conditions that they feel they can organise these early childhood education issues as before, then go ahead. In my opinion, those day care centres are doing a very valuable job, and I believe it is good for the children. But when you here at every turn emphasize that this is a child's right, then I am a little disturbed by this expression also in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, because you are not sending anything to Stasia to the home where the parents want to take care of their children themselves. On the basis of my old hobby, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are now once again adopting a law that the government proposed as a violation of the Constitution. Think of it, the government presented an anti-constitutional law because Kela could have provided certain information to the authorities responsible for the confidentiality of municipalities. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this point had to be changed when it was contrary to the Constitution — senseless.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u44	Mr President! Indeed, the municipalities can now decide for themselves, despite this government policy, on subjective day care rights in the future. Last night, Riihimäki decided to maintain the subjective right to day care, as well as the current group sizes of day care and primary schools, and this is an excellent thing. President! I am really concerned about how, with this government proposal, children in Finland will find themselves in a very unequal position, depending on the municipality in which they live. And I must say that when we heard experts in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and Mr Gustafsson said that 90% of the experts were involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u49	Mr President! Personally, I would tend to think that this proposal should be viewed precisely from the point of view of those families that are most vulnerable in society and those families that most need, for example, that full-time early childhood education. This is not a debate about whether home care is more valuable than early childhood education in day care or something like that, but about the risks that arise for these most vulnerable families. And the risks that may arise: are the savings that are very low worth it? Or what is the one who tells a family that you are not entitled to full - time? Who takes that responsibility and evaluates it? Or when we create such a threshold, so terribly easy for a person to begin to minimize its own situation at home, begin to stretch the limit that we are able to and perhaps we do not meet the criteria, so that again there may be a risk vacuum like this, where a person does not get the support or dare to ask for it if we need it. That is why I hope that the government will continue to reflect on the risks involved from the family perspective, from the perspective of the whole day care system, and on the other side the savings that are very small. Can we afford to take children and families for well-being?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u50	Mr President! I think it is a little worn-out old saying that with a stick in the eye that remembers the old ones, but it did draw some attention to the fact that, here, for example, Mr Arhinmäki so strongly defends the freedom of choice for families, and I think that your party was one of those who, under the very conditions, wanted to opt for compulsory home care support last season, It is quite clear that we are now making a change. And what is even more clear and excellent is that the committees which have dealt with this have stressed the monitoring of this law, particularly as regards the criteria used in the various municipalities for deciding that children should receive full-time care. I think it is important now that there is also a message from this Chamber that we are not delimiting justice altogether. Still 20 hours a week each child is entitled to early childhood education. I think it has been good that immigrant families, for example, have emerged here. It is of paramount importance that now integrated children, from abroad, for example, receive full-time early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u51	Madam President! Mr Saarikko, I deliberately raised this debate because Mr Saarikko, among others, with others, had tears in his eyes to defend the right of families to choose how to treat the child. I also believe that it would make sense, in terms of equality between women and the situation in the labour market for women, for women and men to use the possibility of home care support more evenly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u52	Mr President! I believe that the debate on this limitation of the right to day care is very narrow and black and white, unfortunately. An important issue could be discussed a little more broadly. It is undoubtedly important that early childhood education is given to all children who need it, but it is equally important that society recognizes the fact that some small children, very small children, get a good sense of education and security when you can be at home with your parents. There is also a great deal of research on it, and there are also very many expert opinions on it, but they are not taken into account in this debate, because this debate is clearly ideological on that side too. And I would like to emphasise: How many of you have been working in a day-care centre and have seen how large the children are already in groups of children? I've been working there for years. And how many of you have asked those kids, do you want to spend a long day in day care or do you want to be home? My son didn't want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u53	Madam President! Yes, this is a sad time we live in. It is certainly not possible to count with the fingers of two hands the speeches that have been used in the Chamber about the mistakes made in the 1990s. It has been saved from children, it has been spared from young people and it has been said quite unanimously since then that these have been the worst and worst savings decisions that have been made in this society. They have been once and for all bad savings decisions, because the cost of these decisions has been much higher both humanly and economically later. I would like to say to Mr Vanhanen that, given that you are now justifying these decisions, for example, about this early education, by giving municipalities the freedom to balance their own economy, the municipalities have said, for example, in Tampere, that these savings decisions you have presented are so absurd that the municipalities do not want to seize them, because they will later cost us much more than what they have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u54	Mr President! Day care in Finland is an excellent thing, because then parents can go to work and study and so on. But if one parent or both parents are at home, I think that parents should take care of their children themselves. Each child now retains the right to early childhood education for 20 hours and, if necessary, 40 hours. This is heading in the right direction: day care is therefore provided as necessary. We do not have a statutory obligation to participate in early childhood education, and many children are already in part-time day care or full-time home care. Is the opposition concerned about these children? I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u55	Madam President! In this room, it's a sweet mess of subjective day care duty and right. This is a question of justice, not of necessity, and this is something that is being forgotten many times. And the biggest steak in this debate is precisely that the restriction of this subjective day care right continues the government's line of taking the most out of those who have the least of all and who need it most. This is the biggest steak in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u56	Mr President! Certainly no one in this Chamber disputes the importance of early childhood education. Mr Saarikko rightly pointed out the importance of this monitoring and the impact assessment, and that is what I would like to draw attention to. I myself proposed in committee a statement calling for an overall assessment of the impact of these various reforms on children, families and also gender equality and that this overall assessment should be taken into account in the reform of the early childhood education law, and I am pleased that this proposal was unanimously adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u57	Mr President! In my opinion, it should be said once again that there is currently a system of early childhood education in Finland based on the freedom of choice of families, which is based on the idea that families themselves are best placed to assess which form and time of care is best for the child. With this delimitation, it means that public authority for certain families is the best way and time for the child. This shows that freedom of choice is not an important principle for the assembly when it comes to the families of the unemployed. Then, as we heard in this speech by Mr Vanhanen, this is only about savings, but these estimates of savings have also received very strong expert criticism. In the government's proposal, the whole assessment is based on an 11-year-old survey. This does not take into account the potentially growing expenditure on child welfare, nor does it take into account the fact that not all municipalities intend to make this change, which will increase regional inequalities. Is this the development the center wants?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u58	Mr President! Of course, all the savings are difficult to make, but especially when criticism comes from party representatives who have put forward no alternative to savings but, on the contrary, to take on more debt, we are confident that this is just a larger demand depression that will pass if nothing is done — it cannot be done. Now the government is acting in a responsible way. It also offers practical opportunities when it comes to saving money and, as I said, there will be no unreasonableness in this case. Early childhood education remains a subjective right. It's part 20 hours, part 40 hours. I do not quite agree with the tone of this debate that it is felt that many of the parents who do not automatically have the right to 40 hours are somehow worse parents and are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u59	Mr President! Mr Paloniemi gave an interesting speech in which he pointed out that this debate might be somewhat ideologically colored. What, then, is ideological and what is not ideological? I think that ideology is something like that when we refuse to look at Finnish society as it is Finnish society. I am referring here to the fact that, in addition to having a lot of good families where children are good at home, we also have families where the child does not receive that support at home. Parents may have mental health and substance abuse problems, the kind of situations that need to be supported by society. Can a person with mental health problems or substance abuse know how to go out and claim that support himself? This is the question. Can you go out and get what is right for you when you're afraid of stigmatizing? Then it will be a child who is in the most vulnerable position.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u60	Mr President! I would like to say, when I look at this Chamber, that we too have become quite wise, even though in our time we have not received early childhood education in kindergarten. So I would like to say that early childhood education, and also later education, is primarily for parents, for adults. But it is great that we have day-care centres so that children can be there if they wish for 20 hours or, depending on family circumstances, for a longer time. But if you look through the eyes of a child, you've only talked about early childhood education, and if you think about a child, you want to play, you have it at home or in day-care centres, play, be together and then do everything nice, move, play and like this. They say they're in bed. They're at home. They're in day care. The child learns by studying and asking questions, talking and everything. Everything is for children at home or in day care that our children can be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u61	Madam President! I welcome the further development of the early childhood education law and its second phase. In Finland, early childhood education is top-notch and it is valuable that every child retains the right to subjective early childhood education. In addition, there is the right of children to receive quality early childhood education on an equal basis. This will therefore continue to be guaranteed. It is also the right of children to have extensive day care, and this will also be maintained when the child’s best interests so require. These are values that must also be adhered to in difficult times. In my opinion, it is good that we keep it in clear mind that every child retains the right to early childhood education and, when the child’s interests so require, also extensive day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u62	Madam President! There is now much justification here, on the part of the government parties, for maintaining the right for everyone and, depending on the situation of the family, for early childhood education to be carried out on a wider scale. But how does this work out in practice? After all, when a person can be both employed and unemployed during one year, a student or, unfortunately, ill, does this child’s day care allowance change all the time according to these situations? How can that day care staff answer that question? And how can that benefit be assured? I fear that this is a different factor, as is the fact that the municipalities themselves decide on the extent to which early childhood education is to be used in the final game.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u63	Madam President! In this Chamber, efforts have often been called for to increase decision-making in municipalities and to dismantle standards. Here we go. I find it very unpleasant that parents who care for children at home are being blamed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u64	Värderade fru talman! Congressman Katainen said just now that the government trusts families, parents. That is what we would like to see, but this proposal does indicate the exact opposite. The government does not trust the parents or trust that the families themselves will be able to make this choice. The government, in its wisdom, is doing it for the parents, just as Mr Andersson said well just now. The government decides who gets day care, who doesn't, who gets 40 hours, who gets 20 hours. And at the same time, a need-tested system is created in which children are easily stigmatized: they are the children of those who work and then the children of the unemployed. It's not in the best interests of the kids. Representative Niinistö raised the issue of integration and how this day care is an important part of integration. Especially in this situation, where the number of immigrants has increased rapidly, this should be taken into account. Representative Saarikko said that the government obviously will take this, and that is a good thing, because this will ensure that immigrants have access to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u65	Madam President! In my opinion, the negative effects of this restriction are greatly exaggerated and, at the same time, the right of the child to his/her own parents and the ability of ordinary parents to provide his/her own child with quality early childhood education. If the parents are at home and are capable of caring for the child, should not the child primarily be guaranteed the right to parental and family care and, in the alternative, to day care? My question is: do you really think that, for example, young children, 1-, 2-, 3-year-olds, need full-time vocational early childhood education more than the arms of their own parent? And I would remind you that the focus of the Constitution is also on the family, where it says that 'public authority must support the possibilities of family and other child care providers to ensure the well-being and individual growth of the child'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u66	Mr President! This proposal does prove the concern that the economic downturn will also lead to mental regression. This performance does not make children just two - story children, but three - story children. In other words, not only is the employment status of parents differentiating those who receive early childhood education, but also from their place of residence, because, as a result of the proposal, some municipalities have now decided not to undermine the subjective day care right. What does the centre say about the fact that in some parts of the country, in the north and in the east, children are disadvantaged than, for example, here in Helsinki, where wealthy municipalities have decided to retain subjective day care rights? Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u67	Mr President! Many experts and agreements have been referred to here, but one has yet to be said: in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we must ensure, as a State Party, that we respect the responsibility, the right and the duty of the guardian to care for and raise his child. According to many studies, this 20-hour period of early childhood education is quite sufficient. One study says that a regular 3 - hour participation in high - quality early childhood education brings what it can bring to a small one. Increasing time will then not significantly increase the benefit of this quality early childhood education either.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u68	Mr President! With regard to what the previous speaker said, this law also contradicts the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not guarantee every child equal rights to early childhood education in accordance with the objectives, because children are placed on an unequal footing according to the labour market status of their parents. On the contrary, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended to Finland that the coverage and quality of early childhood education should be improved, and it was also recommended that Finland should encourage more parents to report their children to early childhood education in order to facilitate Finnish language skills, social skills and the transition to school, and to prevent failure in schooling and early school leaving. But now it's just the opposite. Should it not already be clear to all of us that prevention costs much less than repairing, both in money and humane terms? I also wonder why no impact assessments have been carried out in this proposal: no child impact assessments, no family and gender impact assessments. What's the big deal? What's the big deal? What's the big deal? What's the big deal? What's the big deal? Too bad there's no ministers here to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u69	Madam President! I am surprised at the fact that things are constantly being aggravated and exaggerated here. Congressman Tuppurainen claimed here that this law is reactionary and drives women home. That's not what this is about. Yes, this law still guarantees that anyone who needs early childhood education will receive it. And this also ensures that those who have parents at home receive it for 20 hours a week with quality and knowledgeable early childhood education. Mr Kantola said that we should look at the state of affairs as it is. I would simply add that this state of the economy should also be seen as it is, from eye to eye, and courageously make the difficult decisions that are necessary in this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u70	Madam President! Indeed, if we looked at the economic impact, it would be found that the EUR 1 investment in early childhood education will yield EUR 7 back. This is one of the reasons why experts are not in favour of restricting the right to day care. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health heard more than 20 experts and none of them supported this government proposal, none. And as far as these women's rights or women's employment are concerned, of course, the proposal, which restricts the ability of those who work in shredded jobs to have a full-time job for their child, weakens their situation. And, as you will know, these shreddings are piling up for women precisely because family costs are still being distributed unfairly in Finland. And yes, from the point of view of children's rights, this is a sad law. This is going to make it better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u71	Madam President! Government parties have consciously set up a day care centre and a home against each other. That is not what this is all about, but that every child has an equal right to equal quality early childhood education for the same length of time. It is not the right of children to parents or anything else, but the right of children to early childhood education. On the other hand, there is also the problem here with what has been argued that if this 20-hour right is not held but is desired longer, then families will have to justify what makes a child need this full-time day care. In addition, this problem arises from the fact that different municipalities can use different criteria to determine the basis on which a child is entitled to full-time care. And now, as has been said here, we have cities and municipalities that have also said that they will not adopt this law. ♪ That's all we've got ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u72	President! It is precisely this quality of early childhood education that has been mentioned here, and this is what the government intends to invest in in early childhood education: this pedagogical education will be significantly increased for these professionals this season. What is essential is precisely that everyone has at least that amount. According to experts, this 20 - hour period is sufficient, and all those who are in need will then receive a larger number of that early childhood education. And it is precisely a matter of public service and moderation in the sense that what is necessary and what is precisely the necessary amount, that 20 hours, is now guaranteed to all. What is essential is also the freedom of choice for families. We in the committee did not want to make the kind of statement that it should be on certain days or a certain number of days, but that families should continue to have that freedom of choice in this area. And what is essential, too, is that parents have primary educational responsibility, and that is why they will also make a significant contribution to family home services in the educational work, when so many young families are now
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u73	Mr President! Mr Niiko's speech is a good illustration of this government's bizarre hatred of experts. The opposition supposedly marches experts, as if it was the fault of the experts, that the government makes presentations to which the people who study matters take a stand. There are two problems in this proposal: the inequality of children has already been raised. Indeed, in the future, it will depend on the kind of care and early childhood education the children receive. So much for the equality of opportunity preached by the coalition. Secondly, there is the stigma of families, that is, as has been said many times here, children have access to full-time care, even if the parent is at home, i.e. the authorities estimate, the social welfare that Mrs Zyskowicz paints will decide which family will receive the treatment and what will not. It's good for the neighbors to see that, uh, there's a situation in this family where you need full-time care, nice thing about what's going on there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u74	Madam President! The emphasis here is on the fact that when some municipalities do not like other municipalities, children are placed in unequal positions. On the other hand, when we discuss municipal self-government, everyone, including the representative of the Greens and others, stresses the importance of local self-government. Dear friends, local self-government, if respected, leads to people in certain municipalities receiving a different service and treatment than those in other municipalities. Then I am disturbed by this particular kind of terminology dishonesty. For example, when Mrs Kiljunen said that the right of every child is this high-quality early childhood education, this is not true. In families where parents keep the child at home and give it to love and education, the child has no right, no right, no quality or less quality of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u75	Mr President! I think that this is basically a very important issue, very broadly speaking, about equality: what opportunity do we allow our children to grow up in an equal society, to have the same opportunities for all. There have already been many speeches here about how early childhood education is the basis for later learning and how school success is going is also a guarantee of other equality. It has been said here that all children also have the possibility of early childhood education for more than 20 hours. Since I have not been to these committees to listen to the experts, I have now listened to you, ladies and gentlemen. It is very easy for me to agree with what has been said here that the very families most in need of this support are the ones who fail to apply for it. This is not about:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u76	Mr President! Home care and day care are not rivals or contrasts. Home care and day care are complementary ways to raise nice, decent citizens in this country. If the government makes a proposal that jeopardises the choice of home care for children and families, I will also, as a tiger, object to this proposal, but that is not the point at all today. It is a question of the right of children and families to day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u77	Madam President! There is nothing wrong with the government considering that parents at home must take more responsibility for the care of their children, or does the opposition think that it is more about the comfort of parents than the child’s right to their parents’ presence, care, affection and intimacy? The interaction between the child and the parents is important in the development of the child's self-image. Interaction develops by doing, experiencing and being together. A child needs the time of his parents and a sense of joy and enjoyment of being with him. The presence of parents is also important in the development of a child’s affection. Being a mother and a father should be seen as a privilege, not as a life - limiting factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u78	Mr President! In my opinion, we are talking here either about well-being families, where everything is going as it should be, or about families where this need for full-time care is quite obvious. But I fear for those families that are borderline cases. Today, the daycare centres do not know all the problems of families. If a mother or father suffers from fatigue or mental health problems, it may not be known at day care, but in the future the family will have to justify why we feel that we need more than 20 hours, and that is the problem. It doesn't come automatically anymore. I therefore believe that this is a very dangerous law that polarises and stigmatises.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u79	Mr President! Of the concerns raised here about this legislation, for example, about this change in the position of the labour market for parents: if I have correctly interpreted it, this law will, however, enable the child to remain in full-time care for a couple of months in the event of a change in the status of working life, in other words in the event of unemployment, to find a new job as if it were during that period. Of course, this is a problem, and we can certainly look at it on a case-by-case basis, but let us not exaggerate the effects of this either. Then, in response to Mr Nylander's speech, I would like to say an interesting point that came up during the hearings of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It surprised me. In view of the fact that the Child Welfare Act has changed in such a way that the obligation to report is practically in any one of us in doubt about child abuse, it is bizarre that our day care system becomes a marginal number of child protection notifications. So the majority come from somewhere other than the day care district. This was an interesting detail to me, given that it is now very strongly stated here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u80	Mr President! I share the same idea that, at best, day-care centres from now on will be more likely to open debates on difficult and painful issues. Nor do I like the definition that those who receive 40 hours of early childhood education will be more successful in their lives. We cannot label people who use a smaller number of day care rights — not all of them unemployed, with mental health problems. And I suppose it is not possible to think that an unemployed parent is a worse parent in the opposition's view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u81	Mr President! Of course, it is not a question of having a good or bad parent based on the status of the labour market, but it is a clear fact that there are many concerns in an unemployed family, such as financial concerns, about where to find work, the energy of parents spends a lot of time on things that are not spent in working life, and it should also be possible to look for work in addition to caring for a child. But I have to tell you, it's worth believing in. The social environment of children is an important part of the child’s development. Studies say that a child’s brain is created so that it develops in social contact
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u82	Mr President! I am surprised that the government is bull-headed to take forward a poor performance for the child, which has been interrupted by a great many experts. It is not a question of whether the child is being treated at home or in day care. Both are just as valuable, but now the government takes away the right of the families to choose. I am particularly concerned about those children who have fatigue or mental health problems in their family, or some other alarming situation, so that the child would be in a better place for child protection reasons if they were to receive full-time early childhood education, because the family does not necessarily want to apply for or be able to apply for full-time care, not to mention the fact that the members of the government parties are now happy that the municipalities can now save the children and that the municipalities can make the decision to cut off the children. In some municipalities, children get full - time care, but in others they do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u83	Madam President! I am very surprised at this debate, particularly as regards child welfare or social services — social services and child welfare — why they cast a shadow on child welfare, as if it were a bad thing, as if it were a shame. It is the right of the child, it is in the best interests of the child, and child welfare works well in this country, at least in some municipalities, and that is a very good thing. This law is about day care being the right of the child, not the right of families. Families are not entitled to day care, the child is entitled to day care, and this is guaranteed and yet, if it is needed even when the parents are at home, then it is available. Also applies to immigrant children. But this is also part of the Savings Act, it is true. In 2007, a bubble of money was created in this country that we no longer have. The money made out of nothing has gone. Tell us what we're saving up for if we can't save any of this... [President MariaLohela : Next up Mr KristaKiuru. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u86	Mr President! Here quite a long time ago, Mr Vanhanen asked why this law fell during the last reign. For some reason, I happen to know these steps very well, and I say that it fell because of the fact that the savings at the time, which did not involve the children of the unemployed, did not come. And when those savings did not come, the government could not bring forward a savings law that did not bring savings for which reason this was abandoned. Now I'm wondering about this new government. You have exactly the same officials in use, and for that reason I wonder why no one has told you that the municipalities of Finland were asked — 30 municipalities were asked — whether they intend to introduce the dimensioning of part-time children, which is currently a dead letter, i.e. the 1/13 dimension is not used in Finland in a fair formula. It was said that we are going to introduce this, which is why we would have two types of groups: 39 child part-time groups whose subjective day care rights have been cut,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u87	Mr President! The position of women in the labour market is also highlighted here. It must be borne in mind that this government was finally able to decide that the cost of parenting will now be offset by the sum of EUR 2500. This was also a long-standing problem, but fortunately something has been achieved. It is quite clear that there is a temptation in this matter to interpret it very critically and that if a loophole of some kind is found that way. I also agree that these assessments must be quite flexible then. For example, if you are talking about working parents or female entrepreneurs or, for example, your father is an entrepreneur, then of course you are looking for some other solutions. There is no point in giving out the impression that we are now completely depriving children of the right to care and forcing women home. Don't give the families the wrong message about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u88	Mr President! Neither do you on the other side of the hall suggest that this side wants to deprive the child of the right to be home. No one's really doing that. But the worry is that children are now in a very unequal position. There may be a child living on the other side of the intermunicipal border who receives a smaller day care group and from whom the subjective day care right is not limited, and on the other side of the municipal border there is a larger day care group and there is also a restriction on this subjective day care right.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u91	Mr President! The representative of the plant mentioned that the government is critically listening to experts. But it is true that we should be critical if the arguments put forward here are true. But let's go to that history: In my age class, at least there was no organised day care in Joensuu during the 60s to 70s, but my mother worked with her sister in turn and they took care of the children. The day care system was not originally created for the unemployed and parents at home, but for women to enter the labour market. That is the starting point that must be borne in mind. And now that we are living in tough economic times, we must gradually go back to giving parents the opportunity to care for their children at home, if possible, but still give children the right to early education for everyone as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u92	Madam President! It has already been used to in the opposition that expert statements from the government are not being listened to and read terribly seriously, but Mr Niikko spoke of expert statements as nonsense in the past. Nonsense about expert testimony! And on the opposition side it is constantly emphasised that the right to home and day care is both—and when the government is painted the image that it is either—or. It is precisely — Mr Zyskowicz, I hope you will listen to the next statement — that no one is forced to take children to day care, but everyone is offered that full-time day care. It is a question of day care law, not of duty. Let's give him a chance. No one's forced to go there. I hope that these basics will be taken into account. And even though government parties have declared red tape dismantling, national and local representatives of government parties make decisions that only increase bureaucracy and the cost of it, and that is why the restriction of subjective day care rights was brought down in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u93	There are still ten requests for the floor: Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Andersson, Mr Marin, Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Lindtman, Mr Paloniemi, Mr Huhtasaari, Mr Halmenpää, Mr Räsänen and Mr Vanhanen. Let's do it and then we'll go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u94	Madam President! To Mr Guzenina, there is indeed a difference in municipal self-government. Think of it, there's a completely different tax rate on the other side of the county border than on the other side. Congressman Wave, I've never claimed to be coerced. I have wanted so much honesty in the debate that it would be said that this is not the right of every child, contrary to what is said here in the committee reports and elsewhere. This is the right of these families. They have the right to choose, but that child does not have the right to choose, and there is no point in saying that here. Mr Guzenina then said that the people of the United States are going somewhere private. I do not know, it may be that some go, and good services are also provided on that side, but I think that the day care and early childhood education services provided by municipalities are excellent. There are good professionals out there doing important work, and I have never underestimated it. As far as these expert opinions are concerned, Mr Gustafsson said that he has never heard such unanimous expert criticism. Mr Gustafsson, you made the same speech last week when we talked about school savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u95	Mr President! I believe that an unemployed parent is just as good a parent as a working parent. An unemployed parent is just as good at assessing what is the best way, treatment and treatment for his or her child as he or she is a working parent. With this bill, you feel that he is not. You're branding parents at home. You are about to deprive unemployed parents of the right to choose and decide how to organise childcare. You are forcing unemployed parents to show that they need parental support for municipal workers if they want to keep their children in full-time care. That's what this is all about. Then, with regard to administrative work and the dismantling of standards, I really hope that this is not an example of what the dismantling of standards in the centre will mean. This proposal will thus increase regional inequalities, while at the same time increasing administrative work, standards and needs assessment at municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u96	Mr President! Both good and slightly weaker speeches have been made in this Chamber on the subject itself, but if one thing has come to light in this debate, it is that the representatives of the government parties do not have a great deal of value for experts, expert opinions, thorough preparation for their own legislative work, which is extremely sad because this price is costing our children, our young people, our future. These savings have been very one-sided by experts. Among other things, Mr Jarva mentioned that at the same time the aim would be to improve the quality of early childhood education in day care. I would ask the question of how it will improve the quality of early childhood education, that now that we already have nurses in full-time day care centres, there will be more group sizes, and then these part-time children will have very large group sizes. I do wonder very much about these ideas of improving quality, when it is precisely here that children's rights are being undermined and that we are
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u97	Madam President! In fact, Congressman Niikko here explained his goal behind this law: to go back to the past, to have mothers at home, and probably to have Saturdays at work and longer working days. But I do not believe that all the defenders of this law are as conservative and with the same purposes as Mr Niikko. On the other hand, what Mr Kalmar and Mr Räsänen have said has been a little disturbing when you say that parents who care for children at home are being blamed here. I've never heard any defender of this law use this kind of speech. It has been said here that the opportunity to choose from the family is taken away, which is the best way for the family. I think these are Mr Kalmar's and Mr Kalmar's. Mrs Räsänen's speeches sound more like she blames those who want the child to receive early childhood education and stay in day care. I think this is a huge question. Our children also need early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u98	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki deliberately misinterpreted my comment. I merely described the way in which this day care system was born, that it was created in need, and in time the need was that women should also be able to get to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u101	Mr President! This speech by Mr Niikko was very revealing as to what this is all about. So he, as a representative of the government party, has accepted that the government will increase the size of the groups and take the money away from the municipalities, but then in the municipality of residence after the Social Democrats took the initiative not to raise the groups, then there he will oppose them again. But despite that, MP Niikko will also withdraw the money from Vantaa. This is precisely the central problem in this proposal for savings. It is true, Mr Zyskowicz, that the municipalities have autonomy. But now, when you look at the municipalities where the decision is made not to make this limit, it is precisely because the savings are very small in relation to the disadvantages that come. I'm asking what message this is to the government. And when Mr Vanhanen said here that the parties who have criticised us here on the basis of expert opinions do not have a choice: the SDP has presented an alternative and, for example, by reducing the capitalisation of the Agricultural Development Fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u102	I, Mr President, am concerned about children who are becoming increasingly concerned — about day-care centres — about children who are allowed or who are going to be in day-care for very long hours. And why is that? That is because of what Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said there. This is partly due to the fact that many single parents, who do not have very good education in their background, do not today offer anything but shredding, night jobs, evening jobs, temporary work, Sunday jobs, that is, children’s days are really long. I would now like to ask you: What is the best interests of the child in this case? Would it not be a privilege for us to think and really meet these parents, to be able to care for their young children at home, for example? If you have to do a lot of shredding, a bit, a night, a weekend, that parenting and that child's best interests will not come true. I think that we should think much more about this and really look at who is in need of strong parenting and what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u103	Mr President! I do not understand why the opposition has missed the point of being treated as necessary. And as far as difficult family situations are concerned, no parent’s substance abuse problem does not disappear in the way that the child is in day care, but we need a discussion about why more care is needed. Then we need support for parenting, because the child has the right to good parenting. As far as inequality is concerned, even today the situations of children and families vary all the time. Children are sometimes part-time in care, there are small sisters, then there are full-time care, there are times when you are home in full-time care. Even now, there are children in different sizes, family day care, some in home care, different day care centres. This issue of inequality is completely pointless. In addition, the civilised state of Switzerland is doing just fine without subjective day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u104	Madam President! Unfortunately, this proposal does not leave society with shredding work, and unfortunately, it does not improve the parenthood of any parent. Those starting points are quite different from those from this bill. But, Mr President, unfortunately, in this debate there is really no point of view on early childhood education staff, which I think is also essential. And as far as the different municipalities are concerned, it would be good to hear now whether the Committee on Education has also explained what will happen, for example, in small and medium-sized municipalities where a significant part of early childhood education takes place in family day care. Does the family day care provider have part-time and full-time children in the future, or is the group size and/or working time of the family day care provider being stretched, and how is this reflected in the pay? From the point of view of one family day care provider, this is probably quite an essential issue. Second of all, to this whole thing...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u105	Madam President! Representative Arhinmäki: I was not talking about the guilt of parents, but about the understatement of parents, because many speakers have spoken about how damaging it is if the child is not entitled to 40 hours a week of early childhood education. Let me remind you here that, according to the Basic Education Act, we are entitled to 19 weekly hours per week for the 1st to 2nd graders. Why on earth does a one-year-old or two-year-old need 40 hours of early childhood education if 7-year-olds and 8-year-olds need 19 hours of education a week? I don't understand this logic. I would also like to comment on this comment, which stated that an unemployed parent should have the right to apply for a job. Yes, he's already very busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u106	And Mr. Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u107	Mr President! In these problematic situations, even after the adoption of this law, everyone will also have the opportunity to receive the 40-hour treatment per week. It may even be that the situation improves in such a way that the situation of these families needs to be reviewed and what help is needed: Is it the best way to help a child to have a full - time early education, or perhaps to give help home? But let's not leave these families behind, as long as it's 40 hours, but let's go through things properly with the family. I would also restore the history of this early childhood education in such a way that this period of 8 hours or 40 hours did not come from the needs of early childhood education, but from the needs of working life. Let's be honest. And just as Mr Räsänen said, when we go to primary school, time falls to about 20 hours. So these hours are not from any science, but are set by this society,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u108	And then to the list of speakers. It's Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u109	Mr President! The proposal to limit the right to subjective day care is a perfect example of how policy should not be made. Early childhood education is currently a well-functioning system of pedagogical education in Finland that serves the needs of families well. It has been identified in several studies as a well-functioning and very profitable social investment. It enables full - time early education for all families, despite changes in life situations. Instead of further developing and improving this well-functioning system, this system will now begin to be limited and degraded. The limitation of subjective day care rights weakens the entire early childhood education system. It limits parental choice and discriminates between children and families with children. There is also a growing risk that children most in need of support will be left without it. And the only reason for the motion is the savings, which, moreover, have been well assessed on the upper deck. Mr President! The limitations and changes of the law discriminate between families on the basis of both the municipality of residence and the service provider. It is already known that many large municipalities do not intend to implement the changes proposed by the government in terms of group sizes or the right to day care. As a result of these guidelines, regional differences in the services of families with children will increase significantly. In addition to this, the future needs test by municipalities on which families receive full-time care based on the social conditions of the family increases the risk that different criteria will be applied across the country to assess the need for family support. The restriction also puts children in private and public services in an unequal position compared to each other. Private service providers could in future offer full-time care to all families in return for a separate payment when there is no such possibility in practice on the municipal side. As has already been said in many speeches, this proposal has been knocked out by almost all experts. Particular attention has been paid to the impact of the demarcation on the situation of families in need of special support. In Finland, it is estimated that up to 25 per cent of underage children live in families where parents have a substance abuse or mental health problem requiring treatment. In those families where the parent is at home but the child is in full - time care, studies have shown that these children have a strong background in the need for full - time child care, such as parents ’ lack of language skills, parents’ mental health problems, incapacity for work, pension, special care for seriously ill siblings, and temporary work. The restriction and the combined needs test increase the threshold for applying for full-time care for the families that would benefit most from it. It adds to the fear of being stigmatized, as the need to consider needs that parents themselves individually show that they are in need of parental support. Mr President! The preparation of an amendment of the law, which has such a significant impact on the well-being of children, should be based on timely and accurate information. In this proposal, however, the estimate of savings is based on the 11-year-old STM study. The impact on vulnerable families in particular has not been assessed separately and the proposal has not taken a position on the possible increase in the need for child protection. Finally, Mr President, this government proposal is only justified by the savings of the state budget. It has not taken as a starting point the interests of the child and the rights of the child, as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges. In terms of early childhood education, this is a major political change in Finland. Instead of the child’s interests and educational perspectives, priority has been given to purely financial savings. For these reasons, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mrs Eloranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u110	Mr President! Since the debate has already dealt with the overlay of this proposal and the fact that there is no savings to be made, I am now focusing on the underlying assumptions contained in this proposal and also in the debate on it, which I believe are essential to understand and to say in order to understand what is going so badly wrong here. After all, we are now making a presentation which, for its part, takes Finnish society and its welfare structures towards such a model of consideration, in which rigidity and bureaucracy will grow even further. So it is a question of standards on the wrong side: we are going in exactly the opposite direction to what we originally thought when we entered this regime. Behind this is the assumption of a regular slow-moving family that is full of crap in this world, where parents, especially of young children, usually work in pre-arranged conditions, and where family conditions can thus vary monthly, even weekly. It is very typical that after a child care leave, for example, a mother who does not have a job waiting for her would like to start her own career by going to a temporary work firm and then calling from seven in the morning to get a job from eight. Well, he can't accept the job, because no day care system can offer that full-time place at such short notice, or if he can, it means so much extra costs and reorganization of the current day care system that it will actually eat up the savings that might be available here. Another assumption behind this is the assumption of full-time day care, that all children in full-time positions would actually visit it 40 hours or at least 35 hours a week in the day care centre. This is not the case, but parents take advantage of this 40 hours to give room to take into account the family situation and the child’s own development in the length of care periods, that if a child loves to be in a day care centre this month and has a lot of work and play with friends, then there may be a longer day, but when a grandmother comes to visit and is a nurse at home and is comfortable with grandma, then it can be a very short day. In fact, under the current circumstances, even if they have a full-time place, almost all parents, where possible, are seeking to have quite rational and reasonable treatment days, especially for very young children, unless there is a specific factor in the family, which makes it felt that 40 hours or almost 40 hours would be necessary. And this leads to a change in this law being directed specifically at families where there is a special need for full - time care for children, that is, families with postpartum depression, families with other illnesses, families with a crisis for some reason, families where the baby keeps up nights and the mother wants to sleep during the day. The third assumption behind this reform, which is not true, is the assumption that when we simply put good will and good will in the law or even when we put them in the committee's reports, then the municipalities will go and carry out our beautiful ideas without a hitch. This is not happening in the real world. In fact, we continue to have municipalities with some kind of periodic penalty payments because they do not even comply with the obligations laid down in the law in numerical terms and which are therefore very easily controlled. It is utopian to assume that, in this economic situation, municipalities would act somewhat more directly with obligations which are very difficult to control and which generally still target a group of people whose ability to launder their own rights is particularly weak. The fourth backup myth behind this performance is the default of latte mothers. Now that the parliament has changed, everyone may not remember this concept of a latte mom, but last season there was a tough debate that those lazy housewives are just sitting in those downtown cafes drinking lattes with prams and there seems to be no society building full-time as we should all be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u113	Mr President! Yes, the importance of early childhood education has been awakened on the political side rather late in the day. Finland stands out in an interesting way in comparison with OECD countries, which was also true in the recent debate. In Finland, participation in pedagogical early childhood education in comparison with OECD countries is lower than average than in many of our control countries. So 75% of children over the age of three take part in early education, so I do not think that, in the context of the recent debate, it is a problem for the child not to have the opportunity to be at home, but whether he is entitled to be in early childhood education is being discussed today. Mr President! I think that the group chairman of the centre, Matti Vanhanen, has very well been presented here, who unfortunately is not now hearing this longer answer as to why last season's subjective day care rights fell. It fell because it was a savings law, and if the savings law fails to show the savings that are being sought, then, of course, it is no longer a savings law. It is then an ideological, political choice of values, legislation that the government prioritises on the basis of its own ideology, and it will, of course, bring a draft law to the effect that this is what we want to do. But today we are also dealing with the Savings Act, and we must also ask today whether these savings from the government will come true. And now, when you go straight to the heart, the question is whether it is possible in a kingdom the size of Finland to treat children differently. Of course, equality would mean that every child would be in an equal position with respect to cultural rights. Unlike the recent debate, which also ended with Matti Vanhanen's statement that this old basis for subjective day care law comes from the fact that parents needed to get to work and the child had to have that time somewhere, now it is no longer a question of this being the right of parents in modern early education. During the last term of government, this day care law, which was over 40 years old, was reformed into an early childhood education law, and it took on board a conscious choice of values that was about the child’s right to early childhood education. Now this child's right to early childhood education is at issue here when we are discussing subjective day care rights. So is it possible to restrict cultural rights? I found it interesting that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a position on this, and I have been wondering, throughout this debate, why there was so little talk about this in this Chamber. This is interesting now. The government is pushing through the Savings Act, which actually saves on subjective day care rights, and when the Constitutional Committee requires that these groups be evaluated by the government by law in Parliament, it will lead to the likelihood that it will not be possible to treat children with cultural rights in such a way that they have even half the larger groups when it comes to part-time children. Consequently, this austerity law, which is being passed today as a savings law, will later prove to be a completely useless shell, without saving, but it will later be shown that these heavy costs, which led to the collapse of this law during the last term of government, will come to an end. And then we say that the government got this ideological project through, because it was not possible to evaluate these savings in Parliament at the same time. That's what I'm really sorry about. This shows the poor preparation of the government if we are in a situation where it was not genuinely possible to assess whether it is possible in Finland to treat children as part-time children so that 39 children can be in the same part-time group. This ideological choice was made by this government by deciding that there will be no amendment to this, and that we will be in a situation in which there will be 39 part-time groups instead of 24 children, whose children have already had their subjective day-care rights cut. If this is not a trampling of these children’s rights, then what is? In the same class, as in comprehensive school, some children would be held in totally huge groups
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u114	Mr President! Those who talk about early childhood education only as a place where the child is put in detention, as it were, during parental employment, I recommend getting to know the rights of the child and the importance of early childhood education. For those who only talk about money, I would recommend that we look at the OECD report and the calculations that this EUR 1 investment in quality early childhood education brings back the benefit of EUR 7 to society, as so many representatives have already said in this debate today. As I have already pointed out — but I did not receive an answer from the representatives of the government parties — the government parties have declared the dismantling of red tape, but both nationally in this Chamber and locally in a large number of municipal councils, the representatives of the government parties take decisions that only increase bureaucracy and the cost of it. This issue was not even addressed by Mr Zyskowicz in the debate. In Jyväskylä, Pori and many other municipalities, unemployment is the main problem. When this unemployment is combined with fragmented working life, the limitation of subjective day care rights, both economically and humanly, is an absurd decision. Subjective day care is not a subjective day care obligation — I repeat: subjective day care is not a subjective day care obligation — and people will continue to have the right to judgment and decisions in support of family practice where children or children are treated more in addition to the day care centre at home. That is what I would like to emphasise: the opposition talked about both the model, the government and the representatives of the government today spoke very much about the either-or-model. The limitation of the subjective right to day care will result in the child’s right to early childhood education being dependent on the situation of the parent’s life, and this is the big steak the opposition has been talking about today. Parents whose children are not entitled to full - time care have to choose whether to participate in early childhood education every day on a part - time basis or a few days a week on a full - time basis. And since children over 3 years of age in full-time early education may be up to 8 children per breeder, while children participating in part-time early childhood education may be up to 13 children per breeder, this change in the law allows parents to have access to lower and higher quality early childhood education. If families choose a full-time early childhood education option for a few days, the child will reach smaller groups and a higher-quality early childhood education. However, since early childhood education is planned as a whole, as an activity supporting development and learning, only a few days in the case of children participating in full-time early childhood education, this objective will be partially realised. In practice, this means that children are forced to leave many educational modules of importance for learning and education, and the decisions of children's parents limit many of the key educational sets for children's development. And although a more limited model of early childhood education for some families may work even better, it is absolutely essential for the whole to take into account at least three points that have already been raised in this debate today: 1) The employment situation of parents and the care arrangements for other children in the family do not justify changing the quality of early childhood education. 2) The Constitution prohibits discrimination on the grounds of socio-economic background. I know what the committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have said about this, but this is precisely what has emerged many times today that people in different municipalities are in unequal positions. In Jyväskylä, the City Council approved the limitation of subjective day care rights by a single majority, while in Pori there is no restriction. In Pori and Jyväskylä, children are in an unequal position. 3) The third point is that, according to the early childhood education law, the aim of early childhood education is to promote equality in education with which the restriction of subjective day care rights is incompatible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u115	Mr President! Each of us has strong opinions because each of us has family experience. But that does not make us qualified to take a stand on the situation of another family. In this presentation, if we are to take the views of experts into account. The well-being of families is something that must be outside party politics. The best interests of children must prevail. Children have the future of our nation as a whole: our future presidents, researchers, artists and all other actors. There is a new hope for Finland in the new generation. Children should never be offered half-baked because they are only children, but the best because they are children. It is simply morally wrong to operate on children. These cuts will not even bring any financial benefits, just damage and higher costs. Of course, the responsibility for children always lies with the guardians, but saying this does not help in an imperfect life, where children today have a great deal of risk factors due to problems with fragile family structures, intoxicants, unemployment and money shortages. The protective factors enable a person to cope well despite these risk factors. In this government proposal, there is something about the attitude that a day-care centre is just a storage facility, and that is not what it is, of course, but a fostering partner for parents and raising children's own basic resources. The day care centre cannot affect the financial situation of families or much about the private life of families, but it provides protection for children’s social skills, warm relationships, learning skills, strengthening self-esteem, experience of success, friends and trust in adults. For example, a protective factor in a child’s life can be a warm relationship with an understanding nanny or kindergarten teacher. Relationships need time, and they do not arise if the nurse has too many children, or if the children come and go like a parent. The government’s proposal also springs from the old-fashioned thinking of working relationships. As a result of the presentation, day care workers are forced to interpret the labour market status of freelancers, job workers, part-time employees who work for many employers from the point of view of day care law. In itself, shredding is a very great burden on families, and now the government puts the children of these families in a state of uncertainty. Families also have very different everyday opportunities to take children to care, as not everyone has two cars. Day care should be a local service, but unfortunately it is not in practice today. In Eastern Finland, public transport does not work so well that it would be possible to take a child to care for 4 hours a day. The organisation of early childhood education must also take into account such everyday ride arrangements. I understand that the government parties do not want to listen to the opposition, but I hope that you will listen to experts and parents and cancel all these cuts on children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u116	Mr President! This law is a savings law. There is no way out of it, and, of course, every time savings are made, they happen to different groups of people. The policy of this government has been that when we make savings, they are made everywhere and cause as little damage as possible. And once this legislation has been adopted, this is the positive aspect — I have heard it said a great many times in this Chamber that more autonomy must be given to the municipalities, that we should abolish the standards here — that now those municipalities who believe that this proposal is such that it does not bring the savings they are seeking or cause difficulties, that they may have acted in such a way that they have not used this opportunity if they have savings in the municipality, but those municipalities which have thought that this legislation will make their costs easier and early childhood education well able, even under these conditions, to take care of what the 20-hour requirement for early childhood education is, have been able to do. There's been a lot of talk about what's best for a child from above. I find this ideological debate sad, as if we knew what the child wanted. I claim that if we ask a two - year - old child if he wants to be with parents or if he wants to be in early education, he might very often answer that he wants to be with his own mother or with his own father or with his own sibling, for example, a parent with parental allowance at home. But here we say it is not good for the child, or many from the left side say it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u119	President! I think it is quite incredible that you, the representative, have concluded that the rights acquired by people may be undermined. We're talking, hey, about these little kids. And when you said in the toilet that there has been a confrontation between home and family, I find it quite remarkable that Kela says on 19 November – that is, this is Kela’s text when they have followed the debate in Parliament, which I shall read next: “It is no wonder that the use of early childhood education services for children aged 0 to 5 is the lowest in Finland. In 2013, about 40 per cent of children aged 1 to 2 were in day care in Finland, with around 70 to 90 per cent in the other Nordic countries. Unlike Finland, in other Nordic countries almost all children over 3 years of age participate in early childhood education outside the home." In other words, I believe that we have a lot of parliamentarians who are pursuing this traditional Finnish line, which is different from the rest of the world. I don't question it. But that's what I'm questioning.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u120	Mr President! Here the speaker spoke in favour of freedom of choice and criticised the opposition for the fact that we value different forms of treatment in relation to each other. But this government proposal means that the government here is setting out on behalf of certain families what this appropriate form of care is. It is the result of this government proposal. You are now restricting the freedom of choice of families. For certain families, you are setting out the appropriate treatment and treatment period. It's not the opposition. It's the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u121	And then there is Mr Kalmar's reply, and then there is Mr Guzenina's actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u122	Mr President! In the future, all families will have a 20-hour subjective day care right. This limitation has already been made before: there was a restriction on the right to 40 hours of early education. As we heard here, international research has shown that early childhood education is good for the development of the child, but less can be done. I would like to ask you who have worked in early childhood education or in that sector more deeply: do you think that all 40 hours of what happens there during day care is educational, or can you, for example, be able to take such rest, if it is included in that day, even at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u123	This gave rise to a few more replies. I will now admit them, that is, representatives Andersson, Jarva and Guzenina, and then we will go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u124	Mr President! Let me repeat once again: with this proposal, certain families are entitled to full-time care and certain families are only entitled to half-day care, that is what it means in practice. And when Mr Kalmar asked what this situation has been like in the past, I can tell you what one expert said when he was in the Committee on Culture and Education giving an expert opinion. He has been in early childhood education for decades at the level of the field, which means that he has also been involved before we entered this equal system, which we now have in place. He said that it was terrible what was done then, that he would not want to be in his position as an employee to determine which families are those who receive the full - time care and what are not, and to be the person who has to evaluate the situation of that family. "That's terrible" was the word he used, and he hoped we'd go back to that system in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u125	Mr President! I will return to that speech by Mr Kiuru on why this limitation of subjective day care rights once fell. It was precisely the compulsory quota of home care support that would have cost a great deal of money, because the demand for day care would have increased dramatically. That is why the definition of subjective day care rights also fell. I have to say again to this speech by the previous representative that this is a wonderful intimidation. It is children, those who need it, who retain that right. We are not going to give them the right to do so separately, are we? It is not a public service task to be given if there is no need. Children and families who need it will continue to have it. As far as the unemployed are concerned, if they get a job, we now have an obligation to provide that place of care immediately. This isn't about picking on people who work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u126	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that Mr Jarva made it clear, which is why this bill fell last season. The reason is not that it was tied to home care support, although this was the case, but that it was not possible to prove that the savings were being made here on the subjective day care court. And as a result, the change in home care support also fell. I know this because I had to pull it out. I was unable to demonstrate to Parliament in this debate that it would be possible to implement this type of definition of subjective day care law, which would be a saving. This has now been the case, both in committee and on the section side, when these expert consultations have been carried out. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a budget law, we will be assessing savings here, and if we are assessing something else, it is ideological legislation, and it may be that you are driving it too, but it will not be saving, and that is why this fell during the last term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u127	I would like to give Mr Guzenina and Mr Kalmar, who have begun this debate, the answer. Mr Guzenina, normally when the representative has the floor, I do not give the answer. This time, I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kalmari admitted that this is a savings law, as has been granted from that side of the Chamber throughout the debate. A law called the Savings Act but not the Savings Act is a stupid law. I quote from an expert opinion: "If the limitation of the right to early childhood education, day care, is implemented in such a way that the need for more than 20 hours of early childhood education is based mainly on the declaration of the child's parents, then this limitation should not even be made. If, on the other hand, the definition and termination of the child’s right to day care, early childhood education takes place in municipal administration, it will significantly increase administrative work in municipalities and will therefore not generate the cost savings required.” Expert opinion, and I will mention the name of the expert: OJ.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u129	Mr President! Even if there were no cost savings of that kind, no one has denied that cost savings will occur. But in reality, when last season the restriction of subjective day care rights and the compulsory quota of home care support were abolished, it was precisely that compulsory quota would have been so expensive because it would have dramatically increased the demand for day care and increased unemployment security expenditure. In other words, it was precisely that the compulsory quota for home care aid would not have become those savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u130	Let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u131	Mr President! I have to say that these are really sad times for Finnish families and Finnish children, because it is a savings law that is moving forward with a law that actually restricts this child's right to early education. This is a really big whole, and they're trying to force us to feed small pieces. For example, this whole group issue in the regulation: it was stated in the Constitutional Committee that this is not the case, it cannot be done, you will have to deal with it. Restriction of subjective day care rights: the Constitutional Committee stated that this issue must be followed up. What if, as a austerity measure, municipalities restrict that subjective day care right to children to whom it belongs on social grounds, for example? Municipalities consider this to be a austerity measure, and we will tighten up the criteria so that the child who needs it does not get it. This has already happened with regard to support for informal care: not everyone who needs support for informal care has received it. And the payment policy here has not yet been discussed at all: We in Espoo calculated that in order to achieve the savings planned by the government, parents in the highest payment category of EUR 280 will have to pay — or when your dream comes true — EUR 350 a month. And what happens to the zero-paying class? And that's not what you've been telling me. Are you going to take away something from the zero-paying class, or the poorest families of all, again? There are no answers to this. Also, no one in the government parties has answered whether it is acceptable that children are in an unequal position all over Finland. None of you have answered this direct question about the opposition here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u132	Okay, and two minutes is up. The speaker can go to the toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u133	Mr President! As you have pointed out, there has been a very lively and important debate here, but we still need to talk about it, because it is such a big deal. The Sipilä Government proposes to amend the section of the Act on Early Childhood Education, which provides for the subjective right of the child to early childhood education. The decision means that the subjective right of the child to early education organised by the municipality is limited to 20 hours per week. The motion is unacceptable. This is about the right of every child to quality early childhood education. It is particularly important for us legislators to ensure that the child is not responsible for the life situation of his or her guardian. As Mr Kiuru pointed out above, Finland is already below the OECD average for children's participation in day care and preschool. In many other countries, the participation of children in early childhood education is considered very important for the development of children and as an investment in the level of skills in the country. Up to now, early childhood education has also been developed in Finland in this direction, that early childhood education is seen as the right of the child. This argument is also supported by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that the child is entitled to non-discrimination without any distinction based on the property of the child, his/her parents or any other legal guardian or any other factor. You can't put a child in an unequal position. As has been pointed out here in the debate, this and, for example, the different decisions taken by municipalities on the matter or, for example, the status of part-time children in Finland will not be equal if this decision is taken as it is. The decision of the Board of Directors does not leave the child’s interest, as tying the right to early childhood education primarily to the older labour market status is an adult-driven solution. This is something to be considered because the government has spoken a great deal about freedom of choice, but it is precisely with such decisions that the government limits the freedom of choice and the possibility of certain children from infancy. And when it is the government that restricts the treatment and treatment of these families, for example, it cannot be a question of strengthening freedom of choice. The Government’s key projects include strengthening basic services for families with children and shifting the focus to preventive and early support services. The limitation of the right to early childhood education is totally incompatible with the main objectives of early childhood education and with the stated objectives of the government. This proposal does not take sufficient account of changing life situations and flexibility in working life into account in the limitation of early childhood education. There is also a lack of the necessary impact assessments, as has been pointed out many times. It does not take into account unambiguous expert opinions, it does not originate from the interests and equality of children, and, as has been mentioned many times here, it is a purely ideological austerity decision. The quality of early childhood education of each child must be defended because it supports the individual development of the child and also prevents exclusion and is the right of each child. It should not be determined, for example, by the situation of the child’s parents, but by the child’s right. Unfortunately, this proposal increases the inequality between children and the losers are particularly vulnerable children. That is why I support Mr Eloranta's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u134	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Here's a short story from a few years ago: That's when I met an Afghan family with a little boy. I think the boy was about three and a half years old at the time. They had just arrived, they hadn't lived in Finland for long, and this boy really couldn't speak a word at the time, that is, he couldn't express a word at all, and there were really no voices.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u137	Mr President! Subjective day care law is one of the most important reforms and achievements of the welfare state in recent decades. High-quality and equal early childhood education is an essential part of the everyday life of many children and families, and up to now it has been seen that families are among the best experts in their everyday life to assess the need for day care and early childhood education from the perspective of their own family and children. Now the government is changing this key starting point and moving the assessment of the need for care and early childhood education outside the family by limiting subjective day care rights to 20 hours for some families. For example, families where parents are unemployed are coming within the scope of the restriction. The right to subjective and equal early childhood education will be abolished and, in future, the determining factor for who is entitled to full-time early childhood education will be the social status of the parents, for example, whether the parent is employed or unemployed. The limitation of subjective day care rights was waived during the last government term, because the savings it sought were found to be small and, correspondingly, the risks were high. Mr Kiuru made an excellent speech here earlier. Subjective day care law has been particularly important for disadvantaged families as it has offset social inequalities in education and income levels and has prevented the deepening of existing problems. And it is from these families and children that the government is taking away the subjective day care right. This is simply not right. Early childhood education is, to a great extent, a preventive service and a very sensible investment in the future. Mr Vanhanen stressed in the previous debate that this law was, above all, a savings law. Well, as a savings law, it is absurd, as has been pointed out several times in this Chamber, to invest in early childhood education when it is one of the most profitable investments we can make in society. According to OECD calculations, the EUR 1 invested in early childhood education brings benefits to society of EUR 7. Similarly, saving from early childhood education will cost society many times more in the future. This has also been said many times here, but unfortunately the ears of the representatives of the government parties have not been open. This is one of the reasons why several municipalities, including my municipality of residence Tampere, have decided not to restrict subjective day care rights or increase group sizes. In Tampere, almost all the council groups, including the elected representatives of the government parties, were opposed to increasing group sizes, and the restriction of subjective day care rights also fell on the votes cast by the representatives of the government parties in the balance-of-language position, because it was not seen that this saving was reasonable. It was seen that it will cost considerably more in the future. Representatives of the government parties have also justified their proposal by giving municipalities more opportunities to decide on their own services under self-government. However, the government is taking away from the municipalities the money that should be used for early childhood education. This is not an increase in self-government but a tightening of the belt which leads to inequalities between municipalities and people living in municipalities, as we have seen from the decisions already taken by the councils. The Government’s decision to destroy the great welfare state’s achievement, subjective day care law, will complicate the daily lives of day-care centres, families and children on a very concrete level by increasing group sizes and making daily day care from fragments. The decision to cut early childhood education is very difficult or even impossible to find anything positive. It increases the inequality of children, complicates the daily lives of families, burdens day care workers and thus also children, increases bureaucracy and, in the long term, becomes more expensive economically than these savings now allow. In addition to these, it also undermines the labour market position of women and gender equality. Mr Razmyar spoke just before my own speech about the unanimous collapse of experts from the Committee on Culture and Education in the Government's early childhood education policy and this law. It is incomprehensible that the consultation of experts with representatives of the government parties seems to be of little value, and even mockery has been heard in this Chamber today from representatives of the government parties about expert consultations. This is a very sad day for our children, for our families, but it also shows some problems in this process, if really expert opinions, which seem to have no value whatsoever when we are here to regulate such an important issue and law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u138	Mr President! For Christian Democrats, this legislative amendment limits the right to day care to part of the issue of ensuring the quality of early childhood education in the future. It is also important for us that this is indeed mentioned in the law and also in the committee report, stressing that early childhood education must always be organised at the current level, if it is necessary because of the child’s development, the need for support or the family circumstances, or otherwise it is in the best interests of the child. I believe that this point will certainly be carefully considered. That is what I want to believe, because we still have very good early childhood education professionals in Finland to assess these situations. For example, the situation of immigrant children has been highlighted in many speeches: it is often the case that when you come to Finland, both parents are unemployed at home. But surely this is the exception to their situation in life. So for their benefit it is important that they receive a full amount of early childhood education and that they also have the opportunity to receive language instruction at the same time and to be part of that group of children. We also see this situation in the sense that, when assessing this quality of early childhood education, account should be taken of what has been raised in the report, in Opinion 2, in other words, these human resources must also be considered in the future, because early childhood education professionals have been afraid of situations where the groups of children may grow at their worst so that the three nurses may actually have 39 children. In that sense, this quality of early childhood education is certainly no longer possible in such a large group. Rather, it is then considered that no one gets hurt and in some way can pass that day. Of course, the municipalities now have a great responsibility in the way they deal with this situation. There has been a lot of talk here about whether this is now a savings law. Perhaps at this point it could be said that these figures, which have also been raised in the committee's report, are somewhat confusing when it is estimated that the savings potential could be around 62 million, some of which will then be divided into municipalities and part of the central government shares, and in these estimates the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities points out that the savings potential would be 36.7 million, or almost half of the amount of the figures underlying the government's proposal. In that sense, I also understand the criticism that has been raised here specifically against this Savings Act: are all the savings that this is supposed to achieve? Here too, while listening to early childhood education professionals, concerns arose as to how the municipalities will then be able to anticipate the number of children, for example, due to part - time parental shifts in the next week in day - care groups. I asked how much sooner to inform you at the latest that the child is coming for treatment, and I was told that a week earlier there is such a general rule that is being pursued. It can be quite difficult to move to the day care side of the day care system very quickly, if, for example, a person who works part-time in a shop receives unexpected job offers or, for example, there are shifts and so forth for those working on the health care side. It is precisely these different changes in working schedules and other or these savings potentials that have been placed on the basis of this legislation that are likely to crumble in that practical life. Indeed, it is important for us Christian Democrats to be able to pay attention to this quality. In that sense, the two statements raised by the committee are very good and worthy of support and we believe that they are at the heart of this issue. The maintenance of a child’s place of care will be secured even if the need for care changes, and the different needs and life situations of the family will be taken into account. The fact that the family really retains the choice of whether child care takes place on a daily, part-time or part-week basis is also extremely important. In that sense, it could be said that with a little minus we can support this. We only hope that these statements will be well taken into account, and in that sense the quality of early childhood education above
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u139	Mr President! In early childhood education, it is likely that there will be as much shaking change as the primary school experienced in the 1970s, and it is not just operational or financial changes. However, this government proposal is undeniably based on a weak budgetary position. The proposal allows municipalities to reduce the costs of early childhood education, but this is not required. It is therefore up to the municipalities to make the savings come true, and it is quite true that it has already been seen that this whole saving potential will not be realised. In the preparation of the Early Education Act, the network of experts has been widely consulted and they have understood their concerns about the impact of the reform. That is why I proposed in committee a statement calling for an overall assessment of the impact of the various reforms on children, families and also on equality and for this overall assessment to be taken into account in the reform of the early childhood education law. This statement was adopted in committee. In order for municipalities to succeed in implementing the new law on early childhood education in a tight economic situation, the importance of assessing the need for services and expert service guidance must be emphasised. In implementing the reform, municipalities are required to take into account the child’s interests and the needs and wishes expressed by the child and his/her parents or other guardians. If necessary, each child is entitled to early childhood education also on a full-time basis. There has been great concern about the practical implementation of the reform in the public debate. The predictability of family choices has been seen to be challenging. The possible additional work in day-care centres caused by the reform, for example, when designing and monitoring work shifts or the content of activities, has also been worrying. Mr President! These challenges led me to find out what these structural changes could mean in early childhood education and what solutions could be offered to the concerns raised by the reform. I'm glad there's one. A few municipalities started experimenting with the possibilities of digitalisation in early childhood education a couple of years ago. Children arriving in day care in Jyväskylä, Oulu, Kaarina and Liperi, for example, are equipped with a clock card, which will be flashed on arrival and departure of a smart phone as a reader. In addition to treatment hours, the mobile application records e.g. care contracts, contact information for parents, photo warrants, allergies and information on who can apply for a child from the day-care centre. Several municipalities have even begun to be interested in reforming the day care fee to reflect the actual hours of care. But even without an hourly billing, municipalities have received many positive effects from electronic accounting. It's a relief to have a plan. Staff working hours have become available for actual educational work. Child care days have been reduced as if by themselves, and clear savings have also been made. I have mapped out the experiences of day-care centres in e-booking, and they are only positive. Daily recording enables more efficient delivery of routine work. Recording and real-time data speed up day-to-day tasks. The service will be more efficient, quality and safety will be improved, and the needs of the service users will be better met. Everyone’s well-being is increasing, and savings are also generated at the same time. Electronic recording of presences is a digital solution that should now be able to be replicated and widely used by experiments. According to the Government Programme, a culture of experimentation is one of the cornerstones of policy reform. A culture of experimentation is born of desire and courage to experiment and to choose different and new approaches. The starting point now is a stronger and more systematic reform of activities on the basis of the knowledge and vision of experiments. Experiments and ideas such as those mentioned above should now be supported. At first we need a small financial investment from the municipalities, but above all from the staff we need enthusiasm to learn a new thing about everyday life. With the reform of the Early Education Act and the digitalization of the entire human life cycle, it would be an easy new practice for everyday life to be implemented nationally. Through new practices such as e-booking, municipalities have a good opportunity to succeed in reforming early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u140	Mr President! It is very good that this issue is being discussed in depth, because today we are talking about a very fundamental issue. Early childhood education has been identified in many studies as the most effective and cost-effective way to ensure the well-being and development of children. Early childhood education is always primarily the right of the child and only in the second place is it possible for parents to go to work. The limitation of the right to day care excludes children who benefit from and need full-time early childhood education, as it is psychologically unreasonable for many families to explain that full-time care is necessary for a certain reason. This also stigmatises parents and families, as it requires that the parent and the family individually show that they need special support. I hope that the municipalities now have so much expertise and know-how that no questions will be asked. If the family brings the child into full - time care, then the family needs it. If we are too rigid on this issue, the child will not be brought into day care, and it can put pressure on child welfare, for example. Another problem is that if parents freely choose between part - time and part - week care, the groups of children will be varied when children arrive and leave at different times. This will increase the number of everyday social relationships, and this will put a strain on the management of the community that is just developing for children. All the time changing groups make it difficult to organise sensible group activities. Adding to this confusion the government’s decision to increase group sizes will make child - oriented implementation of early childhood education quite impossible. At worst, the situation in day care centres may be such that in the morning we will see what group the child can fit in today. In the future, there may be as many as 39 children in the group, and each of us understands that such a large group cannot be in the best interests of the child. I am particularly concerned about the various learners, the children with sensory hypersensitivity and the so-called nepsy children, the children with neuropsychiatric symptoms, who are thought to total about 25% of all children. In particular, they need quality early childhood education, but for them increasing the size of the groups, increasing the commotion, constantly changing the group and reducing the calming embrace are causing particularly much discomfort and anxiety. I'm afraid this will show up in a few years' time in the school world. According to international studies, investing in children is a very productive measure for public finances and society. One euro invested in early childhood education will produce EUR 7 for society in the future; it has already been mentioned here several times. In 2011, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child called on Finland to prepare a new law on early childhood education, which strengthens the perspective of children’s rights so as to improve the coverage and quality of early childhood education, inter alia by increasing the number of staff, limiting group sizes of day-care centres and ensuring the continuity of the care relationship. The changes planned by the government contradict these recommendations. We are going backwards in the exercise of children's rights. To sum up, this unauthorizedly ill-prepared bill, in which experts are not wanted to be consulted, poses serious problems with the Finnish early childhood education system. It undermines the quality of early childhood education, puts children in a position of inequality and increases bureaucracy and unnecessary consideration by the authorities. Many municipalities have recognised these problems and decided not to restrict subjective day care rights and to increase group sizes. I greatly appreciate those decision-makers who had the ability to put the child’s interests first. The Sipilä Government Programme promises to introduce an assessment of the impact of decisions on children and the family. The purpose of such an assessment is to determine how the decision to be taken affects children. However, no impact assessment has been carried out in the present decision. Finally, Mr President, the hourly billing referred to by Mr Sirén in day care would have been a much better way of making the necessary savings, if the government believes that they are necessary. For example, I know from Liperi that very good operating models have been set in motion and savings have also been generated. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u141	My esteemed Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Finnish day care, early childhood education deserves praise in many respects. We have a very high level of early childhood education, and it is important that it should also be developed in the future, and I welcome the reform of the law on early childhood education. Although this work has been a bit of a tatter in time, it has progressed and is now moving forward with the second phase of the reform of the early childhood education law. It is valuable that every child will retain the right to early childhood education in the future. The subjective right to early childhood education is the right of the child to receive high quality early childhood education on an equal footing, and this will therefore continue to happen. It is also the right of children to have more extensive day care, and that right will also be maintained when the best interests of the child so require. So it's not the family interest. It's the child's. Mr President! The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has done a thorough job, and I am a little surprised to hear this debate in time: is some of them concerned with the right of the child or the right of parents? In particular, it wakes up at a time when, for example, the proportion of children in early childhood education among the population aged 1 to 6 has varied between 59 and 63% over the last ten years, i.e. not all children have been involved. It may well be asked if this is the case, then, of equality between children, when some have not reached that early education. I think it is quite right not to make it compulsory for all children, but to give families the opportunity to make choices in such situations, for example when one of the parents is at home. As a former teacher, at least myself, I remember the moments when children waited for the holidays together, for them to get out of kindergarten, for their own parents to be on vacation. And now, as a young father, I have experienced for myself how my own little children expect the moments to be away from that day-care centre and spend a day with my father, if not another day. They are also valuable moments for the development of children. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that this will bring savings of approximately 36.7 million. It has been underestimated here, but this is what the Association of Local and Regional Authorities says. Here too, a lot has been said, including the previous speaker, that expert opinions have been ignored. However, it is stated here that “in day-care centres 20 hours of early childhood education per week, according to expert advice, there is a sufficient number of people who have been well implemented in order to achieve the objectives of the Act on Early childhood Education”. Sweden has 15 hours. I don't know where that 40 hours comes from. Why does the opposition not require 80 hours or 60 hours? It is always a figure that has been chosen, but 20 hours, according to the experts who have been called for here, is sufficient. But it is important to bear in mind that we do not have all the children involved in early childhood education. I myself am in favour of volunteering, but with it as low a threshold as possible, and I therefore hope that municipalities will open up different models of early childhood education. Open day care is a good model for that. This hourly billing is one way to make families use treatment more courageously. For example, we used half - day care with our own family when the other child was at home, which was excellent for the other child. He received that active activity at the day care center, and he had professionals raising it for half - day care. Mr President! Finally, it would be my wish that, at some point in Finland, we should be able to find a model for this 20-hour period of active early childhood education to be free of charge for all children and to collect fees for periods outside it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u142	Mr President! I asked for a reply because I wanted to comment on this speech by Mr Heinonen when he spoke there about the necessity. As far as I am aware, no one has suggested that early childhood education should be compulsory. I have never heard such a speech in this Chamber. It is now a matter of concern that the freedom of choice of families is being restricted — that is what this is all about — by creating quite significant practical problems for certain families as regards the running of families’ daily lives, and also limiting the freedom of families themselves to choose how they want to take care of and organise the education of children. Mr Heinonen then commented on this report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in relation to this part-time management that, if implemented well, it can meet these educational objectives. One of the key problems in Finland at the moment, however, is that we do not have any such established part-time care system, i.e. those practices now need to be created completely new, and a significant number of experts have commented on the fact that it will not be easy or possible if this treatment is carried out during the part-week period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u143	Mr President! Let me repeat what has already been repeated in this Chamber. When you go to these OECD countries, 75% of 3-year-olds go to early childhood education, 88% in EU countries, 68% in Finland 3-year-olds and 75% in 4-year-olds. This is lower than in other EU countries, and it means that we currently have that freedom of choice. Families, like you, decide how best they work and what is best for families. But here, as has been said so many times, and as Mr Andersson has said many times here, we are now limiting this freedom of choice to families, increasing bureaucracy. And perhaps those savings come from reducing the number of kindergarten teachers. I do not think it will do anything to improve the quality of our early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u144	Mr Räsänen, last reply before the debate on Heino.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u145	Mr President! After all, the right to early childhood education is not explicitly removed by this proposal, but continues. But if you look at this full-time day care, early childhood education, it has not originally been built full-time in Finland, specifically from the need for early childhood education, but from the needs of working, from the perspective of the parents’ working day. And here I think a good point of reference is to think of schools and elementary school children who have 19 hours of education per week. Then they may have afternoon care, but it depends specifically on the needs of parents in their working lives. If the parents are at home, then they will not take the child to the afternoon care, but only in those situations, then, as it were, small schoolchildren are absent full - time if the parents need it because of working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u146	Absolutely the last response, Mr Kontula, and then Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u147	Mr President! I would just like to say briefly that the municipal day care system has, after all, been based primarily on child welfare and social considerations, not on this day care function, nor on the early childhood education function. They're both later to cancel.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u148	My last reply, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u149	Mr President! In fact, I also highly value Finnish mothers and fathers and the educational work they do. I think it's worth a lot of money. I do not like the approach that the next of kin should be an official, but, yes, in a situation where there is a mother or a father at home and everything is in order, so to speak, a good place for a child is a home of its own. After all, this right to early childhood education remains with every child, and that is an important value. But full - time care when one of the parents is at home is somewhat the same as not offering night care to all children at the moment if they do not have parents working at night. So it's the same logic that we offer the services that families need, and we trust at least a little Finnish mother and father. I trust them a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u150	Mr Kiljunen, the real speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u151	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, early childhood education should be developed to support the well-being of the child. However, the government's proposal to limit early childhood education to children due to savings has an entirely different effect, i.e. the opposite, and is a very short-sighted policy. The limitation of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes will increase inequality, reduce the quality of services. More than 90 percent of the experts thought the proposal was bad, and it is truly amazing that despite this, the Coalition Party, the Centre Party and the Basic Finns do not want to listen to the experts, but are implementing an entirely different family policy. Government parties are looking for savings that will be very expensive in the future for an individual child as well as for society as a whole. These changes in practice undermine equal early childhood education, which has been one of the pillars of the Nordic welfare state. We know from research that high-quality early childhood education supports the development and learning of children and prevents exclusion. Early childhood education helps the child to form peer relations and develop social skills. It has a particularly important impact on the integration of children with an immigrant background and on learning language skills. The government now suggests that the child’s right to early education should depend on the life situation of his or her parents. The savings in day care exclude the very children most in need of quality early childhood education. In the future, the government's legislative changes will enable part-time children to have up to 39 child teaching groups. Children of the same age may be in different sizes depending on whether the child is in the full-time group or in the part-time group. In a large group, nurses are more burdened and have less time for each child. This will also affect child-adult interaction situations, safe and good relationships. In addition, from a child’s point of view, the number of interactions is increasing, and children’s groups will be in a state of constant change. This reduces the possibilities for individual contact and attention of the child. This will also affect the development of social interaction between children and thus affect the child’s own social understanding and development. Many government savings laws will inevitably have the effect of increasing poverty among families with children. It is clear that the savings in early childhood education will deepen this problem. The limitation of the right to early childhood education significantly hampers the participation of parents working on a temporary basis in the labour market. Young mothers are particularly affected. If a child of an unemployed parent has been transferred to part-time early childhood education, it is more difficult for his or her parents not only to look for work but also to accept the job offered. According to the presentation, early childhood education can continue full-time if necessary due to the child’s development, need for support or family circumstances. However, this entry is a line drawn in water, which will certainly be observed in different municipalities in a very different way. According to the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, the procedure for assessing the need for services must not, under any circumstances, lead to the stigma of the family, but who guarantees that this will not happen? It is likely that there will be great uncertainty among the guardians as to the circumstances under which their child will retain the right to wider early childhood education. For the municipalities, this evaluation procedure will undoubtedly involve more work and administrative costs and increase bureaucracy in a completely different direction from the government's objective in terms of red tape dismantling.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u152	Mr President! Of course, this bill is about the savings law, and I'm sure none of us will deny that. And, of course, cutting down on certain services and certain opportunities that have been achieved is not acceptable to any of us, but I think that at this point we are moving in a very right direction and painlessly in relation to the nature of the matter. As has already been said here, at the time of the creation of this possibility of child day care, the aim was to support the access and employment of the child's parents, especially mothers, and I still believe that this is a very central role in our day care and early childhood education system and that it will continue to serve after this government proposal has been made. As far as the quality of early childhood education is concerned, now that opportunity, note. The subjective possibility of day care for 20 hours remains, and that quality is a fundamental issue. The training of kindergarten teachers will be increased, and I think that this early childhood education plan is an excellent tool that has not been used everywhere so far. It provides an opportunity for individual attention to be given to the child in early childhood education and then, as has already been said here, to repair and grasp the potential problems and concerns of its family and also to provide support for those families who need it. The right for all children is maintained for 20 hours, and, as the Committee on Education and Culture also stated in its report, it is necessary to focus on support for those who need it in particular, and to focus on the quality of early childhood education, which is of the utmost importance. With regard to the proposal itself and the criticisms made above, I believe that this has now been a vain attempt to stamp out the different parents and, as it were, to label, in their own way, the parenthood of the unemployed — those who, in my opinion, do not have the blessed position of being in employment. However, it should be remembered that this bill of law has, as has previously been the case with opinion polls, the strong support of quite a few Finns. And I welcome Mr Heinonen's view that the next of kin is always good when he is older and not an official. That is a good starting point. In my opinion, this bill, despite its specific challenges — in the case of the Savings Act — gives the right signal that the primary responsibility for education always lies primarily with the parents or parents of the child, but the public system still allows it to continue to provide the necessary support, even now that this bill has been put into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u153	Mr President! However, a little was replaced by the view of the representative that when dealing with the Savings Act, savings could be justified by whether polls are behind these savings or not. Yes, it is up to Parliament to assess whether these savings will be made or not, and then it will be more ideological whether or not these proposals will be made to the general public. However, I do not think it is very good that we are talking about the cultural rights of children under the age of seven, that we are asking, on the basis of opinion polls, what decisions we are taking. To that end, there are expert consultations, and I think it is quite a big deal that we did not have any experts in the committee, for example in the section on the education of state resources, who thanked this proposal, not even for the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, because there are so many problems involved. Yes, our job is to solve these problems here, not to look at what the polls say.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u154	Mr President! This is a rather peculiar view that the majority of Finns would support this proposal. So do you, the representative, believe that the majority of Finns believe that the group sizes of our kindergartens should be increased? You talk about quality, you want to invest in quality. How will quality be achieved if, for example, in part-time cases the group size increases to up to 39? Can that quality be made possible? Mr President! One more thing. There has been no talk here of what this bill brings to private service providers. This blending of part-time and full-time: can private service providers no longer do their own work, guarantee its quality? This is a very big question, and there are a lot of speakers on the government side on behalf of companies, but it has not been taken into account in this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u155	Mr President! Here's what I'm gonna do. Mr Kiuru raised the question of the child's cultural rights, and I would now like to hear the views of the opposition as to whether you do not think that 20 hours of early childhood education per week is enough for a child who is really between 0 and 6 years of age. Do you not think that this is enough because day care and early childhood education are two separate things? Day care is free to play, to eat, to be without guidance. What is your view of this? In my opinion, 20 hours of cultural activity for a 1-year-old, 2-year-old and 3-year-old is certainly quite sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u156	In the meantime, Mr Honkonen, who has begun this debate, will be able to respond, and then, for the new reasons that have arisen, the discussions will take place afterwards. — Now Mr Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u157	Mr President! As far as the criticism of this speech is concerned, the messages I have received in the field and in general support the idea that we must also make policies that respect the values of our citizens and decisions that respect the values of our citizens. At least so far in that field I have not come up against the opinion that opposes this proposal, rather encouraging speeches specifically about people's responsibilities and underlining a certain level of responsibility. In my view, the starting point must be that, when the 20-hour period is right, the early childhood education provided must be of high quality. I wonder, as Mr Kärnä said earlier, what justifies the fact that it is enough for a seven-year-old to be 20 hours old, but then for a six-year-old and a five-year-old not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u158	Mr President! For the first time in this Chamber, it was now clearly stated that this is also a choice of values, an ideological choice. We in the opposition have considered this to be a savings law on your side, which experts oppose and say that there will be no savings. Let's take a look at it right, left, middle, top or bottom, and this won't save us any money. And now you are telling us that this is a value choice, an ideological choice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for telling us this now, because we believed that this is a savings law that does not treat children properly. You see this as an ideological matter, and you are not on the side of the children here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u159	Mr President! I will return to these polls. They have made a point of saying that when you have parents who are at home, whether a child will then have to have the right to full - time care. In those polls, the vast majority of Finns have felt that there is no need. In other words, if parents are home and are able to take care of their children, society does not need to provide full-time care, but parents can take care of the children themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u160	Mr President! This is Mr Honkonen and also a little representative to my ears. Räsänen spoke in that tone as if this responsibility to raise Finnish families with children was not quite clear to whom it belongs, and that is the main responsibility, of course, for parents. I have somehow understood from these speeches that, as Mr Honkonen said, this bill would like to underscore that responsibility for education, and I would draw attention to the fact that, as I understand it, there is no such problem in Finnish society. There is no very recent information unless the Committee on Education has received such information, but in 2004 about 10% of the parents whose parents are at home for various reasons are in full-time care, and there is a legitimate need for this. We do not have such a problem that we should underline who is responsible for raising children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u162	I will give you a few more words. I would also like to point out how long this debate has taken place. I think it is important that Members should be able to make proper speeches, so that there is room and room for them as well. Of course, there may also be answers, but they are of sufficient length.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u163	Mr President! To this I would say that when you appeal to poll results, surveys, it would be good to be consistent even with the ongoing debate and the government proposal. I do not believe that there are any surveys in this country where the majority of Finns would think that the groups of 39 children are all right. If you now want to base your decision on the majority of Finns, it would be good to remember this side too. I personally do not put much emphasis on these surveys because my potential supporters are, in any case, a minority and are in favour of subjective day care for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u164	Reply, followed by Mr Jarva, then Mr Kiuru, Mr Andersson, Mr Pakkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u165	Chairman! Reference has been made to these polls, and it is extraordinary that we do not listen to the polls here. In many other political matters, the opposition can then use them to say that this is the view of the majority. But the experts themselves have also said that this 20 hours really is sufficient for a small child, and indeed day care is perhaps also a little separate. It should also be borne in mind that, in the same context, children's opportunities for open day care, early childhood education, club activities, family home services are being increased significantly, in particular as regards the freedom of choice of families to care for children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u166	Mr President! I personally have no problem with it if someone wants to use statistics and tell me what the vast majority of the people think, but I think that the front line of your parliamentary group was to justify this savings as a saving rather than an ideological choice of centre. If this is an ideological choice for you, then now you are really in deep water. I have always believed that the centre has seen that Finnish day care is important. It is with this proposal that you are going to scrap our family day care system, for example, because these family day care providers are leaving at least 25% of their pay when this proposal goes through. We have not had part-time care as such a well-known system in this country. You create a part-time care system for day care, which means that you also want this 20 hours to be enough for all children because of club activities
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u167	Mr President! Representative Kiuru now started talking about this day care, even though early childhood education has been mentioned in the past. I would like to reiterate this question: do you think that this proposal undermines the rights of children to early childhood education, because it does not specifically do so, because there is certainly enough time for early childhood education for children aged 0 to 6 this 20 hours per week? I'm sure it's perfectly enough. Of course this is an economic issue, it is also an ideological issue, it is intertwined, and no one here on the government side has denied that it is a savings law. But that saving is for day care, it is not for that early education, even though you claim otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u168	A direct question to Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u169	Well, it's easy to say that it is targeted. It is precisely the fact that we have had a full-time system in place in the past, which assumes that every child has a right, a subjective right to early childhood education. During the last government term, this was changed by the new early childhood education law. Every child received a right, a cultural right to full - time early education. Now you're going to start by saying that some of the kids don't have to do it. I find it truly wonderful to say that after this four-hour period there would be nothing left in the so-called early childhood education of day care, which would be early childhood education, that it would be just care and care. This is not the case, because during the last term of government it was applied for with cats and dogs, which part of the day the child is in kindergarten, is education, which is care and what is treatment, and it was established that it is the whole thing in which this is happening,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u170	And I'm going to debat this part. Congressman Honkonen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u171	Mr President! There is still no clear answer to the fact that 20 hours of early childhood education is too low a week when it is not once for a school-age child. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u172	Mr President! First of all, 20 hours, which is where the government representatives are now clearly clinging to. The opinion of those educational science experts who have commented has been linked to the fact that theoretically 20 hours may be sufficient, but there is currently no system in Finland in which early childhood education was built within the framework of this part-time care system. It's the first "but." The second is that the government's proposal still includes the possibility of part-week care, which no educational expert has supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u173	Mr President! It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. It's the law. This has to be done. You're talking about parental freedom of choice there. You have often spoken here today about the need for parents to have freedom of choice, but at the same time you are taking away that freedom of choice. And from there, no one has yet answered whether it is acceptable, according to the Constitution, whether you consider it appropriate and acceptable that children in different municipalities are now in an unequal position, depending on where they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u174	Mr President! It has been said here that one cannot look at this issue from an ideological point of view. Of course, you can see, as I can see, that the opposition is also looking at this issue of day care, full-time care in the municipal community. It has been your ideological solution for decades and you have been driving it all along. At this point, I think it is important that Mr Honkonen's view is as valuable as your ideological view. Last season, this compulsory quota for home care support was being driven and you said that family day care and these rights were being restricted, but the reality was that the elections were so close and that is why the proposal in the last period fell on you and not for economic reasons. Of course, even the ideological alternative has been clearly highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u175	Mr President! Firstly, I hope that the views of the opposition will not be generalised, because there is also an opposition party here who supports part of this proposal, namely this limitation of subjective day care rights to 20 hours. I would like to say that this is an excellent opportunity to build the child-driven 20-hour early childhood education that is about the same length as that in primary school, first and second grade, that school day. And then it must be remembered that for those children whose parents need that full - time care for work, study or other reasons, this too is guaranteed here. In this respect, I think that this proposal is excellent. Of course, I myself am concerned that these groups will increase, but that is another matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u176	Reply Mr Kiljunen, and then I will give Mr Jarva the floor. Then we'll go to the list after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u177	Mr President! First of all, Mr Pakkanen, our party has accepted the subjective right, the right for every child to subjective day care and early childhood education, and our starting point is from that, not from the forthcoming elections. The second point is that when we talk about 20 hours of early childhood education, it may be enough for some children, but we cannot assume that it is systematically enough for all. This law obliges that if a child needs more than 20 hours of early childhood education, it must be justified. On the other hand, this is a completely different starting point for this whole issue. It has also been said that one of the reasons why last season, under the leadership of the then Minister, Mr Kiuru, was not to move to 20 hours was that we cannot now, for example, oblige municipalities to provide warm food to children, because this 20-hour limit makes it difficult for municipalities. So that's how it brings inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u178	Replying, Mr Jarva, and then we will move on to the list of speakers with the same names that have now asked for answers. So far, 18 speeches and 100 replies have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u179	Chairman! In order not to spread false information, all Finnish children still retain the right to this subjective early childhood education. That's the 20 hours. That is the limit of 40 hours now — there is a limit at the moment — and 20 hours is the limit now in the future. And, contrary to what is also implied, all families who are in need, either because of their own situation or because of their family situation, will continue to receive full - time care. Families who do not need it do not receive that public service in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u180	Mr Mikkonen, the real speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u181	Mr President! According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, decisions on the child must be made primarily in the best interests of the child. According to the agreement, the child must not be discriminated against on the basis of any aspect relating to himself or his or her parents. Early childhood education is the right of the child, which should not depend on the work of the parents and their changes. In its proposal on the removal of subjective day care rights, the Government has completely ignored the rights of the child. The only justification for limiting the right to day care is savings. No other point of view has been taken into account. That is what the representatives of the government parties have admitted, and perhaps that is why, in this debate on the part of the government, attempts have been made to put into the mouths of those who are opposed to the law arguments that are not true. This isn't about home care and day care. Child care forms from home to day care and family day care are equally valuable. It is essential that the family can choose a suitable treatment for them themselves, and in many families these also vary at different times according to the family situation. The government proposal removes this freedom of choice from the families where the parents are at home. What the opposition has wanted is to preserve this freedom of choice for families. Nor is it a question of 20 or 40 hours of treatment. Between these hours, there are many different options that depend on the situation of the family. It is very questionable whether this proposal will make real savings. Day care plays a preventive role in child protection, which is also defined in the law in 2014. Day care must provide special support to promote and safeguard the growth, development and well-being of children and support parenthood even when the child or family is not the customer of child welfare. Indeed, subjective day care is likely to be the main reason why, unlike in other age groups, the number of child protection cases between 0 and 6 years of age has not increased. In all other age groups, the rise has been severe, but the number has remained stable for day-care-age groups. Day care is therefore a relatively inexpensive form of support. The average cost of full-time care for the year is EUR 12500, while institutional care for child welfare costs EUR 104000. Government parties have asked whether all families should be granted subjective access to full-time care and whether it is not enough to have it for child protection reasons. It is therefore essential to understand the preventive role of day care. It's hard for a lot of us to ask for help, even if we need it. We want to survive and we often persist as far as possible. The same is true in many families. How many parents apply for full-time care on child protection grounds, even if there is a need? Will we only seek help when the situation is too advanced for the well-being of children and the family? Nor do we know which factors are accepted as grounds for child protection. Who determines how and at what time? Are these the same everywhere? Is a self-declaration enough? What kind of certificates are required? How are we going to follow this up, or are we going to follow this up? For example, are these acceptable reasons: child in need of special care, parents with no language skills from a foreign culture, parents who are unemployed, parents who are exhausted from baby care, playable age in need of their friends? When talking about day care, the government has often underlined that families know best when and what kind of care a child needs. But is it true that the government does not consider this to apply to the families where the parent is at home? When subjective day care was created in the 1990s, a strong reason for this was not to want the assessment of social causes to be marked by children and families. Now they want it back? We know that, as working life becomes less and less permanent, periods of employment and unemployment will vary. At the same time, if a child has to change from day care to home care, from one group to another, it is not in the best interests of the child. From the perspective of immigrant children, full-time care is also important for language learning. Mother fatigue and the need for older children for playmates of their age may be the reason for those on maternity leave and child care leave. One practical reason is that municipalities have not been able to guarantee children access to a familiar old group after a possible stay at home. Money spent on services and early support is a profitable investment. In the years of the recession of the 1990s, those who operated on basic services for children had to pay several times as much for psychiatric services for children and young people. The only reason for the bill is to save money. It's very questionable. On the other hand, the impact on the well-being and equality of children and families is clear. This bill should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u182	Mr President! This year we received a new law on early childhood education, which was expected by a large number of early childhood education professionals almost throughout their work history, especially if you have worked on the public side of a long career. This new law on early childhood education emphasises pedagogy, but it makes no difference if child groups are enlarged. In this case, kindergarten teachers do not in practice have the opportunity to invest in pedagogy, but rather in large groups units should focus on ensuring that all children can be released safely and unharmed at the end of their day-care day. Even digital leaps don't help much. In public day-care centres there are ordinary children from ordinary families and also children who need a lot of special care and rehabilitation, children with child protection and children with immigrant background. Thus, as a result of the limitation of the right to day care, part-time children of 20 hours per week, for whom, among other things, early childhood education plans must be made, should be added to this reality, and before that, these children should be sufficiently observed by kindergarten teachers to ensure that the statutory early childhood education plan has any real basis. If I think of children three years old and a group of at least 24 children, then in the day-to-day 4 hours of a 20-week part-time child there is little more than eating, dressing for outdoors and coming out and getting undressed — that's where the four-hour early childhood education went. The number of children’s interactions in a large group may go beyond their tolerance. Think of the full - day children who are in it — including part - day children — with a maximum of 39 children every day, and then there will be one group of 20 - hour children from the beginning of the week, and at the end of the week a group of part - day children will change when they come to the end of the week, if 20 hours are not divided into a daily care period, but will be used for half a week. This proposal for a decision favours private day care centres, where more hours can be bought with money, and in the future the children of families who work on the public side of day care would seek to work on a temporary basis. Does the director of the day care centre then assess and select who has the right to full - time care and the real need for it? On the basis of what studies would the need for day care be assessed for each of the different children and their parents? What time would this new assessment take place? What about the decisions of the authorities, which would be needed more frequently than before? This system increases work and red tape in municipalities when decisions on a part-time or full-time day care place are constantly being taken on the responsibility of officials and changes in child care periods according to the employment situation of older people — so much for those who are in the norm. This can happen in the municipalities by delimiting the right to day care proposed by the government. At the same time, resources will be transferred from care and education to bureaucracy. Mr President! In several municipalities, the subjective day-care right has been used mainly by families who have wanted to have a place in the same day-care centre with a larger sibling even after maternity leave or after work-linked leave, confident that the day-care place will also be arranged for the smaller child, as long as you remember to submit an application as soon as the child has received the name. So the children of these families have been extra in the day care center for a few hours a month in their own group. This arrangement has been functional and balanced for all families and children. So, has this — the discretion of parents and the competence of day care professionals in municipalities — not worked well for us so far? Has the Committee on Education been consulted by experts who would have said that parents cannot judge whether their child needs day care and early education? I don't think there's a statement like that. Early childhood education services and the interests of public staff are being cut roughly. How will early education staff cope? Does it promote quality early childhood education? Mr President! I will end by saying that I have a first-class job in child care for many families. The increase in the number of children, together with the deterioration of the benefits for staff, is unacceptable thanks for this valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u183	Mr President! Early childhood education by professionals supports parental education, which is a legal priority. So the right to early childhood education is not being removed from anyone, but will continue to be safeguarded for all children. The Government's proposal for subjective early childhood education ensures the right of each child to at least 20 hours of early childhood education, which, according to experts, is sufficient to achieve the educational objectives aimed at children. When parents are unable to take care of the child at home because of work or study, or the family situation or the child’s best interests, full-time care is still offered to the child on a very low threshold basis, if necessary. It is therefore important to note that if a child needs more than 20 hours of early childhood education because of his/her own or family problems, he/she will continue to receive it. With this proposal, families with children will now have the opportunity to receive assistance and support for their problems more comprehensively. This will now be better achieved in the municipalities where the needs test is introduced in terms of the number of early childhood education. And yes, this is a well-meaning and secure bureaucracy that requires more of the staff in charge of early childhood education in the municipalities. Together with the family, they go through a wider family need for early education and the need for personal support. Through this model, we will be able to tackle family problems more effectively as soon as possible in the future. It is better to bring up difficult issues than to have fewer opportunities to face the family situation with the use of an automatic early childhood education service. Bureaucracy is not only a bad thing; it must be dismantled. However, there is a need for this standard for both savings and welfare reasons. In the future, the child’s place of care will not be moved as the work situation changes for the parents. In the event of unemployment, the child’s place of care will also remain for a couple of months, so the care system will continue to be flexible in this situation. The Government also wants to develop open day care and early childhood education services in which the whole family can participate. This is particularly important for families to be involved in these. What is remarkable then is that part-time and full-time care children are now in the same day care centres, so it is not new for professionals. This is precisely where flexibility in the ceiling for group sizes is needed in order to organise them appropriately. This change has also been widely commended by the civilised leaders of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u184	Mr President! First of all, I'm gonna start with the most important one. In connection with this draft law, the Constitutional Committee dealt with the constitutional challenges of the draft law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that this bill is also accompanied by an assessment of the size of the group, which the government, under its own power of regulation, had carried through in the Government so that the Parliament could not then take a position on these group sizes. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that, in connection with this draft law, it has become clear that these group sizes are involved and must be brought to Parliament's decision by law, as it was known during the last term of the Government as regards the dimension of the Act on Elderly Services. In this regard, we are now in a situation where the government, with the support of the MPs of the government parties, is today pushing through a savings law whose effects will only have to be assessed later. This is acknowledged by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy in its own report, where the Committee on Education and Rural Development states that these problems will be examined at a later stage. I think that this is a rather peculiar solution from the point of view of Parliament's authority. They will therefore be examined when the legislation on the conversion of the group size regulation into binding legislation becomes subject to parliamentary scrutiny. In this context, we come to a situation in which we all have to take a stand as to whether there will be a situation in Finnish day care, that when the day care system now becomes both part-time and full-time — which we have not had in practice — it will result in situations in which we have 39 children in part-time care, because this old set-up record that part-time children have a different dimension than full-time children can be introduced. If anyone thinks that the municipalities know exactly that this will not be the way to treat children, at the end of the last government term a study was carried out at the Ministry of Education to determine whether the largest municipalities in Finland are taking advantage of this type of dimensioning of part-time children, and in the light of that study it became clear to the government partners at the time that we are facing this dimension, which is different for part-time children and full-time children. It is therefore important that the government partners should have taken a position on whether you have been presented with all the matters relating to this legislation which, as such, should have been examined in the context of the further development of this legislation. The bad preparation shows that it has come as a surprise to the government parties that these group sizes related to day care could not be decided by the Government decree, but must now be brought to the decision of the Parliament. This second reading, which has been promised but has not yet been confirmed by the Minister, is intended to change three things. There were three things left out of the reform of the law on early childhood education in the last government term: three-tier support for day care, strengthening pedagogy and reducing group sizes. At that time, I visited the city centre and the people of Peru to ask whether they would have been prepared to join in the voluntary work, where a road map could have been drawn up for the whole parliament to see how group sizes could be reduced in early childhood education in this kingdom. But it was surprising that the opposition parties at the time were willing to join the Greens and the Left Alliance, but the Centre and the Basic Finns decided that they were not interested in this work. And I was not surprised at all, because you were already wondering that this point could be saved. It is a real pity that we are now in a situation where these group sizes are significantly enlarged and, at the same time, the subjective right to day care is restricted and the image we have of early childhood education is very different from that previously believed in in Finland. We have believed in full-time early childhood education. We have believed that early childhood education is also taking place in the afternoons, that early childhood education is therefore a care, care Mr President! Since I asked to speak in the Chamber, one more thing is very brief. — I would also like to inform you that the drafting of this legislation also changed what is the dimension of part-time children. The law and decree suggest that a part-time child is a five-hour child per day. In the context of this subjective day care court proceedings, no position has been taken on what these children who have come under the restriction of the subjective day care right, whose day is four hours. So they're still not in part-time day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u185	Next up, Congressman Kontula. Let us try to reach that 5 minute reference time in all the speeches, just as the instructions have come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u186	Mr President! I am not quite sure that everyone here has familiarised themselves with the studies that have gone through, who are these parents who keep their children in full-time positions despite being at home. Parents who are at home while in day care can be divided into four groups: child welfare, migrant background, unemployed jobseekers, maternity or parental leave or child care leave. It is clear that day care for children in all these groups will have beneficial effects for the economy. I'll be more specific. Children in child welfare may be spared more expensive child welfare support measures, such as family work, custody or outside the home. It is precisely among children of day-care age that a significant increase in custody has not occurred in the same way as in other age groups. Properly timed early support also improves their children’s school capacity, basic safety and ability to interact with other children. If there are problems at home that cause the need for child protection, society’s responsibility for education is very high. The transition to a subjective day-care right behind the child protection threshold can be expected to have two-way effects, both of which may occur: on the other hand, some children who clearly benefit from day-care are excluded when parents do not wish to prove their need for child welfare support to the authorities. On the other hand, even those whose need is, in fact, day care, can be sought as a customer of child welfare if the gate to the day care place passes through the customership of child welfare or similar to it. Well, what about families with immigrant backgrounds? For them, the acquisition of language skills and the integration of cultural codes and the establishment of friendships with children of mainstream background is very important for their future school career. Involvement in day care activities will, at best, also contribute to the integration of parents into Finnish society. In Finnish society, the job of an unemployed parent is to make every effort to regain employment or retraining through active job search and various rehabilitation measures. In the future, adult work and education careers will be increasingly fragmented and labour market positions will vary rapidly. Dismissed household debtor and a parent who is distressed and insecure in many ways about his future is not always the best nurse for the child. Moreover, children cannot be required to move from day care groups, day care centres and, as a result, friendship and care relationships to one another according to the way the labour market throws at their parents. Nor is it reasonable that changes in the daily life of a day - care center should repeatedly overlap with crises in the home. The last group, the children of parents on parental leave, is the smallest of these full-time care groups, only about 3% of all children in day-care. In practice, therefore, the majority of such children are already voluntarily in part-time care or at home. The limitation of subjective day care rights in this group will therefore not result in significant cost savings, but it could make everyday life considerably more difficult for individual families. The limited number of families who are already taking full-time care during parental leave suggests that a reasoned decision will be reached. Perhaps the parent caring for the baby is tired for one reason or the children of the family are difficult to care for. A child can also miss his/her friendships and does not want to change groups after a smaller sibling is born. The impact of the reform on the employment of mothers of young children is difficult to assess. However, it can be predicted quite safely that commitment to part-time care will make it more difficult to find a job and increase the temptation to stay at home full-time. This is especially the case when the alternative to staying at home is the usual combination of unemployment, study and temporary work for mothers of young children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u187	Mr President! In this debate, reference has been made on several occasions to the views of education professionals on 20 hours and its adequacy to meet the educational objectives of early childhood education. However, I think that we should look at this government proposal as a whole and at how these same educational professionals have commented on this particular proposal and on the whole of early childhood education, which we are now dealing with, and they are not in favour of this model of part-time care now contained in this proposal. It does not have the support of these experts. They are also not in favour of increasing group sizes. This has been estimated by all experts to make it much more difficult to meet these educational objectives. This early childhood education system in Finland, as has already been said in several speeches, is a well-functioning system at the moment. It takes into account the fact that families themselves are best placed to assess the best way to care for and care for their own children. It also observes that children are individuals, that the individual needs of a child may change, and that family situations may also change over time. So we currently have a flexible system that takes family needs into account, from which we are now moving to a limited model of this kind, which will increase family problems to reconcile child care and everyday and work and study and so on. This change, which the government is now proposing, will lead us to move from a system in which this flexibility and freedom of choice are guaranteed to a system in which all parents no longer have the right to decide what the best treatment and length is for their own child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u188	Madam President! There has been a debate here about whether this is an ideological bill or whether this is going to start with the need for savings. I believe that both elements of this bill can be found, as has been shown in this debate. I would remind you that the savings potential of this proposal is estimated at around EUR 62 million, and it is estimated that some 11,100 children, or 6.7 per cent of children in full-time care, would be transferred from full-time early education to the 20-hour early childhood education right. But I admit, at least, that this issue is also influenced by the ideological starting point of how we think about the child, the upbringing of the child and the importance of the family in caring for the child. I still do not understand that if we have 19 hours of education and education per week in primary education, why on earth would it not be enough for children under 7 years of age, given that there are even very small children here? I still ask: does anyone here think that a child between one and two years of age would need 40 hours of vocational early childhood education a week?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u189	Mr President! Mr Räsänen has pointed out several times today that in Finland first and second graders have very short school days, as if it were proportional to the number of these hours in day care. I would now like to question this issue a little bit if you think we are in an ideal situation at the moment with regard to primary school pupils, because very many discussions have just discussed the fact that the days are far too short in those primary schools. Children are far too lonely at home when the days run out at noon. Children are home alone all afternoon when it would be much better for them to spend afternoons in various arts or sports activities at the school. So we do not have an ideal situation at the moment with regard to the first and second graders, and I do not hope that it will be compared with that in this case, that is what we should be trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u190	Mr President! When Mr Räsänen asked what was so different about this when compared to schools, we do not think that Finnish comprehensive school would work so that children can choose when they will come. It is not possible for me to skip Monday and even Tuesday and do my basic education compulsory so that I visit Wednesdays and Thursdays and Fridays, and of course this child would not decide for himself, but his parents. Nor can we think that such a two-year-old child would think that I am now taking four hours of this subjective day care right guaranteed by the government and going home for the rest of the day because he cannot decide for himself. It depends on the labour market status that children have. And yes, I must say that this is particularly worrying if Kela's leading researchers ask whether this country can no longer afford all day to offer this pedagogy to those children who, in any case, have to be somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u191	Reply, Mr Räsänen, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u192	Mr President! This is not about children who are alone at home, because it is about children whose parents are at home. In that sense, I do not think that we can compare now to those small schoolchildren who need that afternoon care. I also think it is important for small schoolchildren to receive afternoon care if their parents work a full day, but certainly in those cases, if their parents are home, they will be happy to take them home after a short school day, and such children will not remain in the afternoon care. In other words, it has to be admitted honestly that this full-time day care system has left the very need for parents to work, the need for full-time care during that working day. It has not started from the fact that a young child needs 40 hours a week of early childhood education. That 20 hours is enough for a very small child to have an early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u193	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u194	Madam President! I came here earlier and I thought I would come here so that that timetable would not limit my speaking time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that this confrontational debate has shown that not all representatives have been familiar with the opinions and views of experts, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in the Committee on Education, and it is a pity that this debate goes to what I think is right and how my children have been raised. In my opinion, this is not the way to make legislation, but to give citizens and municipalities, in this case municipalities, the foundations and framework, the legal obligations that we have to ensure for every citizen, every child, the subjective right to early childhood education, which leaves the need for a child, and that is what this is all about. Therefore, if we go to limit this need for a child, then we will have a different view. You can clearly see that all the experts who have been in the committees see this in a very different way, such as the representative. Mr Räsänen said in his own speeches. Mr President! From a very young age, the government puts children in an unequal position. That is one of the fundamental issues that we are dealing with at the moment. This millennium has seen reports of families where one parent is at home and the child is in full - time care. Very often, these situations have been motivated by strong reasons for the need for full-time care, such as parents’ mental health problems, language illness or the need for special care for seriously ill siblings. The government apparently assumes that these families will automatically come for the right to full - time care. However, it is known and estimated from the Child Welfare Department that parents themselves rarely seek support and help, although the family situation may very often even require and require it. A lot of people want to take care of themselves, and they're afraid of being branded. They do not want to tell about their own life situations, their fatigues, their relationships and other life situations, especially those in early childhood education, and the people in the industry who might then seek that help in the future. In addition, care and part-time care and larger groups will make it more difficult to identify the child’s problems and provide support to prevent the need for child protection. It is therefore easy to predict that the government's measures will lead to an increase in the need for child protection and a stronger legacy of incompetence. In other words, now that the government is restricting the right to early childhood education, there is a great risk that instead of preventive low-threshold services, we will eventually switch to demanding special services, which may take years and have multiple social and individual costs. In practice, the Government Savings Act becomes more expensive for society. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, when the government made savings, the Social Democrats always sought to ensure that they were not targeted at the most disadvantaged. For example, we were able to reduce and add a tax deduction to compensate low - income families. It is regrettable that there are no parties in the current government that have the will to take similar soft measures. On the contrary, this saving, the limitation of subjective rights in early childhood education, is targeted specifically at children who are already at risk and risk of exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u195	Mr President! The big problem with this bill is who defines the child’s right to full-time care and on what basis this definition takes place. It is difficult for an outsider to determine this need and, on the other hand, it may be difficult for a depressed or tired parent to require full-time care for his child even if the child needs it. In fact, even Minister Grahn-Laasonen has said that families must not be tested on such a matter: if the family brings the child into full-time care, then the child and the family need full-time care. If so, why do we need such a bureaucratic system that will only bring more work? Another major problem is the growing number of groups where children change all the time. This does not allow, for example, the learning of community or social skills. Thirdly, I am very concerned about the survival of those who work in early childhood education. Many people who work in early childhood education have told me that they are the ones who are most tired of the conflict between professional identity and reality. They know what good and high-quality early childhood education is, but too large groups do not make this quality work possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u196	Mr President! Perhaps, first of all, as a comment on the few details raised here: In a way, it confuses the way in which we talk about early childhood education being everything that happens in kindergarten. Yes, I am sure that is what is widely understood. But we do have professionals in the field who have been referred to many times, and we have reason to be, because they do a practical job, they can rhythm the day so that it has a clear pedagogical early childhood education part, then there is eating, naps, playing outdoors, the normal everyday day-care center where the rotation of pedagogy and care has been done by professionals so that the early childhood education part also takes place for those who continue to participate in the day-care centre, for example only part-time. With regard to this immigration, which I raised in my previous speech, I think it is very important that this immigration should be used as one of the criteria for access to full-time care, the role of children of newly arrived families, above all in terms of culture and language learning. I see early childhood education and our entire day care system as a key element in this, as we are currently considering extensive integration. But perhaps in this bigger picture, Mr President. I welcome the fact that these open early childhood education services have also emerged here. For a long time, the implementation of this law depends on service guidance in municipalities, on what families are told about different options for child care solutions, about the whole palette. On the other hand, there is also this big project, the government's top project on the programme for moving children and families, in which the practical measure is to allocate, among other things, an appropriation to the Good Social Welfare Act last season in respect of municipal home aid for families with children. I would like us to see day care as part of a large service palette for families with children, and specifically for children, provided by the municipal court.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u197	Mr President! It has been said many times that the Finnish economy is in trouble, and now we are in a situation where we have to make cuts to save the welfare society. I believe that we need to start with something that does not lose anything irrevocably but may take away the benefits that have been achieved which have been mentioned here at least once before. I said earlier that three-hour regular high-quality early childhood education brings benefits, which is not significantly increased by increasing time. And I would ask everyone to note that the law before us guarantees everyone 20 hours of early childhood education — the same amount as in primary school, which will then be arranged for the afternoon care and club if necessary. For children whose parents' resources are insufficient, support and access to full-time care must be provided, just as the government's proposal takes into account. There is concern here that children are labeled as needers. I believe that this concern is futile. Support needs will continue to be directed to support, just as is currently the case. Good models already exist in Finland, such as the Children for Speech model, which systematically explains the needs of the child and family and then directs the children and families who need support. This is how I feel about seeking normality in the lives of children and families. A child’s right is to have his/her own parents’ time and education when his/her parents are not working or studying.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u198	Mr President! By first thought and discussion, though in the marketplaces, the idea of this presentation seems somewhat understandable. Yeah, why don't parents take care of their kids if they're not working? However, I believe that today we are having an historic debate, an historic debate, because in 20 years' time we will see where this decision will lead. It is up to each responsible decision-maker to examine the matter. Opinions can be expressed on a reasonable basis, but when you listen to experts, when you look into this matter yourself, you understand that this is a much bigger issue. After an expert consultation, I have several concerns about this presentation. Perhaps the most important and important issue is the increase in the inequality of children, which, almost without exception, was raised in the speech of each expert. According to all studies, early childhood plays an important role in the development of social competence and pedagogical skills. In fact, the fact that in today's society the importance of social skills has increased significantly was also highlighted in the expert consultation, and that is what daycare centres and teamwork with other children train these children. The difference between part-time and full-time is not insignificant. Representative Saarikko said that it is the professionalism of the kindergarten to rhythm up the days so that all that a child needs to support its growth will continue to be acquired. The fact is that the rhythm of the day care centre must be very clear. It is in the interests of children that certain events take place there every day at the same time. What will happen to the child who always leaves, for example, before the time of common and free play begins? I already have a very recent experience of this, in which the social skills of such a child were raised and he and a special kindergarten teacher learned social skills. It was tried that the child had a problem, but when the child went to work after the mother went to full - time care, the problem disappeared. It turned out that he had left the day - care center at the time when the time of free play began. He had never been part of those groups and was thus left out and, as it were, was labeled as lacking in his social skills in some way. Even today, researchers say that children who come or leave at different times are experienced as guests in groups of children, even in a way that does not involve them in the games. In an expert hearing, researchers pointed out that this is not about children being evil in some way and not wanting to involve other children in the game, but is a natural tendency and reaction, a way in which children act when it comes to a more foreign child in relation to children who are then familiar with them. The stamp is a big deal in this society. Now it is particularly marked by the unemployed and children who need more help. Every time a person feels different from others, a feeling of stigmatisation arises. For a child, it is very important for him to have to explain the difference. When others have to explain why there is a need, it causes stigmatization. The differentiation of the service system was highlighted: the fact that in the future full-time care which is not available on the public service side can be purchased from a private service provider for day-care-age groups. Then I must say that these savings are absolutely questionable. A decision must be made on everyone according to good administration, a decision that can also be appealed against. This will mean that 90% of the current full-time care applications and decisions will be made, i.e. only 10% of the current decisions will be considered. Finally, a decision which discriminates against children should never be taken for reasons of austerity. This is already important for the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u199	Mr President! I have been following this debate with great interest. First of all, it has come to my mind that it is very important that the debate is proportionate. Now I think that the opposition is making this issue worse. This is not an end to the right to early childhood education. The subjective right to 20 weeks remains, and that is the point, and then, if necessary, there are 40 hours. That threshold is not high. In this debate, we are concerned about this basic attitude. Our Constitution says this: "The public authorities must also support the ability of the family and others responsible for the care of the child to ensure the well-being and individual growth of the child." That is the basic responsibility of parents or those who are responsible for the care of the child if there are no parents. The closest relative is not an authority in principle, but the responsibility rests with the parents. When you listen to this conversation, if you don’t know what this is all about, you can easily come up with the view that parents will no longer dare not put your child in full - time early education. They feel that we can't, we can't give high-quality early childhood education even if they can. Our starting point is to support parents so that they can carry out this task. He's not the closest relative to the government. This is how it's going to be. This does not mean that we do not need quality early childhood education. It must be and is a very important part of our welfare system in society. I can say that personally. My children have been in municipal day care and also in family day care, and it must always be considered according to the situation of each family, and it is very good that we have a good system. Then, when we talk about subjective law, if the starting point is that, even if there is no need, there is a subjective right to 40 hours of early childhood education per week, but then when a child becomes a little older, he has about 20 hours of subjective right to basic education when he comes to school age, then we have to look at these things in a proportionate way. And I still say that it is very important that we have a skilled, skilled group of early-school farmers capable of providing high-quality early childhood education and must be supported. But if the arrangement becomes the only right way for the child to spend most of the waking time in municipal early childhood education and the parents do not get to spend much of the time together with the child... In other words, we will be discussing this in a more or less proportionate way and not making unnecessary confrontations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u200	Mr Töll, whom I very much appreciate and appreciate after this speech, must now say: I have been following this throughout this debate, sitting in my seat. You said the opposition was exacerbating. When I listened to the experts in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and quoted Mr Kurtla earlier, who said that this proposal was dangerous, I would say that perhaps there has been – and I do not want to start any more bonfires or anything else – in the speech here, however, there has been some ideologies on the part of the centre and the government. Yes, from the opposition's side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u201	Two more replies, Mr Kiuru Krista and then Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u202	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that you said, Mr Tölli, that the children are so much in day care. Now it would be a good thing for this fact to be corrected here as well. I have heard it before in this debate. Today, Finnish children, according to the 2004 statistics — because we do not have any more recent ones, and experts have criticised us for taking decisions in Parliament on the basis of 2004 statistics — were 26 hours in practice per week in day care, not 40 hours or more. As if it is implied that children are more in day care than parents are at work. That is not the case. It is terribly important to note that if we want to save and think that subjective day care is now this great public illness that we are trying to cure, then I think it would have made more sense to have some sort of payment policy or something else to direct that parents do not use the 100% day care right for their child but genuinely take care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u203	I'm the representative. I fully agree with Mr Töll that the primary responsibility for education lies with the parents, but I do not see how it will be supported if our day care system is made more bureaucratic, more difficult and less responsive to the changes in the life situation of the family and its child, as is now being done. In the youth of Congressman Töll, working relationships were long and quite stable, unlike my children when they began to make their own children. Then the day care system will have to react at a different speed if we are trying to create a system that supports those families and is not another additional problem for families. Then whether the definition of subjective day care is a big or a small matter: If you take half my salary, it's a pretty big deal for me. If I only get to the health center every other time, it's a pretty big deal for me, too, even if it doesn't mean I'll never get to a doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u204	Let us take three more replies, Mr Tölli, Mr Kärnä and Mr Jarva, in this order, and then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u205	Mr President! It is very important that this system follows time and responds to the needs that exist at each time and that sufficient information is used as the basis for decision-making. It is very good that Mr Kiuru specified these statistics. I referred to the tone of the debate that has been here, and it must be borne in mind that there is no point of view that the only right way is to take the child anyway...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u206	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the representative so much. I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson for his very constructive speeches. I fully agree that this is where the bridge should be built, but that bridge building requires that we together now recognise that this government proposal does not in any way violate those cultural rights of the child and does not undermine his chances of early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u209	Chairman! I regret to hear that some municipalities are already having problems with these part-time children, that they are not able to achieve those pedagogical objectives. There must be big differences in the municipalities. For example, my municipality is very pleased with how it has been possible to treat part-time and full-time children in the same places. But then, with regard to this bureaucracy, when this standard is being dismantled: I personally am responsible for this, for my part, and I would like to point out to it that, when we were talking about this dismantling of standards in the sitting, Mr Kontula then expressly insisted that this bureaucracy safeguard citizens' rights in certain respects and specifically in such matters as the need-tested issue. This is precisely where the situation of families is safeguarded in the sense that it is viewed through their
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u210	Let us take Mr Salmon's speech at this point and then continue the debate in a moment. But since I was already able to say that we are going to the list, let us now go to the list, but I am sure everyone will be allowed to speak again today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u211	Mr President! When I have listened to this debate in part in this Chamber and in part in the study, there is a real impression that something really dramatic is happening from the point of view of children's rights. Yes, my opinion is that if both parents or one of them is at home and even then they are entitled to 20 hours of early childhood education, I think it is in fact a very good direction to go and the right decision. It must be remembered that even the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been quoted here, that under this agreement children have the primary right to care and care for their parents and their parents, and then there the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that if their parents are working, then Member States should organise such day care. So that deal also starts with this kind of need, and this is good to remember here. After listening to this debate, it certainly comes to mind that this is a rather thought and approach to this issue from different worlds, and I have wondered why this is, and certainly in part there is also such an ideological starting point. I am sorry, but it comes to mind that speeches have been made here on the opposition side, particularly on the left and demarcations, which become such a tone that the parents of children would not in principle be fit to raise and provide that early education themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u218	Let us take three comments here. Representatives Salonen, Kiuru Krista and Representative Kiljunen, in this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u219	Mr President! This is such an inconceivable distortion. So I understand that we justify things from our own point of view, but that there are repeated statements that social democrats think that parents are not good educators — that is not true. I am not saying and I am saying here that the impression that you do not care about children conveys from the speeches in the centre. Mr President! I have to say that I am prepared to join every single representative in the present Parliament in 20 years' time in this same state or in the Chamber and to admit if I have been wrong in these speeches,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u220	Mr President! Well, I have to tell you, I'm a little bit down on you right now. I do not want to have a debate here either as to whether the child is better provided at home or in a day care centre. It has not been a question of this today, but of whether the child is genuinely granted cultural rights — we have hitherto considered that they are eight hours old — because we have seen early childhood education as a whole of care, care and education. And now the whole of education is being limited, and that is why I think it is important that we recognise here that we have different phalanges from different perspectives. And I quote again from what Kela says: it is recognised that the use of early childhood education services for children aged 0 to 5 in Finland is the lowest in the Nordic countries. And this is just a fact, but no one here has said that a parent should not choose whether his child should be at home or not. It's not like we're doing a show on our side that everyone should take the kids to day care. In my view, it is quite incredible and outrageous for the Social Democrats to be able to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u221	Three replies, representatives of Kiljunen, Saarikko and Jarva.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u222	Madam President! There has been a feeling in this debate that, in order for the government parties to be able to justify this situation, they are imposing these charges on the Social Democrats and the opposition and thereby distorting those situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u225	Mr President! Now that the Social Democrats have started to go through this very emotionally, I will say for myself how I feel. As part of the government and as a representative of the government party, I have been prepared to accept and I consider it necessary to balance the economy. These are not all easy ways, and quite a few people have had to go before the mirror in what they think of them. This subjective day care right and its delimitation has not been at all easy for me, but while the committee has been familiar with this issue through experts, who have said critically about this law, and the preparatory phase that followed when the law has been refined for the better and better, we are not talking about the same type of proposal as the last government under the leadership of Minister Kiuru of that time, so I am going to assume that I trust those education professionals and also those in the social and cultural arenas of day care professionals who go to a day care place with families when they ask for service guidance to discuss what they need. And I am also confident that the everyday life of the day care centre can be arranged in such a way that the cultural rights of early childhood education to which Kiuru refers are not, for example, naps or meals, but the pedagogical knowledge which, yes, is right for each child and at the centre of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u226	There were a few comments here and I will list them here: Mr Jarva, Mr Marin, Mr Huhtasaari and Mrs Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u227	Chairman! I'm wondering about this. When reference is made to these experts, this is still 20 hours, from which the experts have pointed out that it is sufficient for a small child as an early education by a professional early education provider. They have found that it is sufficient for a small child. What is offered as treatment is being developed in a significant way, and the resources are being increased. It has been a problem for families that at present there is no real freedom of choice as to whether or not they can fully care for that child at home. This is precisely what has been the question of why we have so much nausea in young families when they do not exactly get that help home. Especially when a baby is born into a family, you have to deal with those problems. This is an important issue, it is this debate which will take place with families at that stage. I trust families and professionals to see the need for service together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u228	Madam President! Good and constructive speeches have been made in this Chamber today and a little less constructive speeches have been made here. I personally do not like the constant attempts made here by representatives of certain governmental parties to contrast parenting with early childhood education. This has never been the case at any time, as the statements made by the opposition parties should have been constantly heard. We do not put these two against each other, but we believe that families must have the right to choose this need for care precisely according to their own family and their own situation in life. This has been discussed very thoroughly here today, and I hope that you will hear this message now. For example, Mr Kontula made a very good and thorough speech today on what kind of families and life situations would be affected by this restriction, and if you were not here in the Chamber listening, I hope that you will then read it through Parliament's website. I thought it was very good and very opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u229	Mr President! As a parent, I myself wonder what, Mr Kiuru, the cultural rights are, which are missing out on children who are taken care of completely at home or who are only in care for a few days a week at the moment. For me, this decision was not difficult at all. In fact, I have always wondered why, when we have a public service, it is up to us to decide how much to use it. Is the public service not for the purpose that as necessary? Even an elderly person cannot decide whether to go to institutional care or not, but needs to be assessed by a professional when it comes to public services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u232	Mr President! I will take the minute that I have left for this question by Mr Saarikko. I appreciate you very much, Congressman Saarikko, as a Member of Parliament, but now my heart hurt a little. It is true that during the last term of government a reform was carried out as part of such a larger structural policy package, a road map of how to balance Finnish public finances. As part of its whole, the whole of home care support and this subjective day care right were tied together. I, for my part, inherited this whole from the centre of the restriction of this subjective right to day care. I know this really well. That is why I have been here today for the last five hours — five hours soon. And I have to say that this proposal that you brought to Parliament is indeed a different one, and you have paid attention to the right thing. What I do not understand is why you did not inherit even that old base because it would have been fairer, and in that regard I ask these problems: why does a child not have five hours as a right, as a part-time child is defined by law as a five-hour child? You've been cutting out for an hour, too, because the Association of Local and Regional Authorities hoped that the children could come to day care on the morning and evening shift and be able to take care of this job on the conveyor belt. Here afternoons are different in day care for full-time children, and then these part-time children do not fit in with the same rhythm, and their cultural rights are already different in that regard. The committee did not change this position. I understand that from the point of view of stigma,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u233	Mr President! It has now been repeated several times that this 20 hours will be enough and, according to the experts, it will be enough. We are sitting in the same committee and, among other things, the OAJ has said that 20 hours is not enough. If the number of children in part-time care increases to up to 39 children, each of us may wonder if it is a quality early childhood education when there are 39 children in the group at the same time. The rhythm of the day splits up, and thus we also know what these savings will mean in practice. In addition, the number of kindergarten teachers will decrease. Mr Salonen has just made a very good speech about the fact that we are talking about children and their future. If this is a savings point for you, I find it extremely regrettable. We'll pay it back a lot more later.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u234	Then there will be one more reply, and it will be received by the representative, Mr Salmon. Then let us go to the list of speakers, and then you will have the floor again, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u235	Mr President! I would like to say that when there was a debate here after my speech, I think that the child, however, when it comes to subjective rights, is more important to the care, care and education given by his parents than to the day care provided by society. However, I think that is more important than anything else. Among other things, there have been speeches here — and this is where Mr Kiuru said — that the cultural rights of children must somehow be violated when they receive only 20 hours of early childhood education. I do understand it quite differently, so that for children who are not in preschool or compulsory education, however, this is not the type of early childhood education and day care, whatever you call it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u236	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u237	Mr President! I think it's really forgotten what this day care is for now. It is for parents to be able to work, study and, where necessary, study. That's what this day care is for. My sister lives in Switzerland — it's not like this. My cousins live in Germany — it's not like this. We have in Finland, and this is a great thing that we in Finland have the opportunity to take the children to day care while you are working. But if you are at home, the message must be given strong to the children to take care of your child yourself. Children want to spend time with their own parents. I've been working in a day care center, and those kids miss their parents there. And when those little kids are there 40 hours a week, that's a lot. That's one of the reasons my husband took part-time work because I know how hard that week is for a small child. I've seen it at work. Plus, my own kid wouldn't even want to spend three days in day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u238	Mr President! In my opinion, the key words of the debate have been "requirement", "increase in inequality among children", "stamp". However, I am starting from the fact that it is worth saying what is in mind because of my experience in life, and in 20 years' time it will not be possible for the Social Democrats to come here and have a family worth as much, if not more, than others, but it will be agreed that it is for all of us. It's a basic unit. They may be very diverse today, but I am happy to think, at least in my own way, that the family is very important. And in the same context, I am happy to say that what is even more important is that the child has a relationship with adults, preferably with his own father and mother, if that is at all possible, but I have always stressed the importance of parenthood throughout my social activities and do so underlining this too. But the question that is relevant to this debate itself is as follows: This is what has been said in the expert opinion, it was the children's psychiatrist Jukka Mäkelä of the THL: "Traditionally, relatives, other larger children have been central to the educational task. In our society, this support is also provided by the activities under the Act on Early Childhood Education." Then: "The need for support is a personal experience of coping, and it cannot be defined from the outside. If families do not receive the support they feel they need, the risk of neglect and abuse of children will increase. These are the most important factors in Finland that endanger the health of the child, and the development of the child." Then the question is that if we take it as a fact — as has also been said here from the government parties — it was also strongly stated in the report of the Committee on Education — that if parents estimate that they need help with the child’s educational task, they need the right to full-time care, and it should be given to them, then, in a way, why bring hundreds of such a presentation, which is to be brought in different municipalities, in individual day-care centres, unless thousands of such conflicts — I dare say it a little in this way — in which evil, problems arise and where parents whose resources are less powerful will then, in a certain way, suffer no injury to their soul or their empowerment. I really regret that very serious damage can also be done in this proposal, and I am one of those who are delighted that so many cities, including my own hometown of Tampere, were turned down for this government proposal. Finally, whatever Professor Keltikangas thinks, I have one grandchild whose development I have been following, a little over three years old now, and he has learned a great deal in that early education: social skills, physical activity, dancing, language, and so on. In this case, I am surprised by this professor expert.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u239	Madam President! In my opinion, Mr Gustafsson described well the problems we currently have in the services of families with children, and when we know that there are really major shortcomings in the protection of children or, for example, in the home services of families with children, I think we must also take the courage to consider how we set these priorities in the services. So you have to look for savings where you can save without damage and damage in order to invest in those families and children most in need. What has bothered me in this debate is that it has not been taken into account here that in the age groups we are talking about, these children of different ages are in very different stages of development. If you think of a child between one and two years of age and then children between five and six years of age, their cultural needs are very different. I personally consider this government proposal to be a sensible compromise, the end of which is to ensure that every child has the right — no obligation or obligation — to that 20-hour early education. But then, if you think of these little children, one year and two years old, they do not in themselves need early childhood education or some education services; they need care, and above all they need the arms and care of their mother and father;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u240	Mr President! In Finland, 1.2 per cent of GDP is spent on caring for early childhood education. It is much less than in other Nordic countries. Today we had a commendable debate about saving money from whom to save money. If we are already managing early childhood education at a lower price than any Nordic country, then of course our key question here today is what we want from this early childhood education. During the evening it has become clear that many still think that early childhood education is a child of the age. That was once defined from the needs of working life. It must be said that it served at a time when there was genuine access to working life, regardless of gender. But today, and in view of the very historic decision of the last reign, we are talking about the right of all children to early education. We feel that day care is a combination of care, care and education. We cannot tell when care, care and education are involved, but often these elements also go in the same direction. Of course, there has been a big question about limiting early childhood education to whether or not this four-hour right to early childhood education could be available to parents and children when they want to. Many speakers on behalf of cultural rights have left it, as the committee itself states in its own report, that this issue needs to be looked at, and perhaps the possibility of having a child in daily early childhood education might be a priority for these cultural rights. But the reverse is that I myself cannot courageously step into this line, because the fact is that we also have to think about how this stigmatizes the child, that every day must not be included in early childhood education. The big question is that when we enjoy different holidays every year, for example, according to the calendar, does the child have the right to participate in holiday-related projects every day or only on those days when it is possible to be in early childhood education? This seems very cruel, for if even representatives of the government parties admit that all children can have, if the need is obvious, access to full-time care, and then there is no need to cut it. Then I wonder if there is a firm desire that anyone who needs care should be allowed to be in day care, then why is this well - functioning subjective right that people genuinely exercise only about 26 hours a week and 6 hours a day wanted to be limited? I cannot understand that if, however, everyone has access to these cultural full-time rights. When Mr Saarikko just asked the person who signed the debate why or how these proposals differ from those of the last period and this period, or you pointed out that this would be better, I will go over a few more issues so that this debate can then be referred to. First of all, I wonder very much who invented it and who allowed it to go through in the government party that, although the number of hours spent by part-time children is measured in the current legislation for five hours, now we have a proposal on the limitation of subjective day-care rights, which is four hours. No one seems to be paying attention to this. Isn't this a pretty big mishap? What does this really mean? I personally did not want to give up under the pressure of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, because this leads to a change in the status of part-time children so significantly that this learning and education, which has been highlighted in this Chamber, may then be obtained from a so-called conveyor belt: four hours of part-time children in the morning and in the afternoon, others in the same way. But now the big thing is: the Constitutional Committee said that these groups are involved, and it cannot be that these part-time children, which municipalities can put on from the conveyor belt to the morning and afternoon, may be these groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u241	President! We will probably not be able to agree on this, but I would hope that we do not deliberately misinterpret each other. I am truly deranged by the way in which representatives of the government parties can hear that, for example, we Social Democrats would underestimate parental education or educational skills. I am sure we all agree that parents are mostly the best educators for their children, but that is not what we are discussing here today. This law does violate the equal rights of children to early childhood education, as children will have different opportunities to receive early childhood education in different municipalities. Many municipalities think specifically of experts, confident that, despite the government proposal, the child has a subjective right to full-time early education, and now the amount of early childhood education depends on the municipality of residence of the child. But we have also discussed particularly much this evening that this government proposal will increase group sizes, and this is a very worrying issue in terms of the quality of early childhood education. I hope that the representatives of the government parties will agree that 39 children in the same group are simply too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u242	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also been read here, and I hope that it will be read in such a way that we will also see what it contains. However, I would like to acknowledge that, if we did not have a tough state economy and if we had absolutely unlimited funds, there certainly would be no need to limit any rights, that is quite clear. But it is also good to be aware that even in the highest payment category, these day care fees do not cover more than about half of those costs. That is why these remaining taxes are paid with tax money and those taxes are collected from all of us Finns. That is also why it is good to think about what is then necessary for society today to provide service and the necessary service for the development of children and children, and these are things that need to be considered and made with such limitations. When I acknowledge this, I would also like to see the opposition, in a way, recognise that this change is not so dramatic for the growth and development of children as it has been painted here. And I think it would be good if we could recognise that the speeches that have been made that this would somehow stigmatise children are also excessive. On the contrary, we should speak here in such a way that we should not at least encourage this type of activity, and I do not believe that this is why children are stigmatising each other on the basis of the experience I have with the activities of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u243	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Salmon. I fully agree with what you have said here. And when it really is about small children and if the parent is at home or both parents are at home, I think the much more relevant question is why would you want to take your own child to 40 hours a week. That is the essential question, and it is a good thing that we discuss it, because parenting does not improve in a way that the child is away for a day. After all, we now have the opportunity to have that debate and support parenthood here. And still day care is provided as needed. I would also like to emphasise, as I have emphasised before, and Mr Salmon stressed: this is a matter of public service, and other public services are also available as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u244	The reply, Mr Järvinen, and then we will go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u245	Madam President! This comment by Mr Huhtasaari actually sums up a whole core. He asked how parents who are at home even want their children in day care when the problem is that this full - time care for children has guaranteed care, care and early childhood education even in cases where parents do not even have the intelligence to offer that option to children. They have not had to go through anything, but it is these people’s children who are the most relevant ones that have been kept there by the law currently in force and who are at risk of being excluded and often remain in the care of parents who themselves have such serious problems that children suffer even though parents do not understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u246	And yet again, Mr Huhtasaari, whose name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u247	Mr President! Even now we have many children who are not in day care — not at all. Some of them are part-time now. If we want to invest in child welfare, we need to invest in child health care services. The fact that a child is in a day’s day care centre does not change the situation and parenthood of the family or eliminate substance abuse problems or other mental problems. We need support home for those who need it, and that is why this investment in child health care services is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u248	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u249	Mr President! Representative Järvinen raised the issue of families with such serious problems that children need full-time early childhood education and day care, and it is quite true that there are such families. Consider situations such as mental health problems, fatigue, and alcohol problems. But I personally welcome the fact that there is a need and that there are arrangements in which these issues need to be raised fairly. In other words, this full-time need for care needs to be investigated, so it is possible that these families will receive other help when dealing with professionals. If we consider the substance abuse problem, for example, we know that we have nearly 100,000 families in which one or both parents have a substance abuse problem. Yes, the child suffers during the weekend and during the evening and also during the night from the substance abuse problem, i.e. the child’s 40 hours per week in municipal day care, does not solve the family’s substance abuse problem. There's more to it than that. That is why I do not think it is at all bad that it has to be investigated and that we have to seek help. Moreover, if we look at these unemployed parents, I do not think that unemployment in the first place will in any way reduce the ability of parents to care for children in themselves and also to provide early childhood education if we think of young children, but I do welcome the fact that there is this transition period of two months in which the child can still be in the former full-time group before moving to that 20-hour early childhood education group.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u250	Madam President! There is much more expertise in this Chamber than I have in myself, but when I have followed the debate in this Chamber, even though I have already decided to allow better experts to have this debate and to speak, there are certain things that have to be said at the end of this as in their own lives. I have a bad dyslexia, and I am quite sure that professionals in early childhood education will be able to observe learning difficulties even before starting school, thereby making it a much more intertwined opportunity for learning that child. In particular, on this point, I believe that we are now in a situation where we come and we currently have asylum seekers. We may have tens of thousands of people who will be given asylum. If, at that point, early childhood education is made possible for these very bodies, so that it is their right, without having to have a debate on whether they are entitled to it, then risking it with this proposal will make people unequal, especially in relation to families, not just children. We must give all our support and opportunities so that this early childhood education provides opportunities for the development of learning capacity, language learning and the adoption of this social culture. And especially in that sense, this early childhood education and family day care, in the form they are now, defend their place. When Mrs Räsänen brought up the problem families here and said that the problems are not going to go away now, I must say that the possibility of family day care, early childhood education, will certainly support the development of these children, for example one hot meal a day, when the child has the opportunity to have good social contacts in an environment where there are other children, rather than facing the daily problems of the family that may have mental health problems or alcohol abuse, excessive or too little — no matter what. The most important thing is that we now see a bigger picture of how we will make it possible to adapt to this society on this very important issue for us. Is it better that we save now, when we do not know how much we can save, or do we take its safer step and make it possible for us to anticipate that if such a uniform possibility, subjective justice, is limited, it will cost more in the next 20 years? It is now important to think about the child and the family and how much better it is for us to have a subjective family day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u251	Mr President! I am glad that, although it is 8.30 p.m., so many Members of Parliament are present on such an important issue, and so quickly I do not know whether I am right or wrong, but I do feel that we have not sat down for such a long time with a single savings law. In that respect, this is what the Members of Parliament are talking about and why. In this bill, some 50,000, or more than 50,000, were signed by various trade unions who are working in day care, are particularly concerned as to whether we have assessed the whole of this early education in Parliament in a way that will not become a problem afterwards. I think it is quite a big appeal from the national professionals towards the parliament that this study on the whole of early childhood education and its state should be carried out first and then completed. Mr Salmon has already referred to this reflection by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that these groups were involved in this, and said on these group size issues that they should be brought to a decision rather than a Government decree, as is the case with Parliament. This precedent was taken last season in connection with the Act on Elderly Services. In this respect, the Committee on Education has also quoted this position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that when the group sizes of early childhood education are changed they should be strengthened by law. And it is likely planned that in the second phase this would be done. That is why, of course, professionals are rightly concerned that it is only then that the entire cost of this whole package will be covered, because in fact the Committee on Education itself will draw attention to the fact that these problems will be examined at a later stage and then followed up. These conflicting calculations in the parliamentary expert hearing, both on the State Resources section and on the committee's side, as well as the relatively old 2004 statistics, indicate that we may have been mistaken when assessing the actual costs and savings of the Savings Act. That is why I think it is important that, when we make proposals with far-reaching implications, these savings should also have been properly assessed. In this respect, if the assessment of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is based on the fact that these savings are half unrealised in municipalities, it is already a strong enough statement that problems may arise. On the other hand, if these hearings have revealed that children can hardly be treated both part-time and full-time, so that this death letter 1/13 becomes more common, with part-time children in groups of 39 and full-time children in groups of 24, and this is not changed by the government, then we will be faced with a situation of checking this out only when Parliament has access to these group sizes. If it is decided to abandon this possibility of treating these part-time children in such a way as to be unequal in relation to the number of breeders, then we will be in a situation where it costs 30 million to change its 1/13 measure, and there will be nothing left of the savings of this proposal. These have, of course, been dealt with on both the section and the committee's side. Mr President! Then there is one aspect on which very little has yet to be said: it is a great thing that this proposal does, however, guarantee the possibility that the child can stay in the same place of care. But the practical question is that this right is very difficult to guarantee by the municipalities, because, first of all, these situations are changing very quickly. Is there a right to that own day care centre for this one little person? The expert hearings have questioned whether, in practice, this right expressed in the explanatory memorandum can be realised. In this respect, therefore, the question is how this 20-hour right will be put into practice, what kind of bureaucracy it will be. However, if it is red tape, it must be red tape with which to complain. And since this 90% of today's children can now be covered by this right if the situation in their lives changes significantly in the future, then it is quite a big question of how much this bureaucracy itself will cost. Mr President! I still have to say that we have not been talking here for nothing. In fact, this OAJ bulletin is unfortunate for Parliament and its authority. I would like to quote this from the concern I now have about whether this has been genuinely assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u252	Let us try to hold on to these recommended times, because it is a long night ahead and a lot of speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u253	Mr President! I would like to ask why the problem for the opposition is that the child is given more than 20 hours of day care as necessary, that is, more than 20 hours if necessary. Does the opposition feel that children are currently in an unequal position, because now not all children are in day care from 8 am to 4 pm? The situation of children and families is living all the time, even now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u254	Mr President! For more than seven years now, we have been living in this economic downturn, and even tough solutions need to be made. This limitation is one of these necessary solutions. I understand that at least 20 hours will be secured for everyone, the most needy on the wider scale, and I am genuinely a little surprised at this debate when I have been watching it in the study on the radio. If only part of the conversation had been heard, it could have remained in the belief that this would be a truly large - scale upheaval that would put our children at immediate risk. However, since this is not the case, I accept this proposal under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u255	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 12/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Heikkinen will present the document. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u256	Madam President! I would therefore like to present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on a proposal from the Government to Parliament on the amendment of Article 4 of the Child Welfare Act and the Maintenance Aid Act. We have received an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, having heard the experts, we have said the following. This proposal proposes to repeal the provision on the indexation of child supplements. The indexation of child supplements will no longer be carried out. The proposal aims to achieve savings in central government finances. The Government estimates that a total of EUR 64.4 million will be saved from the proposal between 2016 and 2019. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that there have been exceptionally many changes in the indexation of child supplements during the last parliamentary term. The child benefit was tied to the national pension index corresponding to the change in consumer prices from the beginning of March 2011. Prior to that, the Government was entitled to increase the amount of child benefit by reference to the increase in the cost of living by virtue of a legal mandate. However, this is not usually the case; the level increases in the child allowance have been decided by law from time to time. Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health points out that if an index check were now carried out, child allowances would be reduced because the national pension index in 2016 is somewhat negative. Now, as a result of the Government's proposal, child benefits will remain at the 2015 level, and the state budget will allocate less than EUR 6 million to maintaining the level. The committee notes that the total abolition of indexation will, over the years, weaken the real value of child benefit unless the level of child benefit is ensured by flat-rate increases. The decrease in the real value affects families with children on low incomes in particular, as the importance of current transfers in low income families is about three times higher than in other families with children. According to studies, families with families with children are the most affected by the difficulties in making a living. The committee notes that the abolition of the indexation of child benefit does not, however, affect the income level of the most low-income families receiving income support, provided that full indexation checks are carried out on income support in the coming years. The lower child allowance will then be replaced by a slightly higher amount of income support. Deletion of indexation brings into the income support some new families with children from the lowest income families, the most multi-child families and the unemployed and single-parent families. Madam President! The committee welcomes the fact that the government does not propose direct reductions in the level of child benefit and that the draft law has been subject to an assessment of the impact of children in the government's proposal. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the impact of the abolition of indexation on children and families with children is only assessed in the light of averages in this proposal. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the impact of the current proposed index freeze is relatively limited and that the proposal as a whole does not weaken the position of families with children in such a way that it becomes problematic in relation to the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also points out that, in the context of legislation of this kind, it is necessary to state clearly in the explanatory memorandum not only the overall indicators but also the actual impact of cuts on the situation of different families and households. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with this request from the committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it desirable that the deletion of the index should take place on a temporary basis. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that the draft law be adopted on a permanent basis as proposed by the government. Madam President! This report contains a clause.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u257	Madam President! Some time ago, I spoke with an old Sastamala municipal influence, Myllyniemi Alice. Alice is of that age that remembers the day she first held her mother’s hand in line for her first child benefit. He still remembers how big it was in the ordinary working family. He also remembers how hard a political question it was for people to walk in line, calling them parasites and people with society’s money, when they dared to go up and raise the child’s allowance. Myllyniemi's Alice doesn't understand the operation of child supplements. It's hard for me to understand either. I myself have grown up in a family that the school considered to be the poorest family in the district, and we needed every dollar at the time. For my own children, I have cooked oatmeal from bread lines a number of times, and even in that economy, those coins were needed. In 48 C.E., child benefit was regulated by the idea that we need a permanent transfer mechanism from childless families or households to childish families, because children are at risk of poverty. It is still a risk of poverty, even today, and perhaps more than it was some time ago. Since 95 — not every year, but as such a big trend — child poverty has increased all the time. According to THL's assessment, one of the main reasons for the increase in child poverty is the weakening of the purchasing power of social security, which is precisely what these indexal ties have been built into our social security system. We already know from experience that when the index is dismantled in circumstances where it is assumed that prices will rise in most years, social security will fall behind. Every year we cannot decide in this Chamber separately the increases that should be made there in order to maintain that level. Studies have shown that children do not live out of financial affairs in any way, but that children are highly class conscious. They know who's poor and who's really poor. It is also known that the experience of poverty and its marginalising effect have a bearing capacity for advanced adults, as in Myllyniemi. Alice's experiences tell us. Hanna Mäntylä made a wise speech at the plenary session on 10 April 2014, which she concluded with the following words: "When you are privileged, it is difficult to understand the consequences of your decisions for those who have received weaker cards in their lives." At that time, it was a matter of an intermediate issue concerning the status of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u258	Mr President! Increasing poverty among families with children is a serious matter. It is a particularly serious matter for children living and living in those families. The income problems of families with children and the risk of poverty are increased by the unemployment of parents, single parenthood and the large number of children. Single - parent families are mostly hand - to - mouth families, and nearly 70 percent of single - parent families say that covering expenses with income is somewhat or very difficult. The well-being of children and young people is highly differentiated by the education of parents and socio-economic status. The family’s financial difficulties are linked to the nausea of children and young people. Studies show that as many as 50 to 60 per cent of young adults who lived in their childhood and youth during the recession of the 1990s suffer from some degree of mental health problems. There is also a lot of exclusion in this group. Parents’ concern for their own well - being is linked to the financial situation. Children from poor families feel less time and attention from adults than children and young people from families in a better economic situation. Poverty therefore has a negative impact on the well-being and development of the child in many ways. Family insecurity also reduces the child’s ability to participate in the normal activities and choices of his or her environment. According to the report of the Children’s Association — a completely new report from 2015 — the equality of children living in poor families is not realised in Finnish children’s hobbies, other leisure activities and also in school. For example, 80 percent of children in poor families feel that they are limited to hobbies and nearly 40 percent say that they have missed out on school trips. What worries me is that the poor financial situation in families also has implications for children’s friendships. Among other things, poverty exposes one to being tempted. Bullying and being out of the group, missing friends’ birthdays have long-lasting effects on the well-being of the child and the development of a healthy self-esteem. So all of this we know on the basis of research, but what does the government do? In many ways, the government weakens the financial situation of families with children and increases the poverty of families with children. Unfortunately, this bill now before us is just one of many of the many legislative proposals that are particularly bad for low-income, multi-child and single-parent families. The overall impact of savings will be worryingly high.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u259	Madam President! The Government’s proposal to abolish the indexation of child benefit is one of many austerity measures aimed at correcting the weak state of public finances without further assessing the long-term impact. According to expert judgements, the proposal undermines the livelihood of families with children and thus jeopardises the exercise of children's rights, especially for families with low incomes, multiple children and small children and single-parent families. Together with other government cuts on low incomes and vulnerable people and families, it deepens the inequality of children based on their parents’ financial position. Social security plays an important role, especially in the everyday lives of families with young children, and the scarcity of disposable income affects in many ways the daily lives of children and the possibility of belonging to the group. According to a study by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the well-being of children and young people is highly differentiated according to parents’ education, socio-economic status and economic situations. The family’s lack of wealth reduces the child’s ability to participate in the normal activities and choices of his or her environment and leads to the experience of outsiders. Poverty limits the opportunities for children to participate and influence in school, hobbies and the surrounding environment. Poverty in families with children is also increasingly affecting families where parents work. Fragile labour market status, temporary work, rotation of short-term employment and unemployment, and low-paid employment are increasingly causing economic distress in families with children. Generally speaking, the more children and the younger the children are, the greater the risk of poverty in the family. The most vulnerable are single parents. For them, familyhood is also a risk to employment. In particular, it is therefore contradictory that the government proposal estimates that the proposal will also provide some additional income support for families with children. Income support creates a deep incentive trap to which people in a difficult labour market position should not be guided by conscious political decisions. The government should not make a policy of cutting down on primary benefits and transferring families with children to the last discretionary benefit. This solution cannot be considered worthwhile. As the committee states in its report, it is a good thing that a child impact assessment has been included in the government proposal, which takes into account the combined effect of the abolition of the tax deduction on children and the abolition of the indexation of the child benefit. There are now many other activities for families. The Government proposes cuts to general housing allowance and medical allowances, increases in health care fees. The Government intends to limit the right of children to early childhood education and increase the fees for early childhood education. In addition, there are drastic cuts in education at all levels of education. At the same time, the funding of the Youth Guarantee is being pushed down, employment measures are being cut and the rules of the labour market are being weakened and so on. All these activities have cumulative effects on families with children, and the cuts are directed at one or more families. The Government must not propose child welfare or income support as the solution. We believe it is necessary for the government to take a time-out in the austerity plans for children. That is why we propose that the government carry out an overall assessment of the impact of savings decisions on families with children. Before this assessment, the government should not make permanent weakening changes in the benefits of families with children. For this reason, we suggest that the government abandons its intention to remove the child benefit from the index and to prevent a negative index revision in 2016 to freeze the index to the previous level next year. We also require that the government, as part of, for example, the key project of the programme to change child and family services, make a broader plan for improving the overall position of families with children by improving the reconciliation of work and family life, by strengthening the employment of parents, and by developing social security benefits and services. In this context, for example, the structural development of the child allowance system should be assessed and the possibility of raising the minimum parental allowance to the level of labour market support should be assessed. That is why we are presenting
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u260	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There are thousands of parents in the bread queues of young children who are anxious to see when child benefits will come into the account in order to enter the store. The Government now proposes to abolish the indexational link of the Child Subsidiary Act. Therefore, the indexation of child supplements would not be carried out in the future. If prices rise, child benefits do not rise. In this way, the government will cut EUR 64 million from children between 16 and 19. The weakening of the purchasing power of child benefit contributes to the poverty of families with children. Small and middle-income parents have even worse starting points to safeguard the well-being and development of the child. This is a truly sad and grumbling policy, because now a decision that has only been in force for five years is being overturned. The level of child supplements has fallen and the indexing was a step forward to bring it into line with the current price level. Improvements in basic security reduce the dependency of families with children on income support. The Government itself states in its proposal that the removal of indexation will increase income support customers. The increase in income support expenditure is estimated to be millions. The central government and municipalities finance basic income support expenditure with equal shares, i.e. the state makes municipalities pay, even though it has wider shoulders to bear financial responsibility. Still in April 2014, the people of the city centre and the Finns of Peru had another voice on the watch when they left the question of cutting child supplements to the government at the time. They were then of the opinion that 'the decision to cut child supplements is a clear choice of values which increases human distress, especially in families whose economies are tight because of unemployment, illness or other problems. The biggest sufferers are the children of these families." That's how he turned around on this one too. None of the criticisms made during the previous period have been put forward for correction. I did not approve of cutting up child supplements in 2014 and I do not accept their weakening now either. Last year, at the request of the then Finance Minister, Antti Rinte, child benefit cuts were credited to small and medium-income earners with a tax deduction on children. Now the government is not going to continue to deduct children. The abolition of the tax deduction after 17 will reduce the income of families with children. In addition, the government is targeting cuts on families with children from many directions. For example, cuts in parental allowance and holiday surveys, increases in fees for day care and morning and afternoon activities for small schoolchildren, restrictions on subjective day care for children, increases in group sizes of day care, conversion of pre-school care into club activities, reduction of general housing allowance, reductions in employment measures and planned reductions in working conditions, and increases in housing costs affect the daily lives of families with children in many ways and increase inequalities between children. Mr President! In many respects, the government adores Germany. Child benefits in Germany are twice as large as in Finland and are also on the rise. I would like to learn from Germany on this point. The weakening of the livelihood of families with children and the cutting of services put children's rights at risk, especially in the case of families with low incomes, multiple children and small children and single-parent families. What you cut from your children, you cut from your life. Do you in charge of government not realize that when we take care of families with children, our nation will be fine in the future? I support the proposals made by Mrs Kiljune. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u261	Mr President! This indexation of child supplements is now a theme in which it is worth going through a little further, first of all because there are hardly any parties in this Chamber that would be without a burden of proof on this issue. This is also stated in the committee's report, which states that child benefits were long-term benefits which were not index-linked at all. In 2011, the Board of Directors of Kiviniemi put into effect the indexation of child supplements. Then came Katainen’s government, which made a decision that this most recent indexed benefit could be frozen. So, last season, they didn't check the child supplements. Then came Stubb’s government, whose duties — or those of Katainen and Stubb’s government — included cutting the child benefit. So the index freeze wasn't enough. The child supplement was cut. Well, then it was decided to set up a tax deduction system in the context of a very complex and costly tax operation for low income earners, which, although well mentioned here, did not do so for the most low incomes who do not have any income in practice. Then we come to this reign when it came to the fact that this five-year journey of tying child supplements to the index ends completely. I would not dare to say that any of us in any party would have been particularly consistent with the indices of child supplements. At the same time, however, it should be borne in mind that, despite the fact that the opposition has made some drastic assessments here about the increase in poverty in families with children and it is true that these various savings decisions affect families with children in many respects, it cannot be claimed next year that the situation of families will deteriorate, because the National Pensions Index will be somewhat negative next year and means that child allowances will remain at the current level and that the State budget will allocate 5.9 million to maintaining the level. So the current level remains. That is the essential information for next year. At the same time, I would like to welcome the fact that, as a representative of the Government Party, it is not so easy to defend all these decisions here, but I will do so in order for the economy to be balanced for the sake of future generations, and I would nevertheless like to remind you that this government contributed to the election of values and deviated from the previous government's choice of values, that we have not done a direct cut in child welfare. We can be accused of many things, but in this matter, child supplements, we ended up maintaining this universal right, which is a unique part of the Finnish social security system, no matter what kind of family it is. It is, above all, an income transfer from families without children to families with children, and it is good to remember its history. However, as has been pointed out, this attitude towards child allowances and the activities of different parties in different government terms has not been particularly consistent overall, and this system has therefore been exceptionally difficult to predict. I think that's a good thing for all of us to admit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u262	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Saarikko. It was good that this room was going through this index and indexation, its dismantling and cutting. I think it is quite honest on both sides of the government and the opposition when these roles have varied over the years. But nevertheless, I would venture to wonder — if you look at this from the point of view of central government finances — why, in this situation, the government decided that it was expressly intended to eliminate that indexal link in its entirety, since the fact that the index was frozen would have the same savings effect as that which is now apparently being applied for. In that sense, for example, when the previous point discussed whether it was a question of saving or an ideological delimitation, it seems to me that it is now clearly an ideological choice. In other words, it is precisely this index-linked relationship that we want completely, completely, to be removed for some strange reason, even if that index-freeness was achieved in a very similar situation from the point of view of central government finances. That, in my opinion, there is a certain signal here that we want to give, and that is that we do not want child benefits in the future to follow the rise in the cost of living, and in that sense I think that this is a problem. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this point and criticised the fact that the impact on children has been evaluated, but it has been viewed from such an average point of view, and the averages do not seem to reflect the situation, because the impact of the depreciation of these indices is greatest, for example, in families with multiple children and single parents, and then also in the case of the low-income. So it could be said that the best-off small families in this situation are the least affected by this de-indexation. And it has already been pointed out here that when the abolition of indexation is done together with the abolition of this child allowance, this synergy is also such that it should certainly be followed up and evaluated. However, I wondered a little about how this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health says that 'the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the impact of the proposed index freeze is relatively limited', since it is not a question of freezing, but of breaking the link between the index. So now, in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has there been some sort of childhood? However, I tried to look at that statement in the Constitutional Committee quickly there, whether or not there was this 'index freeze' and 'index-removal', these words were used cross-referenced. Now, however, it is clear that this indexation is being dismantled, and I believe that freezing is something else, so that these words have now been used in the committees a little cross-referenced. Perhaps a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be able to open this up a little in his own speech as to why this has been written here. On the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes very well that 'the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health must monitor the effects of the reform, particularly in the case of the most vulnerable families', and it is good that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with this. But indeed the Constitutional Committee also states in its own opinion that the freezing of indexes would have been better than the complete elimination of this indexation. Unfortunately, the representative of the Christian Democrats did not reach the table at that time in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but definitely on this point we are on the opposition's side and we will vote with the opposition, because we believe that this ideological message is here, and that is not what we want in the future, to see the index be the one that determines the level of child supplements, but that the whole commitment is being dismantled. And I am glad to hear that if a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health could shed some light on this, why this 'dependence' has now been used here and then 'freezing'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u263	Mr President! In all its universality and equality, child benefits are a fine and worthy system to demonstrate how many decades in Finnish society have been wanted to appreciate that children are born and that families with children are able to cope. Therefore, even in this economic situation, the government has not wanted or decided, for example, to reduce the level of child supplements by cutting child allowances or converting them into a taxable benefit, for example, or to remove them entirely from the more well-off. As we heard at the outset in that presentation, this indexation might even weaken that situation in the years to come. Child poverty is true and recognised. That is quite clear, but fortunately, well-being, both for children and for families with children, is not just a matter of money. In this unfortunate deletion of the index, however, the government has wanted to invest in services, such as services to be taken home, child protection, and, on the other hand, the whole attitude of the municipalities during this period is very different from that of the last government. In fact, the municipalities must be given peace of work both to focus on this new world of social services and also to provide the services that families with children, for example, use very much. Hopefully, in the longer term, the economy will improve so that child allowances can be returned by rebinding them to the index. Mr Saarikko has already well presented the good history of the city centre in the development of these child supplements. It may have been deliberately forgotten in this debate as well. All of us have done our work on child benefits, but we all understand that responsibility, and that is why it is good that an assessment of the impact on children has already been carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u264	Mr President! The Government is removing the indexation of child benefit. And with this, it seeks to make up for the weakness of public finances, and savings of more than 64 million will be sought. I consider this proposal to be a special one, especially since, according to expert judgements, the proposal undermines the livelihood of families with children and thus jeopardises the exercise of children's rights, particularly in the case of low-income, multi-child and single-parent families. I do not think that the poverty of families with children should be further increased; on the contrary, it should be addressed and improved, especially for young families. The family’s lack of wealth reduces the child’s ability to participate in the normal activities and choices of his or her environment, and may lead to the experience of outsiders. Poverty also limits the opportunities for children to participate and influence in schools, hobbies and local environments. Is this really what the government wants? I also consider the proposal to be contradictory because the government proposal estimates that the proposal will bring some new families with children into the scope of income support. Income support creates a deep incentive trap, so is it really the case that the government directs families in a difficult labour market position through informed choices into income support, on the other hand increasing the cost of municipalities? In my opinion, we have no grounds for abolishing the indexation of child benefit, and this will undermine the livelihood of families in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u265	Mr President! I very much understand the differences of opinion, the ideological or political differences, in relation to these government savings decisions, and I think, for example, that the previous debate here in the long term was clearly one where we had differences of opinion between parties. But on this issue, I find it terribly difficult to understand the social democrats and other government parties of the last period who come here to tell me how now the poverty of families with children is increasing when you were prepared to do a direct level cut last season. That is why, in my own speech, I tried to challenge the fact that, in this matter, we all seem to be a bit of an icebreaker. This has not been the best possible future policy, nor has it been a child-oriented policy for any government in this and last term, in relation to these child allowances, and that is why I find it somewhat problematic that the Social Democrats are now telling us. And besides, for a representative of yours just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u266	Mr President! The power to give the opportunity to act, and yet you were asking an intermediate question in 2014 about cutting child supplements and you were critical of the measures that were taken at that time. Now that you have the power to correct all those you criticised during the previous period, you do not want to do them. Those of us who have not been doing these cuts in the previous period do not have these sins on our shoulders, but we are here now to talk about this as a whole new issue. So I would like to ask Mr Saarikko: when indeed power
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u267	Mr President! It is certainly in principle this way that, as a representative who came to the house this season, you commented on the situation from this moment on, but last season we talked about the very same Finnish families as we are talking about this season, the very same recipients of child supplements, regardless of who is in this Chamber. Our party has made these decisions. As I said and tried very humbly to describe, this is not an easy decision for the representative of the government party, precisely because there has been a particular illogical link between child supplements. However, I would like to stress that we have not been doing any level cuts. The picture of central government finances has also become darker in recent years when these decisions have been taken and, moreover, if something has to be done to justify this, I see this in the broader freeze of indexes, which is now a big solution for state finances in social security benefits other than child supplements alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u268	Mr President! Just as Mr Saarikko said here, it must be admitted that since the 1990s the poverty of families with children has increased, but it must be said that during the last period, first, income differences between families have decreased or are said to have calmed down, and then it must be said that, in the last period, when child allowance cuts were made, at the same time, a child allowance was made for the taxation of small and medium-income earners, which compensates for this child allowance and, consequently, this situation changed slightly differently for them. But it is a fact that in the case of child benefit there is such a thing that there is no logic or long-termness in it, for which we can take on our responsibilities as parliamentarians and parties who have been in different periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u269	Mr President! From this logic: probably a good company was last season when Minister Rinne prepared this tax deduction system for a drastic cut in child supplements to compensate families with children for this, but precisely when it comes to increasing income differentials, this did not apply at all to the poorest families with children who cannot make this deduction. This was already known at the time. And yes, the center was very strongly opposed to this operation last season. It is also good to note that even if this index has now been maintained, the child benefit would not have increased at all next year. If this had remained so that this national pension index would affect this child allowance, that child benefit would have fallen. The child benefit will remain the same size as this year next year,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u270	Mr President! Mr Saarikko is certainly only deliberately talking about child supplements and how different parties have acted only in relation to child supplements in previous years, but the main problem with this government is this family policy package, that is, these combined effects on savings decisions now being made, especially on low income families. In other words, it is not only about child supplements but also about making savings by increasing early childhood education fees, by increasing club fees, you are making savings by restricting the right to early childhood education in a way that will also affect the everyday lives and status of vulnerable families, and there will also be significant weakenings in the education system at all levels, which will also affect young children in particular, so this is the main problem, and that is where the value choices of this government will be very clear. Pensioners and families with children are the most affected by saving decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u271	My last response, Mr Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u272	Mr President! To Mr Andersson, on the left, I would like to say that last season the Left Alliance was consistent in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u273	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u297	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u310	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u331	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u370	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u430	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 11/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u431	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 12/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u433	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u436	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 9/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u437	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 15/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u469	Madam President! I am pleased to say that we can continue with a series of unanimous reports at the end of the day, with the clock almost two o'clock in the morning. I would now like to present the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal for a law amending the Law on Farmers' Holiday Services and the Act on fur producers' Holiday Services. There are three proposals for statements and a number of points and additions to this report. This government proposal has two main objectives. First of all, it is proposed to make changes to the Farmers' Lodging Services Act and the Act on fur producer relief services in order to bring the systems into line with the European Commission's guidelines on State aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and in rural areas. Secondly, the Government Programme has required a saving of EUR 20 million in the costs of the relief services in 2016. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomes the fact that the austerity measures proposed in the draft opinion have been much more moderate than the draft government proposal, since well-functioning relief services are important for the well-being of farmers and fur producers, for working and longer working lives and for reconciling work and family life. In order to achieve savings, the number of farmers eligible for relief services will be limited, the conditions for access to leave and the right to substitute assistance will be limited and the entrepreneurship's own responsibility for the cost of replacement assistance will be increased. Lodging services will only be allocated to farmers engaged in livestock production, and therefore plant farmers will no longer have the right to do so either in the future or in the future. Madam President! In the future, you must apply in writing for leave organised by the local unit. The annual leave application shall also indicate the intended dates of the annual leave. The application for paid leaver assistance shall be made at the same time as the application for annual leave. In principle, it is more economical to organise a holiday, the earlier the dates of the holiday are known to the organiser. The Committee considers that the objective of informing the local authorities of annual leave as early as possible is justified in terms of cost savings, but the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that, in practical situations, it may be unreasonable if the holidays could not be changed at a later stage. The committee considers that it is justified to retain in law a provision which allows for the completion or amendment of an application after the expiry of the application period. According to the proposal, the application for replacement assistance is intended to be made in writing before the start of each replacement. It is intended that the written application may be partially supplemented orally. This may be necessary, inter alia, where, on the same basis, it is necessary to extend the substitute assistance granted. If the farmer is himself prevented from submitting the application in cases of sudden illness, for example, it can be done on his behalf by another authority authorised by him. The requirement for this written application is based on the EU State Aid Guidelines. In this report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers, like the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, that, for the purposes of this provision, not only a paper form but also a text message or an e-mail can be considered as a written application. Such a system has been in place in the search for replacement help for reindeer herders, and that system has worked well. Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has drawn attention to the need to improve the conditions of employment and working conditions for holidaymakers in order to ensure the attractiveness of the sector and the availability of holidaymakers. In particular, part-time work should be reduced. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that the possibility of moving to full-time employment should be explored in the reform of the relief system. It has also been pointed out in committee that there are significant shortcomings in the health and safety of workers, which is why the Committee considers it important that the issues of competence in the field of health and safety at work be clarified as a matter of urgency and that the provisions on safety and control of workers be brought to the level required by the legislation on health and safety at work. The committee is proposing a statement on this matter. Then there are other comments. The committee's examination of the proposal raised other needs for reform in the area of relief services, which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also commented on in its opinion. According to the performance, a family member cannot be used as a vacationer in a self-organized holiday even if he is entered in the advance collection register. However, there is no such restriction in the form of leave organised by a local unit, i.e. a local unit may send a member of their family to replace a member of the family who is on their payroll. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the restriction on the family member comes directly from the requirements of the EU State Aid Guidelines and therefore does not propose to lift the restriction. The proposal includes a proposal to charge farmers a fee of EUR 5 per hour for the reserve provided by the local unit. There are no provisions on reserve in the current law. However, reserve arrangements have been arranged in practice, but practices in different parts of Finland have varied. In order to harmonise practices and ensure uniform treatment of farmers, it has been considered necessary to add provisions on the reserve and the charge for the supervision of automation. The committee considers it necessary to monitor the impact of reserve payment on the use and practices of holidays and to examine the issue in the context of the overall reform of holidays. There is a second statement by the committee on this. In its opinion, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also pointed out the need to increase the number of hours of subsidised paid leave from the current 120 hours to 200 hours per year. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that it is necessary to monitor the adequacy of the maximum number of hours of paid leave supported and the impact of the limitation on the survival of farmers and to consider the need for changes in that number of hours in the context of the overall reform. The committee proposes a third statement on this. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the addition made to section 8. The committee proposes to add to Rule 3 a provision that the local unit may provide for an extension of the period of leave for reasons relating to the protection of animals or the performance of the work of the holidaymaker. In practice, unforeseeable tasks or circumstances may arise during an annual leave or a substitute leave, even if the prescribed or revised period of leave is exceeded. The personal characteristics of the local unit holidaymaker can also contribute to the need to exceed the duration of the holiday. Mr President! Here this report, and I am pleased to repeat that it is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u470	Madam Speaker! The vice-chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has well presented the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendments to the Lobby Service Act, and as we know well, this is a matter of social security for farmers and fur farmers, and this is an extremely important issue today and also in view of the future. When we consider how old the law is in force at the moment, it has been necessary to consider this at least now. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has been well taken into account when drawing up the report. There are good arguments for things that have not been brought to an end. However, I would like to point out one more point which has been left unwarranted in the report: the temporary organisation of this farm for less than six livestock units, or even a situation in which there is a production break on the farm, such as the broiler producers, which means that there is also immediate livestock work to be done. These are typical and different types precisely here on the poultry side, and it would have been necessary to bring them up here for the sake of equality, so that this direction of production would also have been taken into account. But this, like this 120-hour increase to 200 hours, will be followed up in this further work on the overall reform, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will continue to take account of this production break and the temporary decline in less than six animal units. Overall, this report will also provide future social protection for livestock producers and will bring the necessary effort that is also needed in the farming profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u471	Mr President! I am pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health took very good account of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. In fact, there were two reasons when there was a deviation: either there was no money in the budget or there was this EU demand behind it. This is why, for example, our suggestion that in a self-organized holiday, a member of the family can be a holidaymaker when he is in the advance collection register, unfortunately, has not passed, nor has it been this withdrawal of the subsidised leave. But all in all, with regard to the changes that took place in this autumn to this Lomitus Law, we should all be most grateful. It was sometimes a matter of concern that the entire cut of 20 million would be new in such a way that the reduction in the number of farmers would not be taken into account, even if it was a real saving. But it is very important that these worst savings claims are now cancelled, and even though these blackmails are unfortunately coming into agricultural leave, we can now live with this legislation. For example, in crop farms and small livestock farms, this was a dramatic, regrettable change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u472	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Since it is two o'clock in the morning, I will be brief on this very important issue, the issue of leave, which is a key factor in maintaining farmers at work and also in safeguarding animal welfare. This proposal has two main objectives: to bring the system into line with EU requirements and to achieve savings of EUR 20 million. Making changes in the manner outlined in the report will meet both these main conditions in a way that is better for both users and their producers than the first one, even in the consultation round. Unfortunately, in order to achieve savings, we have to limit the number of farmers entitled to relief services, limit the conditions for receiving leave and the right to substitute, and increase the amount of compensation for replacement aid. In this economic situation, savings will have to be made, but it is good that in this context the structural development of the livestock sector is taken into account, i.e. in practice the savings resulting from the reduction of livestock holdings. They and administrative streamlining will achieve most of the savings target of EUR 20 million. I welcome the fact that the report has relaxed and made it possible to apply for leave periods and substitute aid and the possibility of changing the planned holiday periods even after the application period has expired. This is an extremely important issue. I don't think anyone can plan their lives for the day, let alone their farms, for a year. It is good that the impact of reserve fees is assessed as rigorously as possible and, if necessary, changes are made to them. Regrettably, according to the report, the right of crop growers to substitute payments ends and the right of poultry farms to use farm relief services during production breaks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u473	Mr President! Good speeches, and I should like to add my thanks to the fact that the committee in its report has taken the concerns of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and registered them here in its own statement. One thing is precisely what will follow in the future when this state aid scheme has become critical for the EU and now needs to take action to reform our own legislation so that it is compatible with EU law. It is important that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has taken note of the statement made by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, in which these aspects of safety at work have been raised in the draft statement, and, however, the fact that this part-time aspect of the text which has been written in here is that it will be considered whether there will be any further players in this area in general. And I must remind you here too, although it may only remain at the level of speech: this will change the whole system as a whole, since these municipal workers will no longer necessarily be the service providers for this market, because the procurement law requires that the municipality cannot offer more than 10% of its own service production to the private sector, and this makes this difficult. I think it is particularly important that, when this overall reform is carried out and examined, it takes account of the role of this workforce in this change, which it will lead to, and that the conditions for action in this sector still work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u474	Mr President! Although it is two o’clock in the morning, even at this time this bill is extremely important for farmers. Here, too, it is to be welcomed that, in the course of this process, this law on vacation services was significantly improved by what this draft proposal once was, and of course we must thank this parliamentary procedure, but also very much thank Minister Rehula for being prepared to take this bill in a more positive and positive direction and to listen to the views of the field. A few comments on the basis of this report. First of all, it is very positive that annual leave will remain free of charge and will continue to be available for 26 days per calendar year. The second point is: Lodging services are targeted only at farmers engaged in livestock production. In the future, farmers will no longer have the right to vacation services or substitute support. This is a deterioration. This is a problem, particularly in the case of highly labour-intensive farms, which would require replacement aid, for example for family leave and disability situations. It is also a weakness that it is proposed to increase the minimum number of livestock units required to obtain a holiday service from the current four livestock units to six livestock units. This mistreats certain areas of production. This is a clear deterioration, especially at the time of the need for replacement assistance. That is why this committee's position in this report is that the committee considers it necessary to monitor the impact of the restrictions on the well-being and working of farmers and to return to possible shortcomings in the context of the overall reform, to take seriously and indeed to react if it is clearly shown that the consequences are bad. It was positive that structural developments will be taken into account and that only the effects of around EUR 4 million will then be sought through legislative changes. Then this application for holiday services: In the future, the holiday organisation of the local unit must be applied for in writing. Well, maybe we should think about this in Mela or the decree. The annual leave application shall also indicate the intended dates of the annual leave. I understand this proposal from the point of view of the administration. This is unreasonable from the farmers' point of view, and it is an extraordinary thing that the committee considers that, in practical situations, it may be unreasonable if the holidays could not be changed at a later stage, i.e. the committee considers that it is justified to retain in law a provision allowing the application to be completed or amended after the application period has expired. That's an excellent thing. Of course, this too may need to be clarified either by means of a regulation or by means of Melanie's guidance, for example, when the change will have to be made at the latest and so on. Access to end-users: The sector needs skilled holidaymakers at all times. It is a great thing that the committee stresses that the mechanisation and automation of premises would also require more investment in strengthening the skills and skills of the holidaymakers through work management and further training. This is something to be invested in. Then perhaps a fifth case, this fee-paying leaver aid: Article 16b provides that a maximum of 120 hours of paid leave may be granted. When the replacement aid criteria are abolished because of the State Aid Guidelines, it would have been absolutely essential that the committee should actually have started to provide the 200 hours per year that I understand had been put forward by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Then, President, very quickly, the last, field attention. I woke up in section 8c with the feedback from the airport, i.e. these monitoring visits. All in all, what does the monitoring visit mean? Maybe it's her fault.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u475	Mr. Speaker! However, it is very important and good that, following the reforms and changes made by the Ministry and by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health as a result of the austerity pressures and the change in the State aid guidelines, an effective system of relief is still possible. It is perfectly right and entirely reasonable that the right to leave the farm, that is to say, 24/7, is attached to its own activities, and that they should at least be offered these opportunities of decommitment and detachment which are now being offered. It is very important from the point of view of endurance and, at the same time, it is an important opportunity for employment and employment, which holidaymakers bring. It is therefore essential — and I would like to thank both the committee and the minister for that — that we continue to have a system that works despite all these pressures for change. That requirement for a saving of 20 million will certainly be met, and I predict that the restructuring that is currently taking place in livestock production and farms in Finland will bring even greater savings. We will of course find out in the course of next year, but all the signs strongly point to this. That is why it is also important to ensure that when we re-evaluate and reform the Lomitage Act with the technicalisation of agriculture, with automation, with the increase in robotics, this will also be taken into account. It has been well mentioned here that care is being given to the professionalism of holidaymakers, which is also extremely important that we should then have to offer these farms skilled people. President! A few comments on these details. It is important that holiday applications can be complemented in a flexible way. It must be possible. So much unpredictable is happening in this area too that it must not be too rigid. Similarly, it should be noted here that the administrative burden must not increase. I don't want it to multiply. Both the Ministry and Mela must ensure that the policies that will now be introduced following the reform are such that unnecessary bureaucracy and administration will not come into play. I will take one example, the advance notice of self-organized leave. One might ask why they are needed and who needs them. It is good to continue to go through this type of thing there, so that this does not happen. Then, President-in-Office, the final observation relates to what has already been mentioned in the debate, namely that part of the production lines belong to production breaks, and they are, for example, in the production of chickens for fattening. It cannot be that the production break causes holiday rights to be reduced and reduced in some way when there are, however, enough of those livestock units on these holdings. Therefore, the different approaches to different types of production must also be taken into account when it comes to production breaks, so that there will be no losses that the holiday law does not mean.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u476	Mr President! I come from a town that manages vacation services throughout the region, and as a city we have said this, and our point of view was that it is important to continue to maintain this local knowledge. I would also like to highlight the idea that, in further development, we should consider whether the relief service could be part of the services of the Autonomous Community, as it is currently funded by the State and is a supranational service. For example, the cities around the city of Mikkeli are involved here — that is, Mikkeli, Pieksämäki, Hirvensalmi, Kangasniemi, Mäntyharju, Puumala — and it is about 100 employees and about 1400 spaces. And this, if that's what it is, which could be handled perfectly well then by the self-governing district.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u477	Mr President! Over the course of this night, we have discussed very much how the workers are going to be able to cope, mainly when we were discussing the reform of the legislation on work-linked leave. There was a great deal of criticism as to why people start cutting, why they weaken the workers ’ ability to cope. If we were in the opposition now, you can only imagine how much we would criticise this issue and bring up how such cuts can be made, how to weaken the position of workers, farmers so much. This is a good illustration of how we have come into a difficult situation as a government party. We bear responsibility very widely for the affairs of society as a whole. We're on our own cutting a lot. But this is our joint work — we really have to do this now. What's the big deal about this vacation law? Very fearful statements came from the farmer’s field. Fortunately, however, this was made about reasonable so that we could deal with it. There was a special weakness here: one thing we have to swallow is that we had to leave the crop farming work, including in the case of substitute aids. It's a very difficult and difficult thing. Personally, I hope that the replacement aid for reindeer husbands will remain in the current state and that the law will not have to be applied in the future. This committee's report made it very clear how difficult it is to get vacationers, especially when working hours are not full-time. And for those who do not know more about this matter, for the record, the fact that many vacationers go to work early in the morning, does between 2 and 3 hours, goes back to work at night, is between 2 and 3 hours,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u478	Mr President! Again, I must say that the perpetrators of this unanimous report and of the unanimous opinion are apparently also found in the fact that the opposition has been actively involved in this. It sounded like we're having a drink. I do not know how to register them, but I have to say that, if we have to criticise them now — when I applauded the proposals made in the report, that this further preparation has been well taken into account — then I very much regret the Minister’s line, and perhaps in the committee’s report that the aid for plant growers has been omitted from this point of view. It is incomprehensible because those who are active in this sector, and in particular the horticultural farmers, are, in a way, in need of its continued support, precisely in the situations raised by Mrs Korhonen in her own speech. In the same way, without an election speech, it must be said, as a hundred people — in which region there are many producers of broilers — that it is incomprehensible that this did not go beyond the understanding that the production break cannot be an obstacle to the fact that this period of leave could not be put on. In that sense, there is much to be corrected and further developed. Let us hope that the overall reform will be carried out in order to monitor the functioning of this, the survival of farmers, the continued presence of lobbies in the sector, and, in the context of the overall reform, these errors can be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u479	Mr President! Since it is so late, I will only be very brief because I have already spoken on this subject at an earlier stage of the debate and the debate on the budget. However, I would like to say that this is indeed a proposal that has been criticised by both the government parties and opposition representatives, and contacts have come from the field to all the representatives, whether their own or their guests. There have also been such communications that now you even do something when yours do not defend.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u480	Mr President! Mr Taavitsainen asked me quite rightly whether this farming activity could continue to be the activity of these self-governing regions. Mr Myllykoski, I have to say that my personal view is that yes, it can and could be. It is, in a certain way, the activity of the social and health care sector. While it is also an industrial policy, this is also, to a very large extent, social security for farmers and farmers as a whole. While I am standing here, I would very easily think that this could be part of the activities of the provinces, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u481	Mr President! Finally, as Vice-President of the committee, which has presented this report, I would like to comment on some of the points that have been raised. Indeed, in that opinion, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry wanted us to be able to demand in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that the number of hours of subsidised paid leave could be increased from 120 hours to 200 hours. However, it is a savings law, and when it was possible to find very creative solutions, so that this report and, hopefully, this future law will become so human, I would like to continue to thank Minister Ruhula for giving us the opportunity and for his part did everything possible for him to be able to do so much praise across the party boundaries and get in that field. It must be said that in that government proposal in the previous consultation, among other things, the EU's guidelines on military service have been removed, the issue of the death and funeral of a loved one has been removed from this government's proposal. But it must also be said that it has become clear during the consultation of the committee on this government's proposal that Finland has not completely done everything possible in the past for the Commission in order to deal with these absurdities in relation to agricultural planning patterns. Among other things, this requirement for a written application for replacement assistance is based on the EU guidelines, and Finland has not applied for flexibility in the Commission.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u482	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u483	Mr President! This bill and this report propose an increase in the CO2 tax on heating, power plant and machinery fuels. This is also legislation that stings people, citizens, but it is in line with the Government Programme. We wanted to steer the use of energy towards renewable energy, and that is a clear steering effect. It would increase the value of a tonne of carbon dioxide from the current EUR 44 to EUR 54, which would mean an average increase of 14% in total tax rates. On the other hand, this proposal has not halved the CO2 tax on the production of chp, and this will, of course, preserve biogas and the non-taxation of biomass. But the question of CO2 tax should now be brought to the finish line as this reign progresses, for when the compensation for coal is there — it is not really the idea to go through the night at this point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u484	Yeah, very briefly. In the Government's proposal, the price of carbon dioxide ton will increase from EUR 44 to 54 at the beginning of 2016. The primary cause is fiscal. The change would increase annual tax revenue by EUR 85 million. As energy tax subsidies for industry grow, the net impact is around EUR 75 million per year. The disadvantage of tax revenues and environmental impact is the increase in housing costs. The fuel costs of an oil-heated detached house would increase by an average of EUR 75 per year and that of a semi-heated detached house by EUR 20 per year. Housing expenditure of pensioners living alone in an oil-heated detached house is already rising to over 50 per cent of the disposable income. Concern should be given to the impact of the proposal on housing costs and in particular the situation of low-income pensioners. The government is taking a number of negative decisions, which are specific to pensioners, and this direction cannot be considered right. It is justified that the Board of Directors examines the income distribution effects of its proposal and takes them into account in the decision-making process. I shall make a statement in accordance with protest 1. It reads: 'The government requires that the government provide a report on the distribution of income, in particular its impact on the housing costs of low-income pensioners, and takes the necessary action in the event of malpractice.'
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u485	Mr President! Firstly, I support that statement made by Mr Gustafsson. Of course, it is important that we get rid of fossil fuels, but it must be done in such a way that the most low-income people do not suffer from it, especially in a situation like this, and it is therefore important that these effects be investigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u486	Mr President! Indeed, the draft law proposes an increase in the CO2 tax for next year and then for 2017 to facilitate the energy taxation of mines. The price of a tonne of CO2 will increase by EUR 10 per tonne to EUR 54 from EUR 44. The direct fiscal impact is indeed the 75 million, but when the mining energy tax benefits are taken out of it, 27 million, the government will receive 48 million more tax revenue from 2018 onwards as a result of this legislative change. Above all, this concerns the burning of coal. It also applies to the combustion of oil. It therefore supports the use of biomass and low-emission heating fuels. In relative terms, it will also improve the competitive position of natural gas and peat in relation to coal. It is true, of course, that oil-heated detached houses will be reduced by around EUR 75 per year. The heating of a household with coal or natural gas through a district heating network costs about EUR 20 more, but then, in the vast majority of our district heating networks, coal is not used as fuel. There will be no increase in this. Above all, this of course affects the large cities that have been heated by coal, and hopefully there too is now an incentive to switch to bio-based domestic energy sources as heating fuels and therefore to abandon the use of coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u487	Mr President! This government proposal will affect the energy cost of citizens' housing if there is oil heating in a detached house or if there is district heating and district heating is produced with coal or natural gas. However, the impact on the annual level is low in such a way that I do not see that there is a need for specific explanations here. It should be noted that if heating is based on wood-based or peat-based fuels for district heating, tax increases do not affect housing costs at all, and thus seek steering effect in order to ensure this type of fuel choice. Another important element in this government proposal is the return to a level of taxation which is stricter than that of other mining industries. This, too, seems to me to be a sensible thing to ensure the competitiveness of mining in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u488	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Gustafsson drew attention to the increase in these housing costs, and I am not going to repeat this, but it has indeed been said here that the heating costs of oil-fired self-catering houses will rise by around EUR 75 per year and around EUR 20 per year for district heating where district heat is produced by coal or natural gas. Well, these do not, of course, make very many euros on a monthly basis — and, of course, for those on low incomes every euro is necessary, I do not deny it at all — but the committee also went through these effects quite carefully on the basis of expert opinions, so it has been taken into account. The sub-index in this report also states that the proposal is fundamentally regressive, but the change is very close to zero and the quantitative changes are most clearly directed towards the highest income categories, which generally include those living in more spacious flats than average, so I believe that there is no need to carry out the study of the income-sharing effects mentioned in this protest and not to open up this income-sharing effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u489	Mr. Speaker! Although this increase in the energy tax, the increase in the CO2 tax, is partly directed towards housing and also towards traders in many ways and adds costs there, the steering effect of this is nevertheless significant: Finland's production and use of energy is increasingly directed towards domestic renewable energy sources and energy saving, energy efficiency, and if that is in line with all possible objectives. Its impact on the climate, on the environment and on our trade and current account is significant. That is why different means must be used, and such instruments of control are one. Of course, the government must now also, in accordance with its programme, also provide other instruments and other incentives for us to be able, at a rapid pace, to give up coal completely and significantly reduce our import-energy needs, our energy dependence. It is in the interests of all of us Finns, and it will certainly strengthen the state economy in the long term and bring the many benefits that are available from it. So we must now only receive some cost increases on the pretext that in the future we will gain more energy from our own land and our own production methods and thereby improve our well-being, our employment and our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u490	Mr President! In a simplified way, you can say that the repayment period for the purchase of the pellet pot is now reduced. There will also be incentives for more fuel use in different machinery, which is hopefully also domestic but above all renewable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u491	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u492	Mr President! The Government has overstepped the agreed parliamentary preparations when deciding on the freeze and transfer of the public service broadcasting tax to the central government spending limits in the context of the Government Programme, although on 16 December 2011, a joint declaration by the parliamentary parties stated that "if material changes are identified in the further preparation of the solution agreed today, their preparation will also rely on parliamentary support". The Government's policy violates the principles of parliamentary procedure and threatens the independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. Well, then to this substance. The income threshold from which a person's public service tax should be paid would rise from the current EUR 8120 to EUR 10914 and pensioners and benefit recipients from EUR 7500 to EUR 10294. The proposal for the exemption of the low incomes is a step in the right direction, but insufficient in terms of progress towards a narrow income area. In the future, the funding of the public service must be prepared on the basis of the work of the parliamentary working group evaluating the company's public service mission and funding in a way that promotes social justice. Well, this government proposal is good, it's good to have low incomes released. We are in favour of the adoption of the law, but we are making a statement emphasising that Yle's affairs should be prepared parliamentaryly and that Yle-Tax can continue to be developed even more, with greater emphasis on the social justice of Yle-Tax. This, in line with our protest, would be the case: 'The Parliament obliges the Government to restore the preparation of the financing of YLE to parliamentary preparation and decision-making. In this context, Parliament calls on the Government to rapidly prepare a proposal with parliamentary support to increase the social justice of the Yle-Tax and ensure the continuity of the undisturbed operation of YLE."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u493	Mr President! As the clock is approaching three o'clock in the morning, I am not going to make a long speech on this subject. This has been discussed on several occasions in this Chamber, and I myself have spoken on several occasions. Mr Gustafsson has very well presented the content of the objection here, and I shall confine myself to saying at this stage of the night that I support this statement made by Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u494	Mr President! With this Government proposal, some 300,000 of the lowest income Finns will be exempt from the Broadcasting Tax from the beginning of 2016. At the same time, the Act on the Broadcasting Tax will be amended so that the minimum amount to be paid will be increased from EUR 51 to EUR 70 and the income thresholds will also rise. The Government's proposal eliminates the Yle-tax completely from approximately 120,000 pensioners and excludes everyone who receives a mere guarantee pension or a national pension. This government proposal is therefore a really good and fair reform that supports the most low-income Finns. Mr President! Then, when Mr Gustafsson presented the objection of the representatives of the SDP, I would say that the funding of YLE for the coming years is already under consideration in the parliamentary working group set up by Minister Berner. So it is already there for future years to consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u495	Mr President! That is where I was just trying to withdraw this speech, because Mrs Torniainen, at this time of night, was so comprehensive about what this is all about. I just want to say briefly here that this is a very large hand-out from the government to low-income Finns, and it must be supported and supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u496	Mr President! I have to say something that Mrs Torniainen has listed, but this social justice will also be achieved in this proposal. Of course it can always be improved, as Mr Gustafsson said, it can always be increased. The low-income people here will be met, and I must admit that this proposal was not prepared on a parliamentary basis, but a new working group has been set up, and I also hope that in the future these decisions will be taken on behalf of Yle on the basis of parliamentary action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u497	Mr President! As I said in my speech, this government proposal is good, very good. And it is very pleasant to talk specifically to the representatives of the centre of the House about the YLE because I think that national broadcasting is a very important national cultural instrument for both the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and the Left and, I believe, for the Greens. Every once in a while, I like to say that we have a good Finnish comprehensive school, a library institution and a national public service that we need to take good care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u498	Mr President! This subject has already been discussed quite extensively, but I would also like to say that, particularly with regard to the distribution of incomes, this is indeed a step in the right direction, as Mr Gustafsson of the opposition has just said. Indeed, this will all leave a maximum of EUR 857 per month out of this Yle-tax in the future, i.e. indeed everyone who receives a mere guarantee pension — i.e. indeed a reform in the right direction. Well, as far as this is concerned, that is to say this small child which was actually involved in this matter in the preparation of these general affairs, I also think it is important for this tradition that Yleisradio is specifically a company under parliamentary control of Parliament. I therefore believe that this Committee of Satose has rightly taken this issue into consideration. I think this is absolutely the right thing to do. On behalf of the government parties, there was indeed a small childhood here in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u499	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u500	Mr President! The Sipilä Board of Directors proposes a temporary amendment of the University of Applied Sciences Act so that in 2016–2019 the budget allocation to universities and universities of applied sciences would not be increased in line with the annual increase in costs according to the university index and the polytechnic index. This freezing of indexes for over a long period of time is undermining the foundation of Finnish education and education, taking into account the cumulative savings of nearly EUR 3 billion in education, research and education. The basic activities of several universities are at risk and, as we know, the universities have started, some of them have stopped negotiations to reduce staff. At the same time, universities are required, among other things, to teach throughout the year without additional funding. It should also be noted that, in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is necessary for the Ministry of Education and Culture to carefully monitor the actual impact of the cuts in the basic funding of universities on the functioning of universities and the ability to carry out their duties. It is also particularly important to monitor the impact of a significant reduction in basic funding on the quality and conditions for the implementation of research and on the level and availability of research-based education. In view of the above, we propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u501	Mr President! It is late, but this is a very important issue which still needs to be addressed. This Government bill on the freezing of indices combined with the financial cuts contained in the Government's proposal for next year's budget constitutes the whole that will significantly weaken our Finnish higher education system and also, in the long term, reduce the level of competence in this country. In economic terms, it has been found to be harmful in several opinions, it undermines basic Finnish research, weakens the conditions for science to be done, and, in the long term, it also weakens the conditions for creating new economic growth. In addition to this, it is also culturally damaging because, as mentioned above, it leads to a reduction in Finnish competence and a significant reduction in personnel in higher education institutions. Education, education and knowledge have been an absolutely central issue in Finland, both in terms of equality and economic competitiveness, and this foundation is now being scrapped in a very significant way. This exceptionally strict position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is a good example and an indication of the fact that savings are actually being made here that they even threaten these basic activities of universities and the ability of universities to perform their basic functions. For these reasons, I support the rejections made by Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u502	Mr President! This is indeed an important subject. To begin with, it is true that there is a certain systematicity to be found in the government's proposals, and this system seems to be directed, at least in many respects, towards civilisation and the weakening of civilisation. The government is making a variety of cuts for civilization. Today, too, we have been discussing major cuts in early childhood education, namely, indeed, from early childhood education to primary school, secondary education and further higher education, the government is undermining the rights of young people, children and then significantly the funding base for education, and this is also demonstrated by the index freezes of higher education institutions throughout the parliamentary term, for the whole parliamentary and government term, which is a very significant major cut, and it should certainly not be underestimated. The world is in a big revolution. We have a business structure in change, working life in change, production methods in change. We are under a variety of pressure for change, and it would be a good thing for this country to be able to renew itself precisely through knowledge and education, because we really have no other choice. That is why I think it is extremely important that, even at such a difficult economic time, we should be able to invest in education, knowledge, basic research, product development, education, everything on which Finland has been built until now. Now, these government proposals are a big blow to such a long-term development. This is a real shame that we have to discuss such difficult, serious issues in the middle of the night, but it is important that these issues are dealt with anyway. That is why I, too, support this rejection proposal tabled by Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u503	Mr President! Government cuts from universities are unreasonable. Basic funding will be cut by EUR 50 million per year for the entire term of the government, and together with the freezing of the university index now under discussion, it will constitute unsustainable cuts that will paralyse the basic activities of universities: education, research, education, maintenance of the level of education. The university also offers future seed potatoes at a high level of research, which is very difficult to maintain in connection with these cuts. Many universities are currently negotiating, at Aalto University, at the University of Helsinki, and it must also be remembered that when Aalto University was founded, it was promised considerably more funding than it has received so far. Scientists need freedom. Creativity is enhanced by the fact that there is no constant need to be concerned about the continuity of funding. The investigator must also have the opportunity to fail. I would like to clarify this, because failure can also lead to something new and surprising. It is quite unreasonable for government ministers to demand, among other things, power and evidence from basic research, because basic research is precisely what is behind all new innovations and inventions, but, in itself, it is not yet possible to know what future success stories the research will lead to. Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen's shepherd's letter to the colleges does devalue the important work that our universities do for the good of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u504	Mr President! As the previous representatives have said, cutting out of a university is a very short-sighted policy. We know that the recipe for Finland's rise was a long way from investing in education and knowledge. Likewise today, the recipe is the same as that used to bring Finland up, and in fact it is needed even more in the face of increased global competition. At the University of Eastern Finland, the seventh conference was started in six years' time, i.e. every year, even more than an average, has been held. Similarly, at Karelia University of Applied Sciences, Joensuu is already in the middle of a second round of negotiations this year, and these cuts do know that this pace of negotiations will not be reduced. Both of these universities are those who have been in the forefront of reforms and making their activities more effective. The University of Eastern Finland was formed when the University of Joensuu and the University of Kuopio merged. Karelia University of Applied Sciences has tightened its network so that it has an establishment in Joensuu only. It is unreasonable that educational institutions and universities which have already been working on improving efficiency for a very long time should also be penalised by the fact that they are subject to exactly the same savings claims as everyone else. This will in future mean that everyone is waiting until the end for that stick. There should also be carrots available here for our universities to reform their activities. It will be very difficult to do the reform work if the economy is tightened so tight that there is no room or opportunity to seek any new and creative solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u505	Mr President! As a result of previous cuts, higher education institutions have made their operations more efficient, cutting down on farm and administrative costs what they have been able to do. These cuts, which are now being proposed, are therefore direct cutting measures for the basic statutory tasks of higher education institutions: education and research. In view of the fact that the government directly cuts the 50 million that have already been mentioned, 25 million from the university of applied sciences and removes the pharmacy company, in other words, from the University of Helsinki and the University of Eastern Finland in Kuopio, an additional 30 million, these freezings of university and polytechnic indexes are quite intolerable language. As the economy improves, the index freezes for the entire government would mean that when the economy recovers, the cost level will also rise, which is probably the objective of the government and all of us. In that situation, universities and universities of applied sciences are in an even worse spiral with regard to the freezing of their budgets. This proposal cannot be welcomed or supported in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u506	Mr President! Here in Finland we are not able to compete with low-cost production countries for mass production, but we have succeeded in technology and in making good, high-quality products. We've had high-level research. For example, during the last recession, the then government did well to invest in research and education, even though everything else had to be cut. When research and higher education have already been cut in recent years, unfortunately the level of science in Finland has already fallen, and if we compare Finland with top universities such as the ETH of Zurich, there is a significant difference between the size of the research teams, the number of employees, how many reagents, equipment can be acquired. In fact, these instruments, with which to carry out research, are already quite different from those of the top universities in the world. I would also like to support Mr Gustafsson's motion for rejection and thank him for his excellent speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u507	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson's earlier speech again highlighted these cumulative calculations of educational savings. We do not make such calculations from other cuts, so that this may be a bit of a distortion in proportion. But specifically yes, this is also a savings law. But it is also good to remember that universities of applied sciences, and universities in particular, currently have a good financial position in relation to their activities, if you compare that they have had EUR 800 million in funding in the past, which in a very short period of time was raised to EUR 1.8 billion. This tells us a lot about their financial position. The current liquidity is good for higher education institutions. Of course, it is not good to have surgery, but we all know how serious the situation in Finland is at the moment, the worst in the post-war period. The opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media clearly emphasises the need to monitor these effects in terms of cuts already made during the last term of government and also in terms of these new ones. What is also important in the field of vocational education and training, in particular in the following section, is that real estate is also significantly spared. As far as the University of Helsinki is concerned, there has also been talk that real estate actually saves money, that savings are not only made from staff. And it is the Committee on Education that wants the Government to urgently explore the possibility of abolishing the restrictions on the transfer of properties obtained from the state of the organisers of higher education in order to get rid of these unnecessary properties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u508	Mr President! Mr Jarva is pleased that, when you criticise this cumulative calculation method, we are simply following the path set out by the Centre Party. The central educational policy issue in 2014 had counted the cumulative savings of the previous government to about 1.5 billion, and now the government led by Prime Minister Sipilä doubles. But the most serious question here is that in other Nordic countries and, for example, in Germany, we are currently investing heavily in research and education. In other words, Finland is now lagging behind government measures in higher education and research after our key competition countries. And when these government cuts to higher education are so great that when they are quantified, they mean 3300 people away — scientists, lecturers, professors, staff — then of course it leaves a merciless mark, and there is a quite wrong signal in this situation, where Finland is now, giving such a signal to our university and higher education people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u509	Mr President! When it comes to cumulative effects and long-term evaluation, I think it is all right to take into account that considerable savings were also made in education during the previous term of government. What is at issue here is that, despite the fact that, in the run-up to the elections, everyone was still of the opinion that this road has now been completed, more will be done. In addition, this index freezing law is, therefore, more radical than what was done last season, because it is now about to freeze the indexes of higher education institutions for the rest of the election season. So it's a very significant saving. As far as the assessment of these overall effects is concerned, as Mr Jarva also pointed out, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, above all, advocated it, and stressed it, precisely because there is no such certainty that universities will actually be able to carry out these basic tasks. Here is a pretty clear political concern about the situation and position of Finnish expertise and research. When Mr Jarva raised the issue of these walls savings and structural reforms, I think it is worth listening now to the messages that come from the higher education field and come from the higher education community. In other words, when we talk about savings of this magnitude, it is not about structural reforms or the kind of austerity pressures that can only be overcome by giving up a few properties, but rather about the huge changes that will also affect the staff, that is, the people who do the teaching and research work in our higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u510	Is Mr Jarva asking for the floor? I will no longer give the answer at this stage. — Mr Jarva, on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u511	Mr President! In the past, when there was talk of what these savings can be made from, it really is not the reality that people’s years alone are being reduced. That it's possible to do... We will certainly have to think about the staff situation, but there is also the possibility of saving property, and this has also come out of the universities themselves as an alternative. But as previously spoken, it is the economic situation that has been reasonably good in higher education institutions. After all, no one disputes that this is an unfortunate performance. No one likes to do this, and this is precisely a savings law, and in this way universities also participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u512	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u513	Mr President! I'll take another short formula, as I hope you've noticed. After all, the Sipilä Government has decided to freeze these index increases in the administrative sectors of education and culture in 2016–2019 as part of the central government-decided adjustment measures. All index freezes and savings corresponding to index increases are presented as permanent tasks. Savings for museums, theatres and orchestras in 2012–2015 and index freezing in 2014 would be made permanent. In addition, permanent savings under the 2016-2019 spending limits decision would be implemented from 2016. It is proposed to amend the law on liberal education to reduce the average unit prices of the liberal educational institution and, for adult education institutions, to the average unit prices corresponding to the index increase in 2016. It is also necessary to note that the financing of vocational education and training will also be significantly reduced as a result of the austerity decisions taken by both the previous and the current government. The organisers of vocational education and training will have to change their practices and renovate the network of real estate for training. However, I would also like to stress that previous savings and index freezing for museums, theatres and orchestras are being proposed to be made permanent. In the case of art establishments, index freezing and other deductions will be seen negatively in the operations of art plants and municipalities will not be able to compensate for the deficit. The accumulation of savings also makes it difficult for the administrators of liberal educational institutions to operate in the long term. In the longer term, the downward trend in the budget for liberal education may be reflected in the scope for action and in the accessibility of education and training. We are opposed to index freezes, which undermine the financing of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. The Government's proposal has a direct negative impact on the quality of education and its sole objective is to reduce the resources of education in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and vocational education and training, so we propose that Bills 1 and 2 contained in the Government's proposal HE 79/2015 be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u514	Mr President! I think some representative in the previous debate said that it is boring to repeat himself, but that is what I am going to do now, because this government cuts off civilization in so many different ways that it is sometimes even difficult to keep track of it. This proposal now under discussion is therefore another bill that cuts Finnish education, education, knowledge and, in this context, also art and culture. In other words, these savings hit basic education, the second stage, and particularly strongly it hit vocational education, basic art education, free cultural work and, in addition to this, the activities of cultural institutions. As Mr Gustafsson rightly pointed out here, the government is now proposing these austerity measures as permanent measures. So this is a very important political choice by this government once again. For these reasons, I support Mr Gustafsson's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u515	Mr President! There is a government proposal that includes freezing the indexes of basic services: upper secondary school education, vocational education, basic art education, museums, theatres, orchestras. The Greens are opposed to these index freezes, which undermine the financing of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. For culture, both future index freezes and permanent changes to previous years' savings are proposed. The index freezes in upper secondary school, vocational and art education are only a continuum for the government's flagrant educational cuts. Before the elections, all parties promised that education would not be cut off, a number of educational promises were made, but still the government would untenablely cut off children. OAJ has also stated that these cuts in basic education are unsustainable. I support Mr Gustafsson's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u516	The 22nd item will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u517	The 23rd item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u518	Mr President! It is suggested that in the future the Ministry of the Environment would no longer strengthen regional plans or common general municipal plans. The aim of this government proposal is fine: to streamline planning and shorten the process of regional planning. It is also a good thing that efforts are being made to strengthen the autonomous role of the provinces. However, this reform presents great risks. There are well-founded reasons why the Ministry of the Environment confirms the regional plans and common municipal general plans. It is a question of judicial control: it is a question of monitoring the legality of the formula and the achievement of the national objectives for the use of regions. Complaints cannot be submitted only to the administrative court, namely that the administrative court may take a position on the legality of the formula only in so far as the appeal is made. In other words, even if the formula is totally contrary to national regional use targets, but no one has complained about it, the formula becomes final. The Government's proposal also involves risks from a regional point of view. Once the Ministry confirms the regional plan, it can be assured that the formulas are consistent across the country. The zoners are also pleased. The majority of regional federations would maintain the verification procedure. When the bill is implemented, there is a threat of deterioration in the quality of planning and the environment. Up to now, projects blocked by the Ministry of the Environment have had a strong impact on the environment. It can be assumed that if the Ministry of the Environment were to be removed, such projects would increase as their environmental impact would no longer be assessed by the Ministry. A mere awareness of the control of the national level may also lead to a pre-emption of the worst harmful ideas. The planning process can also be streamlined, except by removing the right to confirm. For example, the collection of opinions from other ministries could be removed from the examination of regional plans, or a formula could be made final in so far as it has not been appealed against. Mr President! This change cannot be justified by the dismantling of bureaucracy. The bureaucracy associated with the establishment of formulas has been very limited in the Ministry, with an average of around four formulas per year. It is also estimated that if the verification procedure for the regional plan were abandoned, the consultative work of the Ministry and the number of complaints would increase. Regional self-government is coming to a great turmoil. We do not yet know what tasks will be assigned to the autonomous regions in the future, how the management bodies will be selected and how decisions will be taken. This individual change in the strengthening of the regional formula should not be made separately from other major reforms. The tasks and role of the Autonomous Community must be dealt with as a whole. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the Left-wing Union, we see that the risks associated with the abolition of the system of confirmation of regional formulas outweigh the benefits. That is why I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u519	Mr President! It's a very good bill. It dismantles duplication and unnecessary bureaucracy, brings the exercise of power closer to the people, the provinces — wherever these activities are to be managed. This will transfer the role of the Ministry of the Environment to be more of a advisor and director, and that is where it is really necessary. Complaint methods and channels will work very well in the future. I believe that this law will work very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u520	Mr President! Mr Modig said everything that is essential about what is not right in this well-meaning bill, and that is why I support the rejection of the bill by Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u521	Mr President! I also understand that the objective of this legislative proposal is good and is very much based on what is being said about government groups, on this dismantling of bureaucracy. It was very clear here that, in practice, this strengthening of patterns in the Ministry of the Environment did not add much to this bureaucracy, but there are certainly good grounds for abandoning it. At the same time, however, attention must be paid to the problems involved. That is what we have raised in our own protest. Therefore, I shall make a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2, which reads as follows: 'The Commission requires that the objectives of the proposal be monitored, in particular from the point of view of the achievement of the general environmental protection objectives and in the context of the reform of the regional administration, to ensure that the regions have an effective zoning and control authority and that the right to appeal remains sufficiently wide.' We cannot really assume that the verification procedure will be abandoned and, if necessary, the right to appeal will be reduced. We know that there are views on this in the Government Programme, and that is why we wanted to make this very clear here, and also the fact that, when the regional self-government is being changed, we do not know what will then be this supervisory and steering authority. A strong supervisory and steering authority is also needed in the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u522	Mr President! I support Mr Myller's statement 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u523	Mr President! Mr Modig presented the arguments very well, which is why this bill should not be adopted. It would be good if the Ministry of the Environment would continue to establish regional plans and common general plans. After all, the regional plan determines, among other things, the location of large units of trade, the regional green lines, the location of mining sites, cultural environments. It is important that we share national land use targets in order to achieve sustainable and high-quality planning and to ensure equity across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u524	Mr President! I think that this government proposal is excellent, and it is also in line with the big solution that will create self-government regions, which will also be entrusted with the tasks of regional federations, including this zoning. Even now, regional planning is the responsibility of the regional federations, and now, after this proposal, the provincial council will decide what the contents of the regional plan are. In my view, the fears that have been expressed here, in the sense that the regional formula is not a legal formula in such a way that it simply guides the development of a lower-level formula, that is, a general formula drawn up by the municipalities. In that sense, I no longer think it is necessary for a democratically elected body, a county council, such as a coat of overcoat, the Ministry of the Environment, to look at it. The same legislation governs the regional federations in this formula as it does today, and I believe that this current procedure has been superfluous insofar as it is still necessary to strengthen it here in the Ministry of the Environment. I do not think there is any reason to be afraid of this, and perhaps this is the ideological difference that some people do not trust that democracy in those provinces will produce a sufficiently high level of decision-making, but it is thought that yes here in Helsinki we know what is best for the regions. I think that there is a local knowledge of what is best for the region when it comes to the local conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u525	At this point, I will give you one reply. Otherwise, we are going to finish this in the order of the request in the list, because I see that the representatives are speaking from their place. Then you'd better go like that. This time, Mr Modig, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u526	Mr President! To Mrs Lohe: it is not a question of relying on democracy or on the ability of the elected people to make the right decisions, but these solutions can only be so contradictory that we need a bigger view of it. For example, in our capital region, the regional plan has steered very strongly where we base our transport infrastructure investments, which are behind the very different interests of the different municipalities in the capital region, behind the very different decision-makers. We do not have a common view on these unless we have the formula in which it has been seen together. Now, if every province could do it alone, there will come those clacks where the wishes of another province are quite different from those of another province. If we think about the circumstances in which this right to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment has been exercised, so that the Ministry has blocked something, I think, when the Minister for Housing of the Coalition Party, Jan Vapaavuori, acted as Minister of Housing,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u527	Mr President! The government's proposal is good and worthy of support. Today, the process of drawing up regional plans, and in particular of strengthening them, is far too long. At present, the dual role of the Ministry of the Environment, both as a steering authority and as a strengthening authority, has also been somewhat problematic and has also partially hindered cooperation between the various authorities. This Government proposal clarifies and clarifies the division of competence between the Ministry of the Environment and the regions in planning. This also highlights the autonomous decision-making position of the provinces in land use and urban planning. In different parts of Finland, regions have their own special needs, and responsible decision-making is made in the provinces to self-religion and trust decision-makers. And yes, in the provinces it is best to know how the province is to be developed and what is needed there. With this Government proposal, regional planning is changing in a proactive and more interactive direction. As regards, for example, protest 1, which states that the government's proposal will undermine the quality and legality of the formulas, I do not believe in this myself, but the Ministry of the Environment is already in the early stages of planning, together with the regional federations, in drawing up those regional plans. This government proposal is really good and is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u528	Mr President! I would like to remind the opposition in the Chamber of one of the key principles governing EU legislation, which is the principle of subsidiarity. This principle means that all decisions should be taken as close as possible to the people affected. This government's proposal is very much in favour of this objective, which, I believe, has been accepted quite across party lines, so I am a little surprised at this criticism. Why is the subsidiarity principle something that the opposition would accept? That is an excellent goal. Of course, this issue is of particular importance now for this regional self-government reform. The government has decided to strengthen regional self-government, but of course this high-quality planning is still the guiding principle and rule. That's what they're trying to do. We must remember that the responsibility always comes with power, and I believe it is better for such zoning issues to be borne locally in the provinces than for that responsibility to be borne here in the Ministry of the Environment, because, at local level, it is best known what solutions are appropriate for these regions. Not all wisdom, ladies and gentlemen, lives in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u529	Mr President! Follow-up to Mr Kärnä's speech: The regions will be able to make at least as good decisions as the ministries, in this case the Ministry of the Environment, in terms of their own regions. I and I rely more on regional expertise than any big brother supervises mentality. I therefore believe that zoning powers such as those currently in place in the Ministry of the Environment are completely unnecessary in this situation. Nor do I believe in any way that this amendment of the law would lead to formulas contrary to the objectives of law or national territorial use, even because this new legislation, as it were, imposes more extensive cooperation between the various actors and also between ministries. Then this cooperation between the provinces: of course, the provinces will cooperate in terms of regional patterns, even to the extent that there is a need for a decision-making power over these provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u530	Mr President! I also consider this amendment to the Land Use and Construction Act and the proposal to be very good. This is where we start, in the spirit of red tape, and the decision-making process is still moving close to the citizen, which I very much appreciate. There are good and competent decision-makers in the provinces, and this makes many practices smoother. As has been pointed out here, it will take too long, at least from the point of view of business, to strengthen the formulas at ministerial level, and it will prevent significant companies from being located in different regions. Of course, you have to think carefully about how this fits into the self-governing regions, but at least I would see that this is one of the things that could be taken to the conclusion of the self-governing regions and which could be part of it. It has also been suggested that there are currently only a few of these confirmations in the Ministry of the Environment, so I understand that, since this is not a very important issue for the Ministry of the Environment either, it can be taken to the regions from there quite well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u531	Mr President! When we have a broad political consensus that we want to reduce bureaucracy and reduce the administrative burden, then it must also be done. This is done by law at a time, by law at a time, by regulation at a time, by authority at a time, and we are now at the point where the government is proposing and the committee's report is moving in the same direction. The regional plan no longer needs to be confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment. This is a very good and consistent step in the bureaucracy that we all support. It's a totally unnecessary round to use there. The provinces know and know. They are also guided by a wide range of other laws in the field of land use and construction, and there is no fear that this will become a wild west, but that this will remain better than under control now, and it will also be much better able to support Finland's investment objectives, employment objectives, the objectives of improving the operating conditions of companies than has been the case up to now. There must be a consistent dismantling of unnecessary inter-authority operations, which are now the darkest of the clouds. It is very good that we now have this at our disposal and that we are finally getting ahead of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u532	Mr President! I consider this proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act so that regional plans and common municipal plans no longer need to be made available for confirmation by the Ministry of the Environment, as a very good, red tape-reducing and in the right direction. I believe that the proposal will highlight the autonomous role of regional federations in land use planning and shorten the decision-making and appeal process in relation to regional planning and the common general planning of municipalities, and I also believe that the reform will clarify the division of competences in the formulation of the formula in general terms between the state and the provinces. You have to trust your expertise in the areas. This is a very good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u533	Mr President! It has been assured that in the provinces they are able to plan themselves and that the Ministry of the Environment is not required to strengthen the formulas. Unfortunately, however, we have examples of attempts made in the provinces to make formulas that have subsequently fallen into failure to comply with the law. In that sense, I do think it is important that the Ministry of the Environment continue to monitor this formula process to such an extent that preparations will then be made in the provinces, taking into account also the issues of sustainable development, especially since land use and land planning is an issue with a great deal of economic interests. It is also true that we have even had a number of financial mess in connection with this, which has come very close to the regional decision-makers, so that, in that sense, this current practice should be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u534	Mr President! I shall comment briefly on this government proposal. I have been in the North Karelia County Planning Group for the last few years, and it has been quite difficult to work when you go to Helsinki at the Ministry of the Environment to show you whether this formula works for you or not. If that is not good enough, then there will be another change in the province. It is quite certain that in the province we know how much space there is at Niirala border guard station there is a need to expand or how much space it is needed, even if it is near the Sevettijärvi store or there near the bar. It is quite a ballet that in those provinces you really know where there is a need to expand, not necessarily at the Ministry of the Environment of Helsinki
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u535	Mr President! The only thing I would have said to Mr Mikkos was that the provinces do not need guards. Is it not better that the Ministry of the Environment simply directs and advises on these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u536	Mr President! Yes, everywhere, both in the provinces and in the capital, the same law is observed, so that a little bit of this kind of uncredit, what is being presented to the democratically elected, future self-government regions of the opposition. There have been many contradictions so far in the fact that regions, municipalities, provinces would have liked to do different things in terms of environmental development, sustainable development and planning, but then there have been hair licks with the Ministry of the Environment, and the result has been that no development work has taken place since then. In my opinion, this is of course a major democratic change in Finland, and it is absolutely essential that the strengthening of regional plans is one part of what the autonomous regions decide, and it is above all part of the norm. Once again, during the evening, when asked what the concrete standards are, this is what they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u537	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Mikkonen said that it would be important for the Ministry of the Environment to keep an eye on the development of regional plans in the future. I really do not see the role of the Ministry of the Environment in that way, but the Ministry of the Environment will be a cooperative body which will also be involved with the regional federations in drawing up that regional formula. It takes up negotiations at an early stage, which go through the principles and objectives. It must also be cooperation, the drawing up of regional plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u538	Mr President! Mr Torniainen raised a point which I was thinking about a little bit further: precisely the interaction between the way in which the ministries will continue to play a key role. It does involve discussions and consultation with several ministries and calls for opinions. It must also be remembered that this brings such good freedom to the self-government region also to that interaction in its own region, and I believe that the acceptance of the final result of its regional formula will bring it closer to the local authority itself, even when it is actually decided there in its own region. And I would like to point out again that it is precisely through its smoother regulation that we are also moving closer to that democracy in the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u539	Mr President! In this debate, I would like to remind you of what the government's own-designated liquidator, Mr Auvo Haapanala, has said about this bill. In his report to the Ministry of the Environment on "Options for the verification of regional plans" — this is the name of this report — he has stated that he is not in favour of abandoning the verification procedure because, according to this study, it is obvious that the transfer of legal controls from the Ministry of the Environment to other actors would increase the number of complaints made about regional plans and thus the number of times and bureaucracy involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u540	The 24th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u541	Mr President! This proposal is partly about updating the provisions of the Church Act on Administrative and Legal Security. This change is extensive and has been under preparation for years. It is therefore a very good thing that the performance is now being brought to the finish line. The aim of the performance is to improve privacy in the processing of church membership data. Similarly, the objective is to improve the information security of the register of members. Both are very important objectives. These things have to be in order. The committee concerned has also taken a position on this and considered it important. The proposal would also clarify the responsibilities of the authorities and the handling of members' data, as well as the preparation of emergency situations and crisis situations. The purpose of the proposal is also to update the Church Act to reflect the development of general administrative legislation. Attention has also been paid to the fact that the provisions are clear. It should also be recalled that the special order of the Church Act is based on Section 1 of Chapter 2 of the Church Act. Thus, only the Council has the right to make a proposal for the adoption, amendment or repeal of the church law. I would also like to remind you that the Council has been unanimous in its presentation. I too consider this proposal to be very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u542	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u543	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u544	Mr President! This government proposal abolishes the procedure for the conversion of fines, so that, in the case of persons who have repeatedly failed to pay fines, fines could be converted into prison sentences. It is clear that the general opinion — and I might say that it is certainly the opinion of the citizens — is that this should be the case in the future. This law, which would allow conversion penalties, was decided in the last period, but it has not yet entered into force, and in this context, why this is now being withdrawn, it is purely that this procedure is quite expensive: it is estimated that 12.4 million of this will be saved from 2018 onwards from state resources. In this difficult economic situation, choices must be made, and if we now think of the fact that we have far more serious crimes,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u545	Mr President! When I served as a judge in the courts, I experienced that a person who had been given suspended sentence went out of the gym laughing that I got nothing. I think this is really dangerous in our society, that a person does not feel that he has actually done wrong and that he has been punished for that. The second thing that often came to the debate there is the issue of the conversion of fines. Now, in the last parliamentary term, I was really in favour of this law coming into force, which is now actually being overthrown, that it would not exist. All right, we have this economic situation now, and we will have to think about all the savings, but hopefully in the future, when we have a slightly better economic situation, we could take this issue back to the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u546	Mr President! Of course, it is a problem for the predictability of legislation that these already decided laws are being withdrawn, and one may wonder about this procedure. It was thought that the conversion of the fine could be made possible when a person who has repeatedly been fined could be considered as showing negligence in the law. However, this joy was now short and, in particular, the Trade Union has been appalled by the cancellation of this conversion penalty. In my opinion, this is yet another indication of the government's escalating judicial policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u547	The 27th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u548	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Public Transport Act so that, for example, in the Kotka region and in the Meri-Lap region, the local public transport authority should be responsible for the planning of public transport in the region together with the local authorities. In fact, I consider this to be a good thing, and in my region, the Kotka region, this proposal is welcomed. All in all, there are 9 centres of business, transport and the environment in Finland and 26 municipal authorities, 10 of which are regional authorities, which means that this practice is quite varied in this respect. Of course, not all regions would have to have such a municipal system, but at least in our region this is a more functional system, and I hope that here too, when the self-government regions reflect on those tasks, this would be one thing that would be considered: could this planning of public transport belong to this area of self-government? Future social welfare reform is also something that will have to be considered a lot. Various solutions have been proposed — the use of a service voucher and this type of voucher — in public transport, which would, among other things, secure public transport in sparsely populated areas. In this context, too, there should be a little bigger and wider shoulders.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u549	Mr President! As Mr Pakkanen has already pointed out, this government proposal proposes the establishment of two new regional competent authorities for the organisation of public transport, which would come to the Kotka-Hamina-Pyhtaa region and one in the region of Meri-Lap. This government proposal is actually based on the will and initiative of those regions. They have felt that they would be better able to handle this public transport in the region. It is good that we have also heard the views of the regions and that we are moving forward. The development of public transport throughout the country is very important, and it also leaves the regions' own needs and regions themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u550	The 28th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u551	Mr President! This is a rare educational proposal with unanimous support from that Committee on Education. What is particularly important here is this refugee situation and, in particular, for asylum seekers, the fact that there can now be more pupils in schools in the middle of the year and this has not been taken into account in the funding of municipalities. This presentation will then make it easier for municipalities to invest in this good integration for children and young people. However, the proposal does not apply to those over 16 years of age, which is unfortunate in that sense, but for the age group, it is then necessary to invest in this area of liberal education, i.e. adult education centres, upper secondary schools for adults and folk high schools, so that they can receive this training. What was particularly important to the committee was that the funding for integration training should be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Culture in the future, so that better coordination can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u552	The 29th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u553	The 30th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u554	Partly, in part, for the second reading, presents the 31st item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 12/2015 vp will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and the explanatory statement and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u555	The 32nd item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u556	The 33rd item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u557	The 34th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u558	The 38th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u559	Mr President! This Metsähallitus law, which has now been brought here to Parliament, is the result of a long process. As early as last season, due to the European regulations — at least this was justified — this amendment to the Forestry Government Act and the fact that the forestry sector is separately incorporated into Metsätalous Oy. It is clear that when Metsähallitus is very important to citizens in their everyday lives, especially in Northern Finland and especially in the Lapland region, when Metsähallitus manages about 65 per cent of the area of Lapland, among other things, it is very critical of what this law should be about in the future. I personally assume that, now that this is being reformed, it is not enough for us to make only mandatory changes, but rather to identify the problems that are currently facing which also require correction. As part of this consultation and as the process progresses, account has been taken of the feedback received from the regions and the various parties in their opinions and hearings, but one can still say that this bill contains certain problems which need to be carefully considered in committee. I would like to raise two points. The second is the one raised in the Government Programme, this management system and its clarification. There is still the impression that perhaps there is still not enough success here to make it sufficiently clear that it should be, I might say,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u560	Mr President! The Forest Government Act speaks, thinks. It's up to us to make it right now. I do not know anyone who would look forward to this company law with satisfaction and enthusiasm, but in April a new directive on the competitive tendering of service concessions will come into force, and before that we will have to reorganise forestry matters in Metsähallitus. At least I'm not ready to take the risk of what would happen if we didn't do this. If we do not change the law, then state forest management should also be opened up to open markets. I hope nothing happens, but the competition could be won by a big Polish company. At least I'm not ready to risk foreign companies taking care of our forests. Trying to build a law that makes as few changes as possible to Metsähallitus' current operating model. Metsähallitus is also present and remains under the budget and guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment. This has been perceived as a problem. The new draft law has attempted to strengthen and clarify the role of management, but it is not possible for the Director to decide on statutory tasks under the Ministry of the Environment, since this remuneration is, however, an activity under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, i.e. money under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry does not decide on matters under the Ministry of the Environment. However, as far as possible, the draft law has sought to better steer the activities under the various ministries towards cooperation. We had the alternative that the public management tasks under the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment would become a completely separate organisation, and that is certainly not in anyone's interest. It is better that we have cooperation with small problems than that these activities are completely separate. The aim is that there should be no more power or tasks for the nature services sector, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment, so that the situation remains the same. It is a matter of statutory work under the guidance of the Ministry of the Environment, and it is in the interests of all of us that it is part of Metsähallitus and not a completely separate organisation. A great many statements have been made about this proposal, especially from the various municipalities in Lapland. I believe that these are fairly well-involved in these specific arguments and in the drafting of the law. That's what I'm even a little bit, cautiously satisfied with. It showed that we are, however, ready to be heard. But the law is definitely not done yet. Next spring, we're still going to have a big savotta in March. It has become clear that constitutional problems are likely to remain in the law. It is mainly about management, the division of duties in the Ministry and, for example, updating Sami matters. These can be corrected by the time the law is adopted by Parliament in March. I myself am proposing to add at least the social obligations of Article 6 to this law. I believe that local cooperation should be written in a binding manner in the law and not just in the explanatory statement at the guiding level. The use of forest cars should also be added to social obligations, as in the autumn the private forest owner suddenly became obliged to pay 15 cents per cubic metre for the use of Metsähallitus roads. The use fee leads to the total loss of value of some private forests. On the other hand, I look forward to further clarification of the CEO's mission description. It should, inter alia, better define the role of the Director in coordinating the activities of JHT under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in order to avoid, for example, conflicting statements. — I will take further note of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u561	Mr President! The new Metsähallitus law has really been prepared for a long and hard time for years, and the preparation of the law was suspended at the end of the last parliamentary term by the then Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Petteri Orpo. It is good to think about something as important as what is at stake here, what it really contains. Metsähallitus owns about one third of Finland's land and water sector. Metsähallitus nature services are responsible for public administration tasks, including the management of national parks, other nature reserves and cultural property, recreational management in all areas of Metsähallitus, hunting, fishing and land transport. The preparation of the law was resumed at the beginning of the current parliamentary term. Since the beginning of the new preparations, this process has been characterised by a rather unwarranted rush and a somewhat secretive preparation. For example, a new round of consultations after major changes to the draft law was presented in full on the basis of a timetable, but it was then finally possible to hold a public debate that insisted on this. It is not a credit to this method of preparation either that the debate on the referral of this huge draft law on national property will take place at 4 a.m. without the presence of the minister concerned. The reform of the Metsähallitus Act was originally only about the necessary regulations for the competitiveness of the EU's business, but it was also lacking in a number of other acts, in particular on public management tasks, i.e. nature services. In addition to the incorporation of Metsähallitus, a number of major changes have therefore been introduced which have nothing to do with the requirements of EU competition law. I do not know what is true here about the entry into force of that directive, whether it will take place in April or not until the coming autumn, as has also been the case with some sources. In terms of nature protection, hiking and citizens' rights, the most obvious lack of a draft law is the removal of public waters and natural economy areas from the balance sheet of public administrative tasks, including areas of importance for nature and recreation, such as state hiking areas. The whole of the draft law, the changes it seeks and the real effects it seeks, are quite difficult to understand and, in many respects, subject to interpretation. This is why the issue has been of exceptional concern to citizens and non-governmental organisations and municipalities. When the bill is implemented, it can endanger the management of Metsähallitus' activities from the parliament and the permanent preservation of national property by Finns. When the bill is implemented, Metsähallitus' activities seem to become more closed and more difficult to monitor for both citizens and Parliament. Mr President! This bill contains considerable changes which I am not going to go into detail here. However, I would like to point out, for example, that there are 2.4 million hectares of water in the state. Upper Lapland has 360,000 hectares of natural economy, and these are the areas that are wanted out of the natural services balance sheet. Big things. From the point of view of the Constitution, it is a question of whether Metsähallitus' group will be able to act in such a way that the production economic tasks related to Metsähallitus' forests and the public administrative tasks carried out with budgetary resources are genuinely independent of each other. Mr President! However, it is also in the interests of municipalities, especially small, forested municipalities in Eastern Finland and Lapland, not just the general interest, as is generally the case with national property. Indeed, the reform of the Metsähallitus Act reduces the tax revenues of municipalities in municipalities with a large number of state-owned countries. These forest-intensive and low-population municipalities are concerned about the impact of the incorporation of central government forestry on municipalities' corporate tax revenue. This concern is justifiable. Mr President! It is totally beneath the fact that this referral debate from morning to morning is taking place on a whole-scale issue without the presence of a minister. I propose that the Government's proposal for legislation on the reorganisation of Metsähallitus be left on the table and that the referral debate be held in the presence of Minister Tiilikainen at the plenary session on Thursday 17 December.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u562	Mr Halmemenpää has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 17 December 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u563	Mr President! I propose that this issue be dealt with in tomorrow's plenary session. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : I'm sorry, I'm not listening. (TimoKorhosen interlocutory call )
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u564	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u567	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u568	Mr President! I support Mr Korhonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u569	Mr President! I think that Mr Halmemenpää's suggestion that Mr Tiilikainen should be present is justified. I have received information from the Office that he is attending this week's climate conference in Paris and next week in Brussels and that he is attending the Thursday session for the first time, so I would also consider it reasonable for the representatives of the government parties, because there are so many open questions here, as in this speech. When the representatives of the government party also asked about this content of the bill, I would consider it justified that the minister should also be present. I would also like this proposal to be respected by the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u570	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speeches still can only relate to the time when they are placed on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u571	Mr President! It is precisely for these reasons, which Mr Ojala-Niemela has mentioned, that I too support this proposal made by Mr Halmemenpää, that the matter should be dealt with when the minister concerned is here to present the matter. This is such a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u572	The 39th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u573	Mr President! This is yet another important piece of legislation for private forestry in Finland, namely the draft Kemera Act. On the basis of the committee's deliberations, a few ideas have been put forward. First of all, it is a real shame that the lack of funds has already forced Kemera's working methods to be reduced and support levels to be lowered. It is clear that this will contribute to reducing employment and future felling opportunities. I do not think that a few comments on the points, first of all Article 3 of the draft law, about tendering, are very clearly written. The beneficiary shall request a sufficient number of tenders. The regulation seems to be designed to clarify this, but the landowner is not used to it and it is easy not to do it. So I think that this should be written in plain language, as it were. In my opinion, this would not be necessary at all in the law, as projects are generally small and the amounts of aid are still smaller in most cases. This section is likely to reduce the amount of work to be done. Article 8 of the draft law limit the landowner’s own work outside the support of rehabilitation, road construction and refurbishment. However, for example, small boron fertilizers often work better on their own. This is a small matter, but it's very important to some forest owner. Section 22 of the draft law, application for aid. An application is still required for the early care of the trout and for the care of the young forest before starting work. As was the case with the previous Kemera Act, a declaration of implementation would be excellent. The red tape and the costs of the double red tape required for small amounts of aid are nothing short of unnecessary. Administrative costs are often higher than the amount of aid. The cost of cutting roots, about EUR 1.5 per cubic metre, is a big blow to profitability, the profitability of forestry. In Kainuu, for example, it means a reduction of more than EUR 1 million in the income of the forest owner. Although the law obliges the batter to carry it, at the end it is taken from the carrying price. For example, the cost of the first thinning mite is almost one-fifth of the cost, ranging from €8 to €10. So we should reconsider, for the fear is that the first thinnings will not be beaten. The aid for the collection of hardwood for young forest management sites has lowered the price of fibrewood, which means that the aid is going to support the processing of very profitable fibrewood. The rise in body reading requirements does not remove this problem. The first thinning of fibrewood beams is not counted according to the accumulation, which unfortunately means that the aid is not received. As a result, sawmills are not getting a beam, the oversupply of fibrewood is getting worse, the care sector is shrinking and the flow of money and employment is deteriorating, so this is certainly not a positive effect. President! Now to this proposal for a forest destruction bill. The extension of the fight against root rot to, among other things, Kainuu and North Ostrobothnia is seen in quite a way as an exaggeration of emergency protection. At least the same amounts of forest owners with Southern Finland even seem to be squatting. The fight against root roll is possible through investment in a multi-function machine cutting machine and additional work in machine cutting, but it seems that the carrying process should be carried out in chainsaw fellings as proposed by the law. In chainsaw fellings it should definitely be removed. It is big work and even impossible to accomplish when the stocks fall under the logging stars. Mr President! With these words.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-08-ps-77.u574	Mr President! The financial law on sustainable forestry and the sitting that took place during this 24-hour period have the common feature that we have now spent 14 hours here in this Chamber discussing different issues, and, on the other hand, on the forest side, especially in Lapland, the tree is growing very slowly. The Financing Act for Sustainable Forestry aims to ensure that we have sustainable forest growth in Finland. Last winter, we in the Chamber dealt with the previous stage of this law, but there were clearly a number of points left to be corrected. A particular problem I experienced was that there was too much work for the forest centres and the whole became too bureaucratic. There must be some way out of this bureaucratic whole, because there is too much of this money that goes into running the administration. That is why I wanted to come here first and foremost to talk, because there is one clear deficiency in this Kemera Act — it remained here last winter — namely the renewal of under-productive forests. In the previous law, this regeneration of under-productive forests was involved, and it is very important for us forest owners in the north that up to half of Central Lapland's forests are in need of support for regeneration of under-productive forests, which has come through Kemera. This omission from this law last winter was a very bad thing, which caused a lot of difficulties. Last April, the application period in accordance with the previous law expired and so many applications were now received for it that the future funding of Kemera by the previous law will probably last two years for the renewal of under-productive forests. Which means we don't have to have a new law coming into force right away. But I really do hope, and we forest owners in the north hope that, even after this proposal, this Kemera law will be re-examined in a few years' time, and we will have this under-productive forest renewal in exactly the same way as last winter, when this law was adopted, we will also have to start preparing this point. It was then explained that it would not be possible under EU legislation, but, as has been said, it is possible under the de minimis rule. So while savings are to be made, this is a point that would be needed to make them produce. In Finland, however, additional conditions must be created for bioproduction and forest growth.
