ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u1	Timo Soin, a representative appointed as a member of the Government, must be replaced by the first Vice-President of Parliament. The election of the first Vice-President will take place today at the second plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u2	The election of the President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. I would like to point out that the name of the candidate must also be identified with sufficient precision, if necessary, using the first name. Nu följer val av talman, viiket förrättas enligt 34 § 2 momentet i Finlands grundlag och 5 och 6 § i valstadgan för riksdage. Valet förrättas således med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska enligt namnupprop i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag vill påminna om att candidates namn ska anges tillräckligt tydligt. Vid behov kan också förnamnet anges. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Timo Kalli, Juho Eerola, Arto Satonen and Antti Lindtman. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter granska röstsedlarna och rösterna vid lies: Timo Kalli, Juho Eerola, Arto Satonen och Antti Lindtman. I note that the votes cast are not made public. Jag ber er notera att namnen på röstsedlarna inte läses upp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u3	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u4	When Mr Lohela has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2015 Parliament. Eftersom ledamot Lohela vid liet erhållit mer hälften av de avgivna godkanda rösterna, har Hon valts till talman för den återstående tiden av riksmötet 2015. Congratulations, gratulerar!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u5	I would ask the President to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Jag ber talmannen att inför ricksdage avge sin högtidliga försäkran i enlighet med 4 § i arbetsordningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u6	I Maria Lohela assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Maria Lohela försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens ragtigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u7	I would ask the President-in-Office to take his place in Parliament and to take action. Jag ber riksdagens fru talman inta talmannens plats och börja utöva sin befattning.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! Thank you for your confidence. Together with the Vice-Presidents, we will do everything in our power to ensure that Parliament can carry out its important and responsible tasks in the best possible way. Jag tackar för det förtroende ni har visat mig. Tillsammans med vice talmännen ska vi göra vårt bästa för att riksdagen så framgångsrikt som öjligt ska kunna sköta sin viktiga och ansvarsfulla uppgift. The world around us, closer and farther, is not simplified, but complicated. It brings us problems and challenges that need to be resolved, sometimes quickly. That is where courage, openness and intransigence help us. We face many difficult questions and issues to decide. The state of the Finnish economy is serious. You can't live in debt forever. High unemployment is costly for society and not all its effects can even be measured in money. At the same time, we must be able to support and help those who need the help of others beyond difficult times. The new government has drawn up a programme aimed at turning our country into a better one. The Government will bring its own solution for Parliament to weigh next week. The unique and meaningful role of opposition parties is to respond to it with their own ideas and presentations. The House is an expression of well-thought, well-founded and spontaneous words and ideas in which there are no false opinions. The MPs are a lot of guards. More than five million people will be decided by the Members of Parliament. Let us take the work seriously and be worthy of it. Respect each other, for everyone's contribution to the common cause is important. Riksdagsledamöterna har ett stort ansvar att axla. De ska fatta beslut som berör över fem milioner tunniskor. Låt oss ta vårt uppdrag på allvar och leva upp till förväntningarna. Vi måste respektera vaandra och förstå att pool insats är viktig när man driver gemensamma frågor. Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! Jag önskar er handlingskraft och framgång i ert arbete för Finlands bästa. I wish you energy and the best of success in your work for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u9	A statement addressed to Parliament by another Vice-President of Parliament shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-29-ps-11.u10	The Council of Presidents shall give its assent to the request for
