ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Jukka Gustafsson and 60 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government on the impact of VK 1/2015 on growth, educational equality and skill levels. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u4	Madam President! The economic situation is weaker than anticipated at the end of 2014 and in winter 2015. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by the breach of the 3% general government deficit threshold set in the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in 2014. This could not be foreseen in the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Finland and the European Commission at the end of 2014. The break-up of the deficit rule was the result, in particular, of an increase in expenditure, but income has also been lower than anticipated. In this context, it should be noted that the expenditure of social security funds also increased. Madam President! There is a need for significant structural reforms in the Finnish economy. The previous government introduced a budgetary plan and, in the view of the Christian Democrats, it was a very necessary and far-reaching reform. In practice, this means that public finances are considered as a whole, i.e. local government finances and central government finances are involved in the same audit. At the beginning of April, the Government approved the budgetary plan for 2016-2019. The plan was the last so-called technical budgetary plan of the previous parliamentary term and therefore no longer included any new decisions, which in itself was regrettable, because we would have been badly in need of structural reforms in the last term. The implementation of the structural policy programme of the Government of the previous parliamentary term would have contributed to fiscal consolidation and also supported compliance with EU rules. The reforms will only have a long-term impact, so implementation at the end of the parliamentary term would no longer have changed the observed development of the 2014 deficit. Madam President! With this in mind, we attach the utmost importance to the ability of the government and Parliament to carry through the necessary reforms during this period. This was also stated by the IMF in their report yesterday, where they stressed that in balancing public finances priority should be given to long-term pressures such as health and social services reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u5	Madam President! The National Audit Office gave positive feedback on the functioning of this government, its leadership and its determination both to balance central government finances and also to move reforms forward. In this report, the National Audit Office put very high priority on the fact that the Stability and Growth Pact has now been violated for Finland as well. As far as Finland is concerned, what we reproached the countries of southern Europe is now, as it were, at a corner point where action needs to be taken, and that is why it is important that, although we always get criticism from the sector to which any reforms or cuts are directed, we can do them. The target is all Finnish groups regardless of age or place of residence or income formation. The general government deficit is more than minus 3% of GDP, and the government debt is going to exceed 60%, according to some criteria it has already exceeded, so we are forced to do it ourselves so that we can continue to decide our own affairs and no one from outside will then decide ours. This is not going to be an easy task, and I would also like to see understanding from the opposition, because I think that people on that side too really know where we are and where we are, and the previous government has had to make tough decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u6	Mr President! I also took the floor here, which is probably two minutes ago. This report by the Audit Office states that the corrective part of the Stability and Growth Pact and its implementation will depend very much on the development of employment and growth. Increasing employment brings costs and can only be achieved if new jobs are created. It would now be extremely important that, even if we look back here, we realise that the questions ahead are the ones we are facing, how we are responding to the challenges of employment, because it is the only way to bring Finland's economy up, to obtain tax revenue, and in this way to avoid the fact that in this budgetary balance: [President MariaLohela : Representative Myller,nowonanswered,it2minutes later. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u9	Mr President! The special report of the National Audit Office is an extremely important basic document to understand what is happening in public finances, how it is controlled and what our commitments to the new EU system are. This report well describes the framework in which decisions are taken, and at the same time it will unwittingly describe the problems of this framework. The framework is excellent in conditions where the economy is growing and public finances are sound. The European Union's supervisory systems involved in this will help to ensure that a healthy growth path cannot be removed without being adequately quoted and having to explain their own activities to other countries and their colleagues. Then: This answers very badly to the question that when you are in trouble, what do you do? In this frame, which well becomes apparent, is this kind of German discipline in the background that is put into a sufficient number of articles, and when those articles exist, then the public finances will come into play. However, this does not answer the question of what these costs are when this discipline is used, and how far will it go when these hard decisions are taken to bridge deficits. We have long received very unfortunate examples of this, particularly in the case of Greece. This brings us to the point that Mrs Myller rightly and rightly raised, which is the prospect of growth. However, the success of public finances depends on a functioning economy, sound economic growth, high employment rates, improved employment in difficulty and all the policies involved. Of course, this report by the Agency does not give any indication of what should be done. It provides the mechanical framework for assessing deficits in their various forms, whether structural or budgetary, and at what stage the various possibilities for sanctions will start and what kind of studies will have to be carried out. But this does not solve the question of how to start growth, and this report does not even recognise that in some respects these fiscal deficit constraints and these procedures can be problematic in terms of generating growth: it will have to be choked so much that it will delay the chances of growth. However, when Mr Kalmari was concerned about this situation and brought it to the current political debate, it must be said that, fortunately, all these proposals for the last alternative budget in the centre — and the statements you voted for last December — were not implemented, because this deficit would of course be many times greater than what it is now if all these proposals had been implemented. But I am delighted that Mr Kalmari has noticed that these deficit restrictions exist. Then I shall return to this growth outlook. In the context of the debate on economic policy, it is also regrettable that the word 'export' is not found in this report. This also describes the thinking of economic policy quite a bit. This looks at the static economic figures, does not take into account the growth outlook — and of course it is not the task of the agency, but the political decision-maker, the government of the country, the big line of the economy and the way we manage to cope with it must think about how to make growth and how to ensure employment, how to get the unemployed to work, how to get the recipients of passive labour market, unemployment benefits to work with active use of money rather than continue to use passive benefits. And when this lacks an export perspective, I say that there is a great deal missing. It is also a major problem with current economic policy that, for some strange reason — although we say from time to time that the country lives on exports — when we look at what economic policy medicines are offered to us and what should be decided, this aspect of exports is forgotten, even in this topical debate. In other words, if this structure of exports is not diversified — even in the short term — and if export costs cannot be facilitated, then all of this will become a greater burden. Then we come to a topical debate. Unfortunately, the debate that is currently taking place does not include these elements for facilitating export costs. They are not talking about fairway charges, they are not talking about rail charges, they are not talking about energy taxation for industry, they are not talking about any of these elements. And if we do not wake up to this, that export is the one that currently requires the attention and effort of all of us, then these measures will be quite limited. When Mr Rinne, President of the SDP, spoke before the elections about export-driven economic growth, I noticed that some of the listeners said that this is already familiar, that there is nothing new about it, that we are talking about something else. But here it is that if it exports not draw and if the export costs are too high, then of course it does not draw, and if it is wrong, then there is no what to sell, at any cost level. I believe that this is our core problem. If we do not reply to this, these separate reports from the Inspectorate will be darker once after. And while this is being rolled around and even though the municipal economy is involved, it does not change this basic issue of economic activity, growth, the importance of exports in it and the importance of high employment rates. This is a great report, and this deserves to be carefully scanned, with a lot of good observations. Finally, I would just like to draw attention to one small detail in which, in my opinion, the agency is right when it talks about the profits of Solidium and says that its limits are as high as they can be, and we always have to think about changing the state's existing wealth to a new form, whether it is new, what is being done, something that is likely to be as productive as the old one. I hope that this word of warning will remain in mind when timely decisions are taken on the sale of the state's current assets and also then on the raising of levels of return. Not that there is no need for reassessment on the balance sheet and a need for continuous evaluation, but it is worth noting that we are not misleading ourselves. If the existing assets produce and produce quite well, then there must be a high claim to it when it is changed into a new form, even in the medium term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u10	Madam President! First of all, the last term of government. There was always an alternative to what we would have saved. But on that point I agree exactly with Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Myller that it is only with growth that we can move forward. That is why the Government Programme had clear key projects and investments, which will provide us with jobs and livelihoods. A good example is that we are going to mobilise 15 million cubic metres of wood and create new jobs and new cash flows. Unit labour costs are one of the key factors affecting competitiveness and were sought by means of a social contract, as part of a social contract. When it was not born, the government had to do what a man has to do when otherwise no solution arises. Energy is an important cost factor in our competitiveness. That too is written in the Government Programme, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u11	Mr President! When there is reason to give and give thanks, it should be done. First thank you to the National Audit Office. There must be many other MPs who have been interviewed for their assignment. The Audit Office carries out an external evaluation of its own activities: how their tasks are assessed and seen to have been successful. In this connection, I would also like to say that the National Audit Office serves the MPs well, and, in a way, from this point of view, which Mr Heinäluoma raised, there are of course shortcomings in the reports, which are due to other reasons. Then that second thank-you comes to Mr. Heinäluoma. It is a pity that there are so few representatives here now, as Mr Heinäluoma
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u12	Mr President! Although there are not many Members of Parliament in this Chamber today, I believe that the praiseworthy speech by Eero Heinäluoma is spreading about this. In my opinion, Mr Heinäluoma raised an important issue, namely the competitiveness of this export industry and the share of Finnish exports in our economy in general. It is important, it is very important. Our export structure is relatively narrow, but then this export-related subcontracting is very extensive. This is what's missing in this report. This is regrettable because we should talk more about all the means by which we can make the export industry more competitive if we do not leave the Eurosystem. These actions, as listed here by the Heinäluoto, are important, but then particularly important — including in this ring — is the social pact that we have not yet signed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u13	Mr President! I fear that this is not a social agreement or even a labour market agreement, but a whole new tune. And I fear that this general talk of a 5% reduction in wages is not the answer to our problems. I met people in the sawmill business who are in a lot of trouble. They explained their own cost structure: 75% is the price of wood — 75% is the price of wood. The cost of wages at the sawmill was 8 per cent for this entrepreneur. Now, if the 8% is reduced by 5%, then we are in a situation where the price of the final product falls by 0.4%. So this need for exports has not been truly understood, and these thought-provoked measures are targeted in a way that they will not solve this. If we have a paper mill with 6 or this same 8% labour cost
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u14	Mr President! It is quite true that this competitiveness leap, this 5%, will not be taken out of wages. If we are talking about the labour market, the question is more about how much we work. In my opinion, the wage level in Finland is in the balance compared to our cost level and there is no reason to calculate gross earnings, but perhaps there is a slight increase in working. But this is affected, quite rightly, by these costs of raw materials for industry very significantly, in addition to logistics costs and many other costs for the export industry. But I still think that, in this situation, we would have devalued in the old days, so to speak. The problem for our export industry is precisely the involvement of the Eurosystem, and competitiveness in this system will then require internal devaluation, and they will then be a wide range of measures, and if it is not, for example, a reduction in the overall level of labour costs,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u15	Mr President! If we are talking about this internal devaluation, would it not be logical for the government to take action that would directly reduce the cost of this export industry? Isn't that the logical answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u18	Mr President! In my thinking, the value of the export industry and industry as a whole to the Finnish economy has not been reduced in any way. On the contrary, there is a great deal of emphasis on this situation. These measures, which will improve the competitiveness of our industry, will be taken. One major factor is, of course, these fairway charges, which have been halved, but in practice it means that it is a significant expense for the export industry in particular, and in the port of Kotka, for example, it means that the Baltic countries are much cheaper than Finland, and we therefore lose revenue. As far as these fairway charges are concerned, I personally believe that the State as a whole would win more than that reduction in income would be. These issues should be discussed and discussed together on how we will improve the conditions for the export industry to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u19	Madam President! This debate on this report by the National Audit Office has escaped to a little strange roads, when Mr Heinäluoma here also doubted the price of the subsidy. A little bit of taste left in the mouth that would be the problem with the price of the log, which is bad news in this country. The only thing about wood is that both fibrewood and logwood, both of them, have a destiny connection, and that whole palette, when it works, is a little wrong to look at one point about it if you ignore the whole thing. But in this situation, now that this issue, the situation in the Finnish economy, is being discussed, I refer to the phrase created by statesman Juho Kusti Paasikivi in his day, that 'the beginning of all wisdom is a recognition of the facts', and the fact is that we are too expensive a country to produce different products for that world. The contestants have passed us by, and the statistics tell us this harshly. I think everything else is more or less a smart-ass.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u20	Madam President! In this regard, there is an explanation for the distribution of the price of wood, but the cost structure in the export industry is also very much influenced by standards, and it is an illusion to think that our exports are merely exports of huge, large units. Today, exports are also very much made up of exports from the SME sector, and especially on that side, we are very pleased that we can also improve this competitiveness by means of standards. We also hope that the opposition will be involved in these efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u21	Mr President! I thank colleagues for their valuable comments. However, with regard to the price of wood, I assume that this entrepreneur's report was correct, i.e. the price of wood at his sawmill is 75% of the cost. That is not overturned by Mr Hoskosen's previous speech. Now, if you want to influence how he can take that tree to the world market, I guess it is so that you have to talk about all the costs. It cannot be thought that we are talking about wages, as Mr Kalmari does, saying that wages are a problem when they represent 8% of the costs in this company. You can't talk about the price of wood because the tree owner doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u26	Madam President! The price of wood is determined by the price formation of large buyers, and the total price of wood has remained at the same level for 20 years, the real price, 20 years approximately the same level. But whether the price of logs and the price of fibrewood are shared as well, you can ask Metsäteollisuus ry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u27	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u28	Madam President! A few comments on this excellent report, which is indeed a very interesting-looking document up to its cover. This report rightly states that the Audit Office welcomes the intensification of fiscal governance, and the second point is that at the same time the Agency pays attention to the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sipilä, where the implementation of this task is very clearly reflected. It is hoped that now that Finland has this target of EUR 10 billion to strengthen this public finances in the coming years, it will be a long-term objective. If you look at it now, whether through today’s wooden stores or through some other matter, the cold fact is that the big ship is slowly turning. We must take care of exports when the cold fact is that more than half of Finland's gross domestic product comes from exports — it is a cold fact when all the money is counted. Of course, different calculation methods can be made, but without export this country will wither. This is why the productivity jump to which Juha The Sipilä government is aiming, it's extremely important. We remember the year 91 C.E., when the government of Esko Aho began, we had too much. We had to devaluation it first and then let it float. The interaction with the reduction in exchange rates was about 40%. That was a terrible situation back then, it was a tough one, but now we don't have this D pill anymore. I hope that this fact will be recognised. If we had had the possibility of devaluing in this country — we must be honest with ourselves and this recognises — we would probably have used it by now. It's no longer possible. We have to do that much-talked internal devaluation. This debate should have taken place when Finland joined the euro. It's a little pointless to have that conversation right now. When Finland joined the euro from the beginning of 2002, this should have been taken into account, but it was not even discussed for some reason at the time. But now we are living on this matter in real time anyway, and how are we going to work this out? It is up to us and no one else.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u29	Mr President! There is also an interesting point in this report from the National Audit Office. It says that total expenditure in the Finnish public sector has grown considerably less than the growth rate set by the spending rule would have allowed. And now, for a long time, we have heard about the guilt of the public sector. There low - paying nurses get too much pay, they have to get these savings. But this is a very good consideration considering how we defend the Finnish Nordic welfare model and make sure that the public sector is the one who provides and provides services and does them effectively. Indeed, we will not be able to get this thing right either — that is, to get money into the public sector — unless exports do. There has been a very good debate here, particularly with regard to Mr Heinäluoma, on what action should be taken. To put it another way, when we are aiming for this 5% reduction in wage costs, we should consider how much more we could achieve if we were to improve working conditions, increase job satisfaction, do things in the right way. For example, some export companies have achieved a truly low level of global leadership by involving employees to consider how better to do things, how to increase innovation and thus improve exports. This would also be the best internal devaluation model that would create competitiveness and then
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u30	Madam President! To Mrs Myller: Thank you very much for your hard-working speech, but perhaps it is worth paying attention to the fact that, if, at the time when these two devaluations were carried out in 1991, the combined effect was 40 %, then you will not be able to claim that, by improving working conditions, this export of ours went into circulation. There may have been a little bit of that too, I do not deny it, but the 40% devaluation — first devaluation, then the mark — was the drug that bit at the time. And that same devaluation is now in our hands, not by that name anymore, it is done as an internal devaluation. But the claim that this job is done with some small proposal and makeup: it is certainly not possible, but it is now really necessary to make the productivity leap that Juha Sipilä's government is aiming at genuinely. It's not nonsense, it's a genuine quest, and that's what every Finn needs to do. It's not good for the city center and it's not good for the demos alone. It's gonna take the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u31	Mr President! Indeed, we must now be able to make a proper assessment of what matters. At the moment, we are going to be running a little over there and here, taking suggestions from the shelf, and we have no idea what their effects are. In other words, this impact assessment should be carried out. The fact that we are increasing working time in a situation where we have 400,000 unemployed may not solve this issue either is the fact that we are reducing wages in a situation where we do not have domestic consumer demand. I'm sure the search for that result will have to be about trying to get out of there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u32	Mr President! This report has been praised — and thanks. However, I would like to raise one more point in the report, which deserves more careful scrutiny in Parliament, and it concerns the idea that taxation should also be included in this rule of the spending limits. I will return to this theory of German discipline. If you really imagine that all the elements of the economy's spending on revenue can be put into a five-year regulatory framework where one cannot change the other without some change being made in the other - in other words, that taxes must not be calculated without counting expenditure, or that taxes should also be put into spending limits regulation in relation to these tax exemptions - I wonder if that is how we are going to do with each other's employment and the nation's wealth. So there is also a risk that this regulation will be overtaken. That is our main question there — and this is something we have talked about to some extent — where the new jobs come from and how old jobs can be maintained. And when Mr Hoskonen spoke about this proportion of exports in the national product, I fear that if there has not been a dramatic change in recent days, then exports will amount to about 40% of our GDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u35	Mr President! If anything positive about this exports, Mr Heinäluoma, is said, it is said that in January-July the trade balance was in surplus of 500 million, and it is in the forestry and metal industry that there has been little light. But I also agree that exports are everything a and o. But as an entrepreneur, I know that today’s entrepreneurs are thinking — just as Mr Gustafsson and I were there on Entrepreneur’s Day — that we should find the products or services we produce here and be able to export. And I know it's not an easy equation, but it turns out there too that something just, they say, like a madman can become a great export product. To hope now that a little light is in sight. And it must also be said that governments go and come and everyone has made mistakes and every government would have had the opportunity to do then those things that the present government does not do, and vice versa. But let's just say, if we play together, we'll have some sort of result again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u36	Mr President! Mr Mäkipää had an excellent speech, as was the case with many others here, but it referred specifically to this significance, which is the case with the activities of entrepreneurs. As far as the improvement in the trade balance is concerned, unfortunately it has improved by reducing imports, not by increasing exports. So this reduction in imports is not yet going to save us. But then here's what we can do better. In my view, the risk here is that this government's social contract project, in which I do not see either society or agreement — a project it is, but neither one of these — is a bad thing, is that it is now taking the debate to this 5% reduction in wages and not to the means to which the representative is going. Mäkipää paid attention, i.e. what could be done at the workplace to unlock people's skills and work together between entrepreneurs and employees. I will take two examples in this area in terms of productivity. Both come from the public sector this time and come from the city of Espoo: Last week it was reported that the chief medical officer of Matinkylä Health Centre had organized the work there in a new way, and when there were a lot of comments that deadlines did not happen and the reception was not possible, he was able to over half the waiting time simply by reorganizing the work and getting the staff involved. If I remember correctly, we are in a situation where in seven days we can get to the reception in cases that are not urgent. No one goes to the Matinkylä health center to ask how this was done and move it elsewhere, but everyone talks about cutting the nurses’ salary by 5%. Another example, including from Espoo, which was in today's magazine: Espoo has completely shortened its income support queue. When Espoo received prior comments that there will be no decision on income support within a week, Espoo is now in a situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-16-ps-34.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
