ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u2	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u3	Madam President! The post office is well-managed and internationally recognised. A well-managed postal service is a very important public service. There are people there who do their job professionally. Post office workers are often low-paid, but very committed to their demanding work, doing truly valuable work. Thanks to them, we all get our parcels, letters and cards on time. In recent days, it has seemed incredible that we have read in the newspapers that the employer is pushing down as much as 30% of the wages for these hardworking workers, and, in addition, for a legitimate labour struggle, recruits for the criminal labour force and, in addition to all that, make these hardworking workers train these scabbards. A state-owned company cannot set such an example of personnel policy. [President MariaLohela: Now is the time for a question.]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u6	Mr President! The questioner is quite right that the postal sector is undergoing a major change and that the workers there have had to adapt to the change in the sector and have done an excellent job there. I fully agree with that. The number of letters in the mail is falling and, on the other hand, there will be operators in the sector, on the other hand, there will also be new opportunities and challenges. The post office has a good connection to every home, and it also offers new business opportunities. At the moment, as the questioner well knows, there is a situation in which the negotiations on the agreements are open and the agreement has not yet been reached. In this situation, the message of corporate governance is, of course, that all agreements and good employer practices must be respected and a good agreement must be sought as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u7	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u8	Madam President! Indeed, the measures that the employer is pursuing there may now mean a newspaper distributor whose gross income currently amounts to EUR 1000 per month, a salary reduction of up to EUR 300 — in addition to the wage reductions you have been driving in these compulsory laws. But now that you have said that Post should also follow a good staff policy, do you know that this recruitment of criminal workers is contrary to the ILO Convention? In this case, the state company is grossly violating the agreed rules of the game. If your message is that Post should follow a good staff policy, will you now stop what Post is doing? None of your predecessors have accepted this type of activity, and you are the one who has wanted to be responsible for the management of the company, that is to say, the responsibility of the Post to yourself. Are you going to do something about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u9	Mr President! Maybe this is where responsibility comes from, without asking for a bit of different things. On behalf of ownership control, it is always stressed that good employers' policies, responsible policies, agreements must be followed, but we also need to understand that the sector is in serious difficulties and challenges. I have approached the Post on this very issue of whether international agreements are being violated here, and I have received an answer from the employer that they are not. And I know there's a difference of interpretation about this. But of course the employer must comply with international agreements and all agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u10	Mr President! It is, of course, easy to continue with the question: what does the Minister of Corporate Governance do then, that Is the postal service complying with obligations under international agreements? The second question is Posti's obligation to provide services. In what way is the letter of the Postal Regulation and the Postal Act guaranteed that the postal services are equally accessible throughout the world? For example, it is now planned at a provincial centre the size of Joensuu, so that no actual Post office and Post office would be left there. How can this be?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u11	Mr President! The postal service obligation is still in force, and in part this situation is due to the fact that the employer must be able to meet the service obligation in all situations. This postal service has largely moved to an electronic network thanks to digitalisation. The post office has also responded quite well to it, to various e-services, and in this way it has also been able to respond to the competition in the sector and to the difficult transition situation through digitalisation. This means that a certain number of service points have also had to be reduced, that it is possible to respond to this competitive situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u12	Mr President! Yes, it does seem incredible, Prime Minister Sipilä, your answer. So you are in the process of accepting, you have accepted the use of criminal labour as the representative of the state employer. Work reform is starting to show a pretty cruel face for employees. You have these coercive laws, you have the wages of sick times, you have the vacations, you have the pay benefits of employees. This is the hard line you stand for. At the same time, the state employer has taken in those persons who are in a state employment relationship, in an official relationship and who have been at a demonstration in September. I would like to ask Mr Vehviläinen: have you accepted that the state employer is threatening those government officials who were present at the Senate Square with a warning?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u13	Mr President! In fact, very few employees of the state employer took part in this demonstration, very little. I've never heard of people like this being interrogated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u14	Madam President! According to the Postal Act, postal services have an important universal service obligation to distribute mail to Finnish homes all over the world, but the opening up of competition has led to the emergence of a large number of cream peelers, who distribute easy and affordable areas and collect profits, making it even more difficult for Posti to work. What will the government do to ensure that Posti can continue to secure this universal service obligation? On the other hand, I would also ask the government: what is the government doing in general to safeguard the well-being of people working in state companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u15	Mr President! The Postal Act provides for the universal service obligation of Posti and the universal service obligation of Post concerns letter mail and basic service. The challenge for postal services is that parcels, for example, newspaper distributions, advertising distributions are not part of the universal service obligation and are not subject to postal law. Therefore, this competition is coming from other postal operators around the world, and Posti must respond to it, but this is not a universal service issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u16	Mr President! There were two questions here, one of which concerned the well-being of the staff, and this is a clear message from the owner-manager that the staff will be taken care of. Of course, employees are also the most important resource and the most important factor in the management of state-owned companies. The conclusion being drawn here that I accept the use of criminal labour is quite bold now if I ask the company whether there has been a breach of this agreement and the company becomes the answer that there has been no violation. The matter is between us, but this is the last response I have received from the employer, when I specifically asked whether this measure was in breach of the ILO agreements. The answer from the employer has been that no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u17	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, this did not come unsolicited. You wanted to take ownership responsibility for yourself so that there is no point in denying that there is more than enough here. I have to say that this appears rather ugly, that government program and the post office measures are similar. Forced laws and measures taken in Posti, a wholly state-owned company, are shocking to read. I must say that according to the feedback that comes from those people, their understanding is not sufficient for how to do this. Contrary to what has been said here, I do not want to blame those people for being in a position of submissiveness who are forced to come to that training to train themselves in a job under strike. But I ask, Prime Minister Sipilä, how can you make such a practice possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u18	Mr President! As the Minister for Ownership, which I am happy to do in addition to my own work, my only message in such a situation — I will not go there myself to negotiate, which would probably not be appropriate for the owner — is to negotiate, negotiate, negotiate and settle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u19	Madam President! In accordance with the Postal Services Act, Posti has a public service obligation, as many have pointed out here, and the Posti website advertises how Posti carries small and large shipments to all addresses. However, the current situation in Posti is an example of opening up competition, not during this government, of course, but in the past, where there was a time when it was not ensured that cream peelers would then be involved in this safeguarding of the postal services in sparsely populated areas. I would have asked the minister concerned if there was anything else to be done to improve this situation. Now it seems that there is indeed a supply of certain services abroad and there is no revenue from these, one might say, from a good market in Finland. Is there anything else we can do about this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u20	Mr President! Indeed, the basic postal service or universal service obligation contains only letters, and the sending of letters is unfortunately low. The question is how we can make it possible for Posti to do better, profitable work, so that it can commit itself extensively and serve the whole of Finland. This is also very much the case in this current post situation. Our reflection now, when the postal law has to be reformed and reviewed next spring, is on how we can make it possible for Posti to deliver letters in such a way that it reduces their obligation costs and at the same time makes it possible to provide a more competitive service around Finland. Although the mail offices have been closed down, which is the company's own decision, various mechanisms, kiosks, have been set up at the same time, there have been agreements with R-kiosks, a grocery store, so that the postal service can be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u21	Mr Lindtman, on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u22	Mr President! However, Prime Minister, the fact is that, despite the wishes you have expressed here, this activity will continue all the time in the Post, and it will continue just as long as you allow it to happen. Let me remind you once again: you are the Minister responsible for Post and other state companies and you yourself wanted this power for yourselves. And when you say negotiate, it is not by what Posti does with this recruitment of the criminal labour that he prepares for the negotiation, but by which he prepares for a labour battle. It seems that the Finns also accept this, along with all forced laws and the cracks in universality and the cuts in unemployment security. Prime Minister, there are concerns from the airport that this is not just a matter of preparing for the workers' expense, by trampling on wages, you are preparing the Post for sale.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u23	Mr President! It was therefore a question of whether Posti would be prepared for sale by trampling on staff's salaries. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u24	Next question, Mr. Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u25	Madam President! Last week we have had to see quite cold material from Finnish farms and slaughterhouses, which shows a rather gross indifference and cruelty to the treatment of animals. You, Minister Tiilikainen, have told me that you are shocked by this footage. However, it is essential for us to hear how you intend to deal with the mistreatment of animals. It is important that the Minister intervenes with the responsible authority and goes through all the cases that have been raised. It seems pretty clear that the industry's self-monitoring is not working. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: How does the government intend to improve controls on farms and slaughterhouses so that such images and abuses are no longer seen? Are slaughterhouses to be subject to continuous camera surveillance? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u26	Mr President! Animals deserve good treatment both during their lives and during slaughter, and the production of unnecessary pain and pain is explicitly prohibited by law. It is up to the authorities to find out what has been seen with the various materials described, and if the law has been broken, it is also a police matter. This is what I have imposed on the authorities concerned, as the law requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u27	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u28	Madam President! The whole Finnish Animal Protection Act is being reformed in a hurry, but you, Minister Tiilikainen, have decided to suspend this work at the beginning of the post of Animal Protection Ombudsman. This has given rise to a great deal of concern about where this whole reform is going. However, during this legislative reform, animal conditions should improve, because it is up to us humans to care for those who cannot defend themselves. However, good treatment of animals is also in the interest of Finnish food production. That's why I'd ask the minister: Are you going to cancel your decision to terminate the post of animal welfare agent? Is the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act now aimed at improving the conditions of animals and is it going to address the biggest problems in animal maintenance, such as farrowing cages, animal budding and castration without pain relief?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u29	Mr President! The overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, which is under way and which is being prepared by a working group whose mandate will last until the end of this year, is preparing precisely how animal welfare can be improved and animal welfare control improved. These are the mandates given to the working group in question. And when the group submits its proposal, the normal drafting of the legislation will begin in the course of next year, so that we will have a new Animal Protection Act available from the beginning of 2017. With regard to these details of the content of the law and its implementation by more specific animal regulations, it is the work to come and it is important, but instead I do not accept your claim that I have abolished the role of the animal welfare agent, which you were only setting up for a two-year period: that deadline has passed, and there are very many tasks due to the savings of the state budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u30	Mr President! In Finnish animal farms, animals are mostly well treated. But now the Animal Protection Act is being reformed, the old one is from 20 years ago. It is important that it becomes good, better than the previous one, also for animals. That's why they do it. Recent events that we have seen on television as documents, flashes, have been terrible and serious violations of animals. In Finland, e.g. dogs are trained with electric collars and strangulation collars. Sweden does not. There are many very difficult and gross things to do with animals that must now be reformed and made better for animals. Are animals really seriously thinking about this reform and, for example, are these electric collars possibly being removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u31	Mr President! As I said earlier, improving animal welfare and ensuring animal welfare control are major tasks of that legislation. There's a lot of details. These include the place where the animals are kept, the treatment, the zootechnical process, the animal competitions, everything of this kind, and it is pointless for the Minister to try to take a more detailed view. This reform of the Animal Protection Act is being carried out in a broad working group, and this week, for example, I met with animal welfare organisations, whose views I heard about this preparation of the Animal Protection Act. The working group will do its job, then the legislation will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u32	Madam President! It is truly regrettable that the very cold line of this government is also reflected in animal welfare. According to the Government's records, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are more likely to weaken the penalties for infringements of animal welfare, for example, to reduce controls and to dismantle the common rules for the promotion of animal welfare. How on earth can your line be in line with the situation where the public is concerned and NGOs say that we are going into the back of animal welfare? You didn't answer the question. You have the power, Minister. Are you going to propose to retain the post of animal welfare agent? That would be a very important act in this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u33	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, no legislation or regulation on animal protection has been weakened, not even the first. They're all still in place. The Animal Protection Act is being reformed, the working group is doing its job. I just told you when that schedule is coming. The impact and impact and usefulness of the post of that animal welfare agent, which has been established for a period of two years and is due to expire by the end of this year, will be assessed and, in the context of the overall reform of the Animal Welfare Act, it will be assessed whether it is necessary to establish that post. As I have just said, if Parliament wants to ensure the work of the Animal Protection Ombudsman in this interim period too, Parliament will exercise budgetary power and will be able to return that money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u34	Madam President! It is quite clear that animal abuse is unacceptable and, as Mr Tiilikainen said here, appropriate controls are carried out by the authorities and then penalties and sanctions strike and snap. It's obvious. And as he also said, no deterioration, no weakening has been done and should not be done, it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u37	Mr President! Animal abuse is certainly not tolerated, and farm animals, like pets, deserve good treatment. Finland has sought to ensure this through the development of animal welfare legislation and, among other things, the development of a support system for agriculture. Farmers have, for example, taken advantage of animal welfare support or compensation, actively applied for it as a voluntary tool to go further beyond the legislation in this animal protection area. The Finnish Animal Protection Act also ensures that pigs raised in Finland are allowed to keep their pigtails, unlike in many other countries. Unlike in many other countries, we are allowed to keep our beaks. And in public procurement, we have to consider whether the competition can set up similar good animal protection or
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u38	Mr President! Finnish food and also the good treatment of Finnish animals are matters for us to take care of. The reputation of Finnish food in the eyes of consumers is vital to Finnish agriculture as a whole, that is, if the welfare of agriculture is to be taken care of, then we also want to invest in the treatment of animals and the good quality of food and environmental protection. Now we are facing such a challenge, that once the government has registered in the Government Programme that no extra costs are incurred for agriculture, the question arises whether you see animals as good treatment and environmental protection costs or rather as opportunities to raise the reputation and appreciation of Finnish food and that Finnish consumers want to buy domestic food. If you think in a very old-fashioned way that better treatment of animals, for example, in legislation, would only cost money, then according to the government programme you will not do it. But if you think modernly that consumers expect ethical production from Finns, and many producers want to do it themselves and want to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u39	Mr President! I am, as well as the entire government, a modern friend of animal welfare, a modern developer of Finnish agriculture and food production. For example, when we decided to capitalise the Agricultural Development Fund, what a cry for it rose on the side of the opposition. What's that money for? Increase the support for investments in animal welfare slightly, increase renewable energy subsidies slightly, so that more farms can start to improve animal welfare levels and still retain their valuable role: to produce food for Finland and the world. First, we need to ensure that Finnish consumers know the level of Finnish livestock production and agriculture and are prepared to pay more for it than those products that are not produced by such high standards, and if this gives us export opportunities, for example, organic production that is even higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u40	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u41	Mr President! Yesterday we heard very gratifying news about how the government has taken into account the criticisms of the Left Alliance, civil society and the rest of the opposition and has decided to withdraw its motion for an amnesty of tax evaders, i.e. the proposal for effective repentance. At the same time, the government is cancelling some of the cuts in the fight against the shadow economy. But, Prime Minister, why stop there? However, why does the government intend to continue to prepare a register of tax evasion and money laundering, despite the unanimous rejection of this project by law enforcement?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u42	Mr President! This issue of the management register has been the subject of a consultation and has been received from these interested parties and we are waiting for them. When these statements are known to us, then the government and the Minister for Finance will consider the follow-up: whether to change something, whether to move it forward as it stands or what it is — the next step after the very normal stage of the legislative order. Of course, the opinions will now be examined very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u43	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u44	Mr President! However, I believe that the decision to continue working on this project shows that the government is not consistent in its action against the shadow economy and tax evasion, and it is the coherence that is most important from the point of view of this operation. With regard to the fight against the shadow economy, it is therefore very important that action is systematic and long-term. Since 96 years of the Government's decision, the programmes to combat the shadow economy have played a crucial role in this work. I would now like to ask whether, in addition to restoring these funds, the government is also going to continue these programmes to combat the shadow economy as before.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u45	Madam President! Mr Andersson draws attention to a very important question, in fact we had a good debate in the Committee on Audit yesterday. After all, we are now in a situation where, for the time being, there have been six programmes in the shadow economy, as I recall, and since 1996. We will deal with this package on 17 November. in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to consider how we can take this whole forward. That is why it is important: because the operation of the shadow economy is often criminal and because we are potentially losing between EUR 4 and EUR 6 billion in tax revenue. We will look at this as a whole and wonder whether it is worth keeping fixed-term programmes or drawing up a longer-term action plan. This, moreover, was another reason why we returned that money to progress on financial crime. This is a difficult whole, but we are thinking about this seventh programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u46	Madam President! I think it is a great thing that the government and the parliamentary groups of the government parties jointly decided that the funds needed for the police to fight financial crime should be found, and also that this law of so-called effective repentance should be withdrawn from here. It was a question of weighing up the fact that, okay, there may be some additional tax revenue, but at the same time we will have to abandon the fundamental criminal principles. And I think it was a good thing that this decision was reached and this law was withdrawn. When it comes to the grey economy, it is easy to talk about tax planning. And one of the loopholes in legal tax planning today is that you can go to Portugal and not pay a cent of your pension to Finland or Portugal. What's going on with the negotiation to close this loophole?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u47	Madam President! This was an issue which was also dealt with very well by the previous government, under the leadership of the finance ministers, and we are now taking it forward. The situation in Portugal is that there has just been an election and is about to be a new government. In fact, the situation in Portugal is currently rather confusing, but at the level of the authorities these negotiations are progressing. We have said quite frankly that if there is no solution to this old tax treaty to block this loophole, then we will end the agreement, which in practice means that the system cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u48	Madam President! In my opinion, too, it is very good news that the government has found wisdom among itself in withdrawing from these proposals in relation to this law of effective repentance, the so-called amnesty law for tax evaders, and on the other hand, it is now withdrawing the austerity proposals that it has made to the budgets for combating the shadow economy. For example, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights left the House unanimously, cross-border by government and opposition parties, with an opinion on the draft budget that these funds should be allocated to the fight against the shadow economy as a whole, because that is a very important issue. But I would still like to return to this question of this management register law. What will the government do about it? Is it really going to allow ownership to be hidden abroad behind the management registers, or is it also going to correct this flaw, which is clearly inside its proposal? Is the government also going to withdraw this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u49	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Marin for her annual thanks and congratulations for the excellent work done by the government on these issues. With regard to the management register, too, we will continue on the basis of experts, in peace, in moderation, not by ploying, by analysing this legislative package of almost a thousand pages, which we have just received the views of 36 experts. Now perhaps one misunderstanding, Mr Marin, needs to be corrected. In other words, the purpose of this is to create a system in Finland where, for example, data on the management register cannot be hidden from the authorities. We are trying to combine two things here: one is the management registers, which are common European practice, one is the CSD regulation, and the other is the exchange of tax information. With these two working together, there will be much more information.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u50	Mr President! Since the 1990s, the Left Alliance has been the most consistent advocate of the fight against the shadow economy, and I am very pleased that the government has really taken the line between the opposition and the Left Alliance on this issue. — — — — Hopefully, even in the basic line of employment and economic policy, we could gradually come to a more sensible line. The fight against the shadow economy is becoming increasingly international and the exchange of tax information is on the way. It is not enough, for example, to create a framework for the exchange of tax information. It also requires the will, will and resources to obtain information from other countries, for example, and thus to make hidden taxation visible. Sweden, for example, has quite different resources for this activity, and this is also explained by the fact that Sweden is able to discharge much more hidden money from the world than Finland. Are you going to ensure that now that you are clearly more positive than in the past with regard to this fight against the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u51	Madam President! Once again, thank you for the praises that the government will get out of effective repentance, among other things. All we have to do now is take into account the fact that, of course, Sweden has this effective system of repentance, but they may have a slightly different system. Perhaps this is the best time to review the projects we are currently doing in the direction of the shadow economy, because I consider this to be a very important whole. Number 1 is a question of building a national income register. That's what we do all the time. Number 2 is the development of the exchange of information between the authorities, which we are constantly doing. Number 3 is the reform of the money laundering legislation. And number 4, perhaps the most important one, is within the OECD — excuse these word monsters — the BEPS system, which includes the exchange of tax information, 15 different measures, because when capital flows freely around the world, it is also good to have the exchange of tax information. And your direct question was whether we should put more money in order to eradicate this type of activity. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u52	Madam President! It is indeed a great thing that the government is cancelling these cuts in the fight against the shadow economy. At the same time, it is important to note that, in the fight against the shadow economy, the entire chain of authorities must be taken care of from there in the Tax Administration, Customs, the police and the judiciary. Let me ask you in more detail: in what way will this additional allocation be distributed? How to ensure that all authorities have sufficient resources to combat the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u53	Madam President! Once again, I would like to start by thanking the opposition for what you have said since this decision. So this is EUR 6.4 million in this case, and in this case they will certainly be divided between these authorities. Most of them are made up of internal transfers from the Ministry of the Interior — now we must remember that we have added EUR 50 million to internal security, for example — but then we will certainly have to see at some point through the amending budget or other means of increasing this money. After all, this balance is terribly interesting in the sense that we are aware that the better the black economy is eradicated, the more it is, as it were, a profit for public finances and, in particular, for central government finances. That is why this is an important entity that the Chamber has paid attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u54	The Minister Orphan will complete it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u55	Mr President! First of all, the fight against financial crime and the investigation of the shadow economy by the police has to be said that it has never been close to ending. At the moment, some 500 policemen and women are working to combat and investigate financial crime in the black economy. This additional money, which the previous good government had provided for this year, was threatened by a cut of EUR 6.4 million for the police, but now we are — and I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance again for it — finding a solution to how we can find this money. This is an important issue and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior has also been spanked when it is a tight economic time that we are able to do more internally so that this activity can continue at a good level, as it is now. The rest of the funding will then be negotiated with the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u56	Next question, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u57	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi fick för cirka en månad sedan lasa i pressen att Ryssland påbörjat ett massivt muddingsprojekt i anslutning till byggandet av en nyhamn utanför S:t Petersburg.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u58	Mr President! Taking care of the good condition of the Baltic Sea is one of the objectives of the Finnish Government, and this is only achieved through international cooperation, where, for example, all around the Baltic Sea countries cooperate. According to measurements made by the Finnish Environment Agency in Finland, these extensive dredgings around the port of Bronka in Russia have not been seen far here in our territorial waters. Instead, the opacity caused by clay material is really visible from satellite images. Finland has asked for more information about Russia in connection with the Helcom meeting, which has just dealt with dredging masses. We have also directly addressed the Ministry of the Environment to the Russian Minister for Natural Resources for these additional information, and it has also been answered that they will come to the next Helcom meeting for more detailed information. But according to Finnish measurements, nothing dangerous has yet been detected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u59	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u60	According to press reports, it seems that their own environmental authorities were somewhat unaware of this. How is cooperation between Finland and Russia in environmental matters currently working?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u61	In fact, cooperation between Finland and Russia and Estonia has just taken place around the Gulf of Finland, and it has worked well at the level of the authorities, and these effects and measurement results have also been exchanged at the level of the authorities. Environmental cooperation between Finland and Russia needs to be stepped up. We have not had ministerial meetings in more than two years. I have indicated that I welcome the invitation to the Barents Environment Council, which the Russian Minister has provided me with, and I hope to see the Russian Minister responsible in about three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u62	Mr President! It is very good that things in the Gulf of Finland are being addressed here. Of course, in the case of Bronka, milk has, as it were, already fallen on the road. Unfortunately, we may have a new issue in which the lack of cooperation with Russia means that we cannot protect the common Gulf of Finland as quickly as others would like, namely the uncleaned discharge of the waste water from large cruise ships into the Gulf of Finland. The other Baltic Sea countries are now in good cooperation with Finland, which is also submitting an initiative to ban the discharge of waste water from all vessels from the sea since 2021, but unfortunately Russia has not yet agreed to join in this initiative, although there is also an excellent new framework for the recovery of waste water from the sea in St.Petersburg. In particular, Ministers Berner and The Tiilikainen is going to do so so that, in this political situation too, there should be no economic interest in Russia in itself to join us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u63	Mr Mykkänen is exceptionally right both in this introduction and in the layout of the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u64	Next question, Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u65	Mr President! During the summer and autumn, we found that our ability to cope with the sudden increase in asylum seekers was incomplete. Fortunately, the government has corrected past shortcomings. The update of the security assessment, particularly for Iraq and Somalia, has in the very last few days reduced the number of asylum seekers from these countries. At the same time as we have handled the immigration avalanche through Sweden, a similar threat has arisen on our eastern border. Traditionally, the number of asylum seekers coming through Russia has been small, but now there are indications that the Russian border authorities will allow both third-country nationals and their own nationals more easily to go west to seek asylum. From Russia we are not only the first Schengen country but also the first country to be covered by the Dublin Agreement. I would like to ask the Minister responsible: how Finland may have prepared itself for up to tens of thousands
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u66	Mr President! This is a topical issue. We have full preparedness and a situational picture of the situation on the eastern border. They've been following it all along. Thank you for your excellent cooperation with Finnish border authorities and Russian border authorities, thanks to the long-term cooperation over the years, the quantities to Finland have been very low. Now admittedly, as the representative said, there have been such so-called oozing, a few per day, which is taken very seriously. That is why we have intensified contacts with the Russian border authorities in order to maintain a good, stable situation in the north. After all, from Russia to Norway, this stream is very strong, as many as 200 asylum seekers per day. We will investigate and monitor this situation all the time, and we will be in contact with the Russian border authorities, but we will also be preparing for the fact that if there were to be a sudden, wider immigration through it, how will we do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u67	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u68	Madam President! Mr Eerola raised a very important issue in this question, and I too would like to thank the government and the Home Secretary, Mr Orpo, first of all, for the measures you have taken at the Western border to resolve this difficult situation of asylum seekers. However, the situation is that Russia has at some level significantly changed its policy and has now allowed asylum seekers into Finland without proper travel documents. This is very unusual. I would have asked Foreign Minister Soin what measures the government intends to take in order to normalise this border situation at the eastern border.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u69	Madam President! This is an extremely important issue. We have a good dialogue with both the Russian foreign policy leadership and the border authorities, as Mr Orpo has said here. As if we had a model and a foretaste of this through the migration of asylum seekers between Russia and Norway. Among other things, there has been a strong debate in Norway about the fact that Afghans — or any asylum seekers who have been permanently resident in Russia for a long time — can be resolved immediately without any doubt that they are not entitled to asylum. And this principle is one of the things that we should think about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u70	Mr President! The European Union seems to be in considerable trouble with this great influx of refugees, and we have seen over the last few days pictures of genuine ones being built between countries, people being trampled on by mud, not getting help on time — there are many people who need humanitarian aid. I understand that you, Prime Minister Sipilä, are taking part in this Valletta Summit in Malta, which is specifically about migration in Europe. How do you feel about going to that meeting, and in the preparation of this meeting, do you think there are issues that could resolve these major issues and make a common policy for the European Union in relation to this refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u71	Madam President! This is the main topic of the Valletta meeting: to discuss with African countries precisely the reasons why asylum seekers are leaving these countries and what we can do about these root causes. The European Union has jointly decided to set up a major fund to help these countries and also to improve living conditions in these refugee camps. The objective of the European Union is to bring together fund decisions and funds by this meeting. I very much hope that this has also happened, because it is the most important instrument to be able to help people there, so that we do not have to move.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u72	Madam President! This week, the Protection Police released two new assessments affecting Finland’s security. Minister Orpo, you told us earlier this week that some of the people who fought in Isis have also arrived in Finland among asylum seekers. After all, this did not come as a surprise to us. We already talked about this when internal transfers were introduced. The explosion of asylum seekers is also likely to exacerbate the confrontation between the various groups. According to the safety assessment, the threat of hate crimes against immigration has increased, but the changed situation has also brought up the forces of those in favour of immigration. In addition, there is also a potential threat of conflict between groups among immigrants. The threat of a hate crime or a terrorist attack can no longer be ruled out by us. I ask you, Mr Orpo, whether the police and the protection police have sufficient resources and means to prevent terrorism, and how the Ministry of the Interior is prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u73	Mr President! First of all, I think that the protection police did a responsible job of updating their safety assessments and, in fact, probably identifying what Finns themselves can sense, that when there is such a large, large-scale immigration, it also poses security-related threats. The budget for the protection police has been increased for this year, as has the police and the immigration authorities, so that we can meet and manage the large number of asylum seekers. The police are present in the localities where reception centres have been established. The security situation is constantly being mapped out. Preventive work is being done to find ways to increase dialogue with immigrants and native Finns. So let us work on a very broad front to keep Finland safe. We do it between the safety authorities, each in their own roles, but also Finnish organisations and individual citizens are doing very valuable work. This is a very, very wide-ranging question, and I could talk about this for an hour or so, but this is at the beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u74	Mr President! It is very important that these issues are dealt with primarily at European level. In that sense, borders are common. And, as we know, winter is coming, and this will certainly have some effect on movement towards Europe as well. It is important that we talk here about cooperation with Russia, and in that sense I believe that our border cooperation with Russia has worked well. But I would ask Minister Orvo: is there a similar cooperation between the other Nordic countries, particularly Sweden? Although the pressure is certainly decreasing, we still need important, good cooperation with Sweden and with other Nordic countries, constructive, good, reliable cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u75	Madam President! We currently have very close cooperation between the Nordic authorities and colleagues. Last day I met the Swedish Minister for Security. In addition, at the initiative of Finland, we now have the practice of meeting and discussing the situation at every meeting of the Council of Ministers. On top of that, we are also in communication with the authorities, but above all our authorities are getting and exchanging information. We have a better picture of the situation of asylum seekers in Sweden, which is the situation in Sweden, so that we can anticipate the pressures which will then be directed back to Finland through the Tornio. This cooperation is absolutely essential and important. But it is not enough for the Nordic countries to cooperate. We must find European solutions. If we look at the Western Balkans, the situation will be shocking. Tens or hundreds of thousands of people are there under terrible conditions, and winter is coming. And here I would like to say that we have sent tents from Finland to the Balkans, among other things,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u76	And Mr. Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u77	Madam President! There are direct flights from Russia to Africa and the countries of the Middle East, and over the years some people have come here as asylum seekers, but now there are indications that these numbers would increase and Russian politics here might perhaps change a little and this could possibly be used even in this way as a new form of hybrid warfare. I ask the Minister in charge: is there any more precise assessment of the number of third-country nationals currently estimated in Russia?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u78	Mr President! Firstly, there are certainly millions of people in Russia who are talking about the number of immigrants, third-country nationals. However, I would now like to relate this situation. Of course we are very concerned that some 70 to 80 people have come from Russia to Finland on the northern route, but I believe and hope that this is more about some kind of control failure, and we are just looking for confirmation of the good line that has been with the Russian border authorities that this is not the route to finding asylum in the future. But the potential in Russia is, of course, very great if people decide to start moving from there. For the time being, the situation is under control and we will do everything in our power to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u80	Mr President! I intend to highlight some of the initiatives I consider important, in which I am the first signatory, or otherwise I am active... [President MariaLohela : Representative Myller,wait a moment. — I would now ask the representatives to leave the Chamber, those who are not going to follow the debate so that we can get moving. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u83	Mr President! I myself would like to raise two budgetary initiatives. The second is the budget initiative 283 on the increase in appropriations to safeguard the operating conditions of defence organisations. We are talking about less than EUR 400000 and, in fact, this money has received several thousand refresher days, and I think it is very important in this changed world political situation and also in the light of the point of view that we are jointly committed to maintaining credible defence of the country. I very much welcome this initiative. The second is the initiative 314 to increase the budget for the rehabilitation of veterans. We are talking about EUR 4 million and Parliament has unanimously decided in its formal sitting a few years ago that we will see to it that all these honourable citizens and that they receive rehabilitation. It now seems that the money will not be enough with these cuts, and I hope that Parliament will be able to live up to its word here and correct this government's cut here at Parliament's reading. Mr President! Briefly to the end of development cooperation: It is there that organisations are doing an effective job with small amounts of money, and this is where the Committee on Foreign Affairs has already raised the issue of the work of non-governmental organisations. I hope that there will still be a solution, so that they can get this money and continue the work that the Finns are actually very much supporting, that is to say, the work that goes there on the spot, will help and even small sums of money will bring big results.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u84	Madam President! I came here because we have taken a budget initiative to increase the budget to the minimum sickness and parental allowance and to the minimum amount of rehabilitation money. This is particularly true of the lowest income families with children, student families and many families and people in rehabilitation centres. The aim of basic security is to provide adequate income and living standards for all. Even in a tight economic situation, good social policy must prevent people from drifting into poverty. Poverty among families with children is again on the rise in Finland. Child poverty has continued to grow despite the rise in the general income level. Since the 1990s, the number of children growing in poor families has nearly tripled. Unemployment and low incomes increase the child’s risk of poverty. At present, the number of people working below the poverty line is also increasing, with an estimated half a million in Finland. The growth is due, among other things, to the increase in temporary and temporary work. Families who live on the income of one low-income adult who may only receive temporary work have no chance of saving, but all incomes go to consumption. The development of basic security is necessary in order to provide people in different life situations with the support of their everyday life without the need to rely on long-term income support. Child poverty is most common in single-parent families and in families where children are under three years of age. The number of children living in poor families has more than doubled since 1995. Over 130,000 children live in poverty. The proportion of parents of young children in lower income brackets has clearly increased due, among other things, to the difficult employment situation. In every other poor family of children, the guardian works. Poverty affects children’s development and health, among other things. During the previous recession, basic services for children and families were spared. As a result, more corrective services were needed and costs increased. The government’s cutting policy is now driving people into further distress. During the last government term, the government made a significant increase in labour market support and the level of unemployment allowance. During the previous parliamentary term, Parliament increased the lowest maternity and parental allowances, sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance to the level of labour market support. In order to reduce the risk of poverty for families with children and long-term ills, it is important to raise the minimum sickness and parental allowances and rehabilitation allowances again to the level of current labour market support. In 2014, the minimum daily allowance level was EUR 23.92 and the level of labour market support was EUR 32.66. There is a different basis for the accumulation of benefits, so we are aware that the need for an increase would be around EUR 4.17 per day. The strengthening of primary benefits will also significantly reduce the need for income support. For this reason, in our own budget initiative, we have proposed EUR 25 million for minimum sickness and parental allowances and minimum rehabilitation allowances.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u85	Mr President! These budget initiatives also draw attention to this fight against the shadow economy, which was also on the agenda of Question Time. In this respect, it is good that there is always a debate on the role of the opposition, whether it is just blubbering or putting forward alternatives to government policy. Here, by the way, is a good example of the fact that, when the opposition has put forward an alternative to government policy, it seems that it has an impact on what is being said here in Question Time, among other things, on the resources to combat the shadow economy. We hope that in this line the government will continue to listen to the opposition's messages, although it is of course the case that, when the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, just now, with a very broad smile, accepted these thanks, it should be remembered, however, that this is now a matter and a problem which the government itself caused by making these cuts and then corrected. It was then said that this was a great victory, so in this respect the fight against the shadow economy took a big step backwards. We have now returned a little, but not quite to the level left by the previous government. Let us hope that the government will now take these SDP proposals into account, for example: Grey economy road map, over 20 shows. For example, criminalising the payment of underpaid wages would be something that should now be taken into account in this programme to combat the shadow economy. I believe that in this Chamber there is support for these good budget initiatives by the opposition, both in the opposition and in the government parties. Of course, it would have been great if someone from the government had been in charge, or perhaps a representative of the government could reply with what timetable and how this grey economy is now to be managed. For example, will the budget initiative proposed by the Social Democrats be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u86	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u87	Madam President! The initiative in question therefore mainly concerns changing the name of the law and correcting the terminology in the law into a modern and correct language. After all, this is a legislative initiative on the law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex, using the word 'transsexual', which is outdated and incorrect and is based on the translation of the term 'transsexual' in English. The correct and correct term is transgender, which therefore suggests more clearly that it is a matter of gender rather than sexual orientation. The amendment of this name as such does not correct or alter the content of this law, but only changes the terms used to be modern and correct. I myself have also tabled a written question on the reform of the transfiguration during this period and have also received an answer from Mrs Rehula on July 9th. Accordingly, the proposal for a reform of the transfiguration in the previous period would perhaps be on the agenda of this government too, with light green light, but there is no strong assurance of this response. I would like to see a situation in this area, too, which would correspond to this time and to this time. But first of all, I hope that there will be support for this initiative, and even with regard to this name, we will be able to put it into modern practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u88	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Mäkelä for this initiative, it must be supported and I think it is a good sign that we should go through the laws and also say when they are out of date that we can correct them with some small steps or at least get started fixing them. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the same point that the representative has just mentioned, namely that there are quite a few other problems in the translation at the moment, this name is just the tip of the iceberg. I hope that during this term of government we can genuinely dive into this law and also make the necessary corrections that I believe are required by the modern rule of law and human rights. Last April of this year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has drawn attention to the way in which translation can be carried out, and in this context they have adopted a resolution and recommended a number of measures to their Member States. There are still questionable requirements in Finland for transgender people, such as sterilisation, marital status or how to communicate this gender. Hopefully we will have a lot of discussion on these issues and hopefully this season we will continue to develop the good equality that has been seen in Finland in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u89	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank Mr Mäkelä for a good bill. This is a very important initiative and, at the very least, I believe that this title of the law should definitely be changed, as is required by this bill. However, as Mrs Parviainen said, the transfiguration also contains a lot of other important flaws as it stands. The Act is a flagrant violation of fundamental and human rights, including by its call for sterilisation of transgenders in connection with the strengthening of gender. Indeed, in 2015, we still have a group of people who are required to be infertile so that they can strengthen their own gender. These shortcomings have been highlighted by a number of parties, such as the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the Special Rapporteur on Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the UN. These are important human rights issues and I really hope that the parliamentary parties will have the will and will to intervene in these violations of human rights, to move forward with this law, to open it up more widely. After all, this law is now being opened up because of the legal changes required by the law on equal marriage, which means that the law is being opened anyway. At a time when this law is being opened, it would also be an excellent point to correct these other shortcomings, which this law contains, for example, this requirement for infertility, but then to deal with the fact that the whole law should be reformed on the basis of self-determination, taking into account human self-determination considerably better. A written question has also been put to us by the Social Democrats, i.e. Mr Nurminen, Mr Räsänen and Mr Razmyar, who have also asked the minister concerned about the reform of this transfiguration, its fate, at the same time as this equal marriage law is being introduced. But finally, I would like to thank Mr Mäkelä for this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u90	Thank you for your encouragement. I very much hope that the committee will welcome this and also take it seriously in the sense that, if we compare, for example, these citizens' initiatives from citizens, many times these parliamentary initiatives will be buried under the piles of work and will not receive as much serious treatment as the corresponding citizens' initiatives have received. I hope that in this period too, reform will come into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u91	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u92	Madam President! Although it is a bill signed by the signatory, this can be considered as an alternative budget initiative by the Socialist Group. We are proposing amendments to the Income Tax Act, in particular on two points: the basic deduction, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Mr Heinonen, on the other hand, the option of the SDP as an income tax law, the second key point being the conversion of the pension income tax deduction. — I am pleased that Mr Heinonen has remained in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u100	Madam President! We have dealt with this issue several times in this Chamber, but I would like to take this floor again — and otherwise I will continue to do so if the government does not correct this unfortunate and very glaring runoff, which is now falling between the taxation of pensioners and employees. This is an unfair draining defect, and we need to fix it. President! As the group president, Mr Lindtman, said, this joint initiative by all of us Social Democrats is indeed based on the principle of what has long been in place and what everyone has said before the elections at the events of pensioners, that it is fair that a pensioner should not be put at a disadvantage over an employee in terms of taxation. And as Mrs Lindtman rightly said here, when this issue is also linked to, for example, a series of cuts for pensioners, the total amount is quite a cold ride for Finnish pensioners. This situation is genuinely worrying, and I believe that these are the wrong values. I hope that the government will be able to correct and reflect on these for its part. President! In fact, I too would like to come back to the debate a few days ago on this same subject. That's when it was a little unfinished in another context. We also discussed this issue in the context of the amending budget and earlier. That was when we asked who wanted to do this in the end, because it was well known that Mr Stubb's mouth had a basic philosophy that the pensioner should not be placed in an unfair position. We were surprised that, immediately after the election, when the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, put forward a motion, this basic philosophy has turned around 180 degrees and turned into a completely different kind of philosophy. Who, then, finally wanted this to happen? The assembly itself wanted to, or did the center want to, or did the basic Finns want to? It is clear that everyone has accepted this. There was a very strange feeling when Mr Zyskowicz here almost directly said that it was well known that before the elections in the centre that he wanted this reduction in earnings. We came to the conclusion that it is clear that this has certainly been the case: the coalition failed its promise, turned its coat, and then placed the centre here, as it were, from them. But then it was astounded, because after that the group president of the convention, Mr Satonen, walked to this same podium and began to defend this reduction in earnings, always looking for examples for it from England. We were left with a very surprised feeling that who here finally wants what. And it happened that two or three weeks ago, too, I noticed such a public announcement from two representatives of the Assembly that they announced that this draining defect would have to be corrected in the future — note. in the future, to be corrected. This is the moment at hand, and you can fix it now. And now I really appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Heinonen and the partners here. I appeal to you: fix this draining problem here and now, because it could be in line with fair play, not only because it is wrong, but also because, before the elections, the voters certainly demand that the things that are spoken then be kept. And if this is not the case, then at least we owe you the apology, but most importantly, we also owe you the debt to correct this malpractice. That is why the Social Democrats have tabled this bill, and this will be in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u101	Mr President! Of course, during that election campaign, I met quite a lot of pensioners in electoral tents and squares, and I was amazed at the pessimism of most of them. Many said that everyone wants to kiss their ass right before the election and serve the candies, but as soon as the election has taken place, they will be forgotten. I tried to comfort myself that this could not be the case, but now I have to change my mind. I hate to admit that the pessimism of seniors is entirely justified. This is particularly glaring for those who took seriously the fact that, one week before the election, both President Stubb and Mrs Zyskowicz's agg-ressive campaign attacked Prime Minister Sipilä, or then party leader Sipilä, for not being committed to raising the income of pensioners at the same rate as employees' handicrafts. In other words, this was the most important, the first theme for the assembly, which was intended to convince the voters that this is the most important flaw and that is absolutely the most essential thing, as Mr Stubb later said, and in that connection said: the basic philosophy in which the assembly goes into the reign if it has its power. And I'm sure a lot of retired people believed that the coalition would keep its word. As Mr Viitanen has just said, this issue was discussed here last week, and it was particularly surprising that it became apparent that the assembly currently has three valid positions on this same issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u104	Mr President! Fair treatment between different population groups is one of the greatest things to create a successful society, a society in which people value one another and are also prepared to support one another. It is also of particular importance to the acceptability of taxation that the tax burden must take account, in an acceptable way, of the carrying capacity of the various population groups. For the pensioner population, the tax issue has been one of the most prominent issues in recent years. In the run-up to the parliamentary elections in 2007, this was particularly discussed. At the time, all the major parties, perhaps even all the parties, accepted the principle that pensioners' incomes must be taxed in principle on the same principles as employees' incomes are taxed — the same treatment of taxation on labour income and pension income. Accordingly, tax adjustments were introduced gradually to improve the tax treatment of pensioners' incomes. Before the last parliamentary elections, this issue was also strongly raised. That was when the Centre launched this idea of increasing the reduction in labour income in taxation, and then the Coalition took this very seriously. I well remember several speeches on the coalition ranks just over six months ago, in early 2015 and still in March and April. The coalition was absolutely outraged that this central tax model would mean that pensioners would be put on an unequal footing with workers. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u117	Madam President! What is really most striking here is the fact that three positions have now been expressed by the Assembly. It is true that the Assembly believes that this is the right thing to do, or that the Assembly believes that this is the fault of the Centre Party, or that the Coalition Party believes that the problem will be created first and then perhaps corrected later. But the most striking thing is that, in fact, none of these three positions is the position that the assembly held before the elections, the fourth position which, in my opinion, was right, fair and fair, that pensioners should be treated in the same way as employees. That is what Mr Stubb told the pensioners with his heart before the elections. Mr President, what I think is a little too illustrative of the current state of affairs of this government is that first we want people to create a problem and then perhaps when there is a problem that has been caused by the crowds, perhaps it will be corrected or not fixed. Now there are problems that should not even have been brought here, these tax evasion laws and others, which was already mentioned in Question Time. Why do they have to be imported at all? Would you now consider that you should correct this problem immediately before it is brought about? In my opinion, as has been said, this is a rather big scam. I am very sorry about that, because, however, our pensioners have built this country and I think it is important that we keep our word to them. I also think it is important for us to respect our senior citizens in policy choices, and that is why I think that this little circus-like stunt should now be cancelled by the government. As I said, in the final analysis, if the Coalition Party wants to keep this turn of the coat, could the Finns, for example, take this matter up or any other government party — we do not know about the centre? But in any case, there is now a chance for this initiative of the SDP to come and this issue to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u118	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma did not notice anyone on the right side of the Chamber just now, which was due to the fact that Mr Heinonen had sought a representative. Next to Lindtman, perhaps seeking asylum on the other side of the hall, even though Mr. Heinäluoma was watching this matter at a very high altitude. The government parties are silent, and I don't blame them for that. Pensioners are not treated equally with respect to employees. This certainly comes against the Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, that they have agreed with the centre that pensioners should not be treated equally with respect to employees. This budget initiative, first signed by Mr Lindtman, would remedy the situation by extending the pension income reduction. It is not free of charge, and the expected opposition of the government parties is that there is absolutely no money. The fact is, however, that this is a choice of values. At the same time, we can afford to lower the car tax, that is, a new car for those who can afford it. Apparently, a purchase smaller or cheaper than a car is not good enough for the government, one that a pensioner can afford, one that a pensioner with his increased purchasing power could buy and generate the demand for consumption. Here already the representative privately threw this argument from the government parties, which has become so emphatic, that we only want to increase debt. We have said many times in this House and we say again that the alternative budget that we make, which is fairer and genuine growth-creating and which we present here in the Chamber, takes less debt than the government next year. I repeat, less debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u119	Madam President! This is also important for pensioners that, at least on the basis of the messages I have received, quite a few people are concerned about the future — if we continue along this path, where this may end up. If, in this debate, it has now been difficult to get any answers from the representatives of the government parties to this question whether there will be support for this bill, that is to say, the content of which was spoken before the elections by many government parties, in particular the majority, then at least it would be useful to know if the government's position really is that pensioners should be vaccinated more than employees from the same income, whether there is a limit. How far can we go during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u122	Mr President! When I look at this Chamber and the right side of it, where Mr Heinonen is now in his seat but no one else, no one from the centre, no people from the United States, no people from the United States, no people from the United States, no Finns from the United States, I have to say that it is an interesting and very rare phenomenon that there is no one here who is talking about 1.5 million people who do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u125	Madam Speaker! It is certainly clear that we will not be silent on this, and we will be asking each time these debates take place here, and we will be waiting for an answer every time and preferably also for action to be taken after the elections in accordance with the promises made to our pensioners before the elections. I also believe, in fact, that many members of the government party have a bad conscience, because this is, however, a flagrant betrayal of promises, which is at stake here, especially in a case such as this, which has been found wrong for years, that this must not be the case, that pensioners are treated unfairly in terms of taxation. This is a choice of values, as has been said here. We can afford to lower the car tax, but we cannot afford to take care of our pensioners, for example, in an equal way. It was, of course, positive that Mr Heinonen, however, shouted the interlude. I thought it was important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u128	Madam President! The fact that the Minutes do not leave a false picture of this debate must be corrected by the fact that Mr Heinäluoma did give false recognition to his colleague, his neighbour, saying that there was no representative of the government party present. I was there in the hall. Of course, it would have been a gentlemanly thing to say. And let us also put in the Minutes the fact that when we talk about the taxation of pensioners, Mr Heinäluoma forgot to tell us that there is no SDP President Rinne here either when we talk about such a big issue. And yet there are no more than four Members of Parliament present for the Social Democrats either. When this is a big deal, then the real picture remains that not all the Social Democrats are here either. I myself was a little surprised that Mr Lindtman, who has criticised the government for failing to prepare its proposals, said in his presentation that the figures for this initiative will be revised later. In other words, have we now fallen victim to the fact that this initiative has been taken in a bit of a flimsy way? And I personally look forward to that preparation also being made by the largest opposition party to be able to count on those figures in this debate. That would make the debate easier, and that is why we will certainly come back to this when, at some point, the social democrats have completed their own alternative budget, which is so much to be expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u129	Mr President! Mr Heinonen's speech was interesting. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u136	Mr President! Congressman Heinonen expressed regret at the fact that he was not seen in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u139	Madam President! I think it was now that Mr Heinonen was very careful to get the wrong idea. I would like to make a very strong statement in the Minutes: There are no mistakes in this bill. In this bill, if you read this, there is no mistake at all. I can still read the very essence of this legislative initiative. Here we propose a reduction in municipal tax's pension income as a percentage of 51 and a coefficient of 1.43. We propose a reduction in the pension income of central government taxation as a percentage of 44 and a coefficient of 3.9. That's exactly what I'm talking about. As far as the issue of which Mr Heinonen misunderstood is concerned, I said that we would reserve an opportunity to clarify the exact model in the presentation of the alternative budget, because the situation is that when we received this government's budget proposal it was a good month ago. In that time we have already done this, and this is very much in line with the principle which will remain in the alternative budget. But of course, when the last revenue and expenditure are brought together, that is why, in the alternative budget, we reserve the opportunity to be more precise. And the committee has the opportunity to clarify this when this proposal on income tax is dealt with. And then I say to Mr Heinos that it is strange now that the government has the right to review its own legislative proposals, as has happened and as it seems to be happening in this grey economy, for example, that the opposition would not have it when this is in committee. However, we are not withdrawing this, as fortunately happened with this amnesty of tax refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u142	Madam President! Yes, my wish is the same as that of the chairman of the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mr Lindtman, that we would like the vote to take place. But I believe that even more than we would like, the Finnish pensioners would like to see the assembly explain their position, respond to their words and correct this dwindling, this serious drainage, which is what this is now. Having followed history in recent years and this debate, it is only once and for all that this has been perceived as a very unfair thing for pensioners in general, when in time the levels of taxation have not been uniform. This has always been discussed for a long time, and perhaps that is why this Chamber is quite empty, because many Members recognise this problem and find it very embarrassing, now that this tax gap is being torn open again with this flagrant runaway.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u145	Mr President! Now that we have gathered here for the Parliament and Parliament is exercising the highest decision-making power in this country and that it is part of good parliamentaryism that what is said in this Chamber is also justified, as Mr Viitanen said just now, that this government proposal is opening up this tax gap for the pensioner and the employee, so Mr Heinonen shouted the interlocutory cry, which I assume has been marked in the Minutes, as is the case, and he shouted, referring to this tax gap 'it started at the time of the Ringe'. So now that we will probably be reading tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in the parliamentary minutes that Mr Heinonen said that this tearing up of the tax gap between the pensioner and the wage earner started during the Rinne period, I would now like to see this justified, because that is not the case. In fact, when President Rinne entered the government, he made the first budget conditional on internal government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u148	That is how it is, Mr President, that, having been called upon here a few times today to make these interim declarations, I say the same thing, that I specifically hope that this issue will be justified, because it was quite spectacularly public in the autumn, last autumn, when President Rinne wanted and asked as a threshold that the taxation of pensioners should be reduced, this extra — extra — reduction in the taxation of pensioners must be done, and indeed the chairman of the party, Mr Rinne, fought for this issue for a long time. It was a threshold issue for him, and as a result of its struggle, this extra tax deduction for pensioners came, which improved the position of pensioners in relation to wage earners. This is what happened. And then, as Mr Lindtman has just said, it was the House that opposed this and would not have wanted it to happen, but it was under the leadership of President Rinte that this happened. So perhaps by means of this interlude, Heinonen meant that during the time of the Ring, the taxation of pensioners began, as it were, to be reduced in relation to the employee in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u151	Madam President! Now it is a little bit like it was in this Chamber a few days ago when this famous monarchy was introduced to this party law by Lex Soini. And when I asked the rapporteur minister direct questions, he did not answer. Well, of course, the individual representative is in a completely different position, especially when the bill is asked in relation to the minister presenting the bill, but there is a certain similarity here. At that time, at the end of that debate, I said that this silence of the Minister and this irresistibility can all draw their own conclusions. Now, in the same spirit, I would like to ask whether it is the case that we can now draw our own conclusions from this silence by Mr Heinonen. I could draw the conclusion that the representative The haystack is right about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u154	Mr President! I think he was former Prime Minister Katainen, Minister of Finance, when the tax gap between pensioners and workers was beginning to close. It was, of course, an important issue for us at the time of the meeting in that economic situation, and I am sure that will continue to be the case for the assembly. It is true that there are a lot of bad savings that are not nice to defend, but the fact is that stable state finances, balanced state finances, are ultimately the best protection for every pensioner, as is the best protection for all of us, that state finances are balanced. Of course, improvements are also being made to the situation of pensioners, for example, the guarantee pension is being increased, it is certainly very important and welcome for many, but at the same time, of course, the measures that have been listed here. I am not going to deny them, there are, as there are many of them for families with children, there are a lot of unpleasant decisions that must be made now. The debt has continued in Finland for so long that I think we have seven lean years not after seven fat years, but it seems that there are another seven drier years ahead, and that is why we now have to put the economy in order. I personally appreciate the parties that are now taking responsibility and putting this economy in order. I believe that, in the same way that those who took responsibility in the '90s will at some point be commended for finally taking action and taking action. Mr Heinäluomaa was still very praised, but he did not seem to be able to stay for the whole time in this debate about pensioners, but left this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u155	Madam President! Now we get to the point: When Heinonen finally starts to talk, these value choices became evident. Money can be found for a discount on car tax, money can be found for many other things, but money can never be found when you have to take care of pensioners, unemployed people, people on low incomes. Then the money will always run out, and every time it is the same explanation that we have to make responsible policies and now we have to save and this is what it is and that is what it is. And you will always forget, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it is always a question of value choices. Revenues can be collected with a different emphasis on taxation, we can place more emphasis on some solutions than others. You can always make value choices. And one of the values of the SDP, for example, is to do what was said in the run-up to the elections: we do not cut pensioners for example. Why did you not tell us before the elections when it comes to asking what you are going to do, that the state finances are being managed and, in its name, we will, for example, discriminate against the taxation of pensioners in relation to employees? That would have been fair. That's the rules of fair play. There was talk of election candy with a price of 250 euros, and I don't think it's a very nice situation. And I believe, just as it was said here earlier, that, by February at the latest, quite a few pensioners will be wondering and asking this question. And that is why it would have been fair before the elections to say that, in our view, this is how these choices of values go. The money always runs out when it comes to pensioners. And now, Mr Heinonen, I hope that, once you have started to speak, you will speak up again on what the majority will think in the end. Your position was clear: you said that this was a problem and I am sure that it will continue to be. But I interpret from this that Mr Heinonen is not going to fix this. In other words, this position was made clear in this speech, but perhaps you could still verify it for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u156	Madam President! Mr Heinonen said that when the debt of the central government goes on and on, this is why we have to make these unfortunate savings on pensioners, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u159	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u160	Madam President! On Tuesday, there was a government proposal to amend the party law. I believe that the government proposal takes steps in the right direction. In particular, the proposed changes to party support represent a fundamental effort to improve the operating conditions of non-Parliamentary and entirely new parties. However, the details of the law need a lot of work, and that is why I have drawn up this parallel initiative. Practical improvements to the activities of parties outside the Parliament threaten to be limited in the Government's proposal. A high 2% voting threshold would be proposed as a condition for party support. On average, it will be easier for parties to obtain even a representative of parliament with this number of votes and thus have the right to party support than with the new rule party support. For example, the Finns Party and the Greens have in time received representatives of parliament with 1 and 1.5 per cent of votes cast in various elections. In my initiative, therefore, I propose a threshold of 0.5% of the votes. It would be calculated as a single seat in the parliamentary elections. As a result of our electoral method, that number of votes is not always, or even generally, sufficient to obtain a seat. Of course, the border could be smaller. However, the 0.5% threshold would be technically easy to implement quickly and would be easy to justify. But let us say in comparison: a large number of elected representatives were in favour of lowering the voting threshold much more vigorously, even with 5,000 votes. Such representatives can be found both in the government and in the opposition, in five different parties. Mr President! Our support system was built almost 50 years ago. Even then, the draftsmen suggested that party support should be linked specifically to the number of votes cast. However, the government at that time disagreed. It considered that there was no reason at all to support very small parties whose impact on national life would be limited due to the lack of support. So I saw the government then 50 years ago. In today's world, however, there is considerable information available to citizens about the support and ability of different parties to influence. We need not fear that a very large number of voters will by accident vote for a party whose activities are not channelled into political influence. More reason to fear the opposite: When the resources of a party appear small and it does not even receive party support, it is not believed that it will easily enter the parliament. Many citizens are then afraid to vote for the party closest to their values and views. Originally, the restriction of party support for only parliamentary parties would have been more generally intended to prevent excessive fragmentation of the party field. It has been thought that decision-making may even be paralysed if the party field is divided into dozens of contentious parties lacking the ability to cooperate and compromise. However, other factors may have an impact on excessive fragmentation. Britain, for example, has very low party support. Yet there have been dozens of Communist parties in the country, and there are examples such as the Fancy Dress Party, Church of the Militant Elvis Party and Citizens for Undead Rights and Equality. In other words, a well-established party field consisting of rather large parties may also end up in a state where decision-making is paralysed. There is no need to apply for examples in Finland far from history. These factors therefore do not alone determine whether Parliament's decision-making will be fragmented. Instead of the size of the parties, we decision-makers should take care of the political culture more generally, of decision-making and of the ability to debate. Mr President! There is another problem with the government proposal, namely the amount of aid. In many countries there is a foundation for party support, which is distributed to all parties and guarantees equal opportunities for party activity. In addition, a proportional share will be paid which will reward the success of the election. Such a model can support equality of opportunity between parties. The government's proposal represents the opposite method of division. In relative terms, the support of parties outside the Parliament is even lower than that of parliamentary parties. In principle, 2% of the votes are imputed to up to four MPs. However, the extra-parliamentary party would receive this number of votes by exceeding only one third of the support received by a single MP. The imbalance is more than ten times that. Mr President! A fairer party support would therefore require parties to push out a very small part of their current support pool, but there is no need to compromise further. However, the new entrants can achieve a great deal with this small amount. Competition would feed lively political activity in general and would also healthyly challenge established parties. I believe that we from the well-established parties would also be able to face this challenge and be able to strengthen it. Mr President! Can I go back a little over five minutes? Thank you. — Ultimately, the success of society as a whole depends on its capacity for renewal, which is supported by the most diverse and, if necessary, renewed party field. The most recent of the present parliamentary parties are the Christian Democrats from the 70s, the predecessor of the Finns from the end of the 60s and the Greens from the 80s. Since the 1960s, the world has changed quite a lot and, for example, new, significant organisations, companies, research institutes, many others have come and gone. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why should the party field be so different? Why would the party field be different? I hope that the committee will have the wisdom to seek more equal opportunities for participation in the parties. The financial burden on the present parliamentary parties is non-existent, but the possibility of increasing democracy and maintaining civil dialogue is essential. The direction proposed by the government is the right one, but we need bolder steps. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u161	The 8th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 6 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u162	The 9th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 6 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-05-ps-59.u163	The 10th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 6 November 2015.
