ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this challenging acoustics in our temporary Chamber, I would ask everyone to take it into account and focus on that honourable and stable behaviour of the Member of Parliament and to avoid unnecessary debate. The fine, fitting interludes are the salt of this hall debate, but there is no constant conversation with the person next to or behind or in front of us. I would ask everyone to take this into account in today's debate. Continue the discussion of the communication on the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, suspended at the plenary session on 2 June 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u2	Mr President! What is a good government base? It is not easy to find a simple answer to this question. This current government programme is the fifth in my parliamentary career. Every previous programme has reflected the spirit of time, the political and the economic situation. Each government, in accordance with its own principles, has sought to resolve the tasks assigned to it, to distribute the money available as rightly and fairly as possible. The same is true of taxation. The success of governments will be measured through the achievement of the objectives. Generally speaking, one indicator is economic growth and employment, so it is now. This government is facing a major challenge in terms of employment and exports. When the previous government failed to implement many of its key objectives, it is more difficult for this government to do so than normal. The fate of Finland is a success in breaking off debt and improving employment. At the same time, there is a social and bureaucratic reform on the table and a reform of a number of administrative sectors. This government must be swift and determined in the implementation of the decisions taken. Time is passing surprisingly quickly, and even the fruits of major reforms will have to be picked up for a long time. For the unemployed, every day without work is long, especially if the time is prolonged for months or years. While each of us can do much for our own lives by being active and developing ourselves, often when faced with the unemployment problem, our own means are not sufficient. Unemployment has affected our former industrial regions, which has caused migration to growth centres. This phenomenon has, on the other hand, brought its own problems, as reflected in the availability and prices of housing, as well as in the clotting of the housing trade in emptying localities and the reduction in services in the regions. My wish for this government is that it should take better care of developing the vitality of the whole country. In economic terms, it is a very worthy thing. In this direction, there seems to be a great deal of will in the road network and investment in infrastructure. Mr President! At the moment, our biggest problem in our country is where there are entrepreneurs who give jobs to hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in our country. This is the only way Finland will rise and we will be able to talk about a possible division or closing the sustainability gap. We can no longer make it difficult to find employment, because, in addition to wages, compulsory costs currently represent more than 70% of wages. The social pact should be welcomed by all parties, and whether, for example, it is repugnant to give up the benefits achieved, is the key to a major solution. Entrepreneurs who value their employees take care of the employee’s well-being. It's a good investment for the future. There are a lot of good things in the Government Programme that our representatives spoke about yesterday and that I am not going to repeat now. There's a lot of new development, but there's also some nasty things we'll probably be discussing here. In every situation, whoever is in the government, we must look after the quiet ones in the country and those who have built us a good breeding ground. By this I mean, for example, small-time pensioners with high sickness costs and those whose housing costs are rising significantly, or the thousands of families with children in our country who are already in a very difficult situation. But I believe that the government will take these into account, as long as the details are taken into account in the autumn. Now we have to give the government some peace to start work. Many plans would be reprehensible in a different economic situation, but now action must be taken. It's always better to expect after bad times, that's what we're aiming for. The misery is not eternal, and this can be overcome by cooperation between the whole population and the various stakeholders. We must have entrepreneurial and voluntary spirit. But when better times come, each participant must receive his or her own reward. That's what we have to hold onto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u3	Madam President! Finland's current and trade balances have been moving in the wrong direction for 15 years. Our competitiveness has deteriorated and the engine of our economy, the export industry, has suffered serious damage. We put too much and too long into our two top productivity developments, electronics and paper. The world changed its consumption habits, and it is these areas that are almost destroyed. We have lived under stable currency conditions without learning the actual incomes of living. No matter what the whole, solutions have been made that have led to too expensive Finnish work and incompetence. In good weather, the total income of the national product has not been used to shorten the previous debt more quickly, but rather to increase the future load. There has been an incompetence in taking care of the competitiveness of the future. Mr President! The Government Programme under discussion is a serious attempt to overcome the misery that has been going on for seven years and to save Finland’s future with Finnish work and diligence. Now the whole thing has been understood. It is not a question of who gets and receives from, but of raising a cake, i.e. which are the best medicines for growth. It is recognised that only productive companies will grow, invest and employ more, that the growth of export companies is the only way to end indebtedness and overcome the sustainability gap and that only growth will enable future services. A shampoo has finally been found: Finnish work. Mr President! The country's economy is in a serious state, which is also reflected in the programme. Things are spoken of in their true names, and the desire to make decisions is marked. The challenging points are not pushed aside. The Government’s situation picture and solutions are shared: strengthening employment and competitiveness, modernising knowledge and education, promoting well-being and health, accelerating the bioeconomy and clean solutions, and modernising practices through the exploitation of digitalisation, experimentation and dismantling of standards. The Government Programme contains strong measures to reverse Finland’s direction. Hard drugs are drugs, but they're essential. Competitiveness must be found, and public finances must be put in order. Debt must be broken, but at the same time we must remain concerned not only with economic growth but also with the weakest. Over-indebted Finland is not in a position to do this. The concrete aim of the solutions is, among other things, to make work and work more profitable in the future, not to increase the overall tax rate and to reduce the tax burden on both work and enterprise. The functioning of the labour market and free competition will be significantly promoted. The Government will also invest EUR 1.6 billion in growth, of which EUR 600 million will be spent on infrastructure. Structural reforms are expected for the public sector, which will improve productivity by around EUR 3 billion. There is indeed pressure for improvements, not only in terms of service providers but also in terms of costs. Expenditure will be cut to a sustainable level. The opposition has recognised the seriousness of the situation and also the scale of the situation, but it has not been possible to find alternative ways to stop living at the expense of future generations from staring at individual savings decisions. Tax increases have only been made in general terms. Whose taxes? How much? Mr President! The Government Programme includes key projects and good records, such as an hour of physical activity per day, environmentally friendly tax solutions and improving the state of informal care. So let's invest in the future. Of course, there's something to fix. Cutbacks in education and especially in research and development may jeopardise and slow economic growth. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u4	Mr President! So much from yesterday that I think there were three things that went up over the others. This escalating division between society and the citizens, to which this government programme is leading, has been strongly highlighted, and that is what the representative of the centre of our appreciation, Mr Kääriäinen, has also drawn attention to. We hope that the government will take this matter seriously now, that those with good income must also be involved in these efforts. It is not right for unemployed people, pensioners, elderly people and families with children to be paid. Of these pensioners, it is now necessary to state that the Finns of Finland promised to pursue the affairs of pensioners. With your left hand, Soini will give you 30 million in the form of a guarantee pension, while at the same time you will take 125 million euros with your right hand from the housing allowance for pensioners. Do you, Minister Soini, know that in comparison with the OECD, as poor pensioners living alone as Finland has not been found in the whole of Western Europe? According to the latest information from Suomen Asiakastieto Oy, the number of people aged 65 or over with payment problems has risen by 14 per cent over the previous year, and you make this situation significantly worse by reducing the housing allowance for pensioners by up to EUR 100 per month. That's what's obscene. Well, yesterday we went through these betrayed promises. It is extremely worrying from a democratic point of view. I'm not going through this educational promise anymore, I'm just going to bring it back to mind. And the third thing that needs to be brought up now is this blackmail screw loaded into the government program. The whole load is piled on the back of the employees, and the rest of them get away with it. I'll take one example now of that threat. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how many people have been on rotation since it was set up? Some of you know that's very close to me. In due course, I have collected over 100 names for the bill, shepherded it into the government program. Now the question is: how many people have been on rotation leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u7	Mr President! I shall now concentrate solely on this matter of rotation leave for Mr Gustafsson. First of all, it has been recorded in such a way that it is changed to a reason or that it is changed to the times when it is entitled to a job alternation leave. Of course, if this social agreement does not come into being and if we have to take tougher action, then it has been recorded that it will be abolished. If we look at the international situation, then Sweden has abolished such a system, this is only valid in the Netherlands on a reason-based basis, which means that we are now going into that system. Changes have been made elsewhere for economic reasons, and that is what we are now facing. Then if we look at Scrooge Uusitalo’s research, which describes everyone — we’ve gone through every single person who has been on alternation leave — it shows that people who have been on alternation leave have probably helped some individuals to cope, but the overall picture is that their careers have been shorter than those who have never been on rotation leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u8	Madam Speaker! Prime Minister, you have talked a lot about a new political culture and the need to restore public confidence in politics. Last month you said that public confidence in politics is under test. Before the elections, you promised the people a soft package, the people voted for you, and now you have decided to make a tough package with cuts that divide the people in two. Before the election, you promised that everyone would be able to participate in these efforts. Yesterday you admitted that the good people have been excluded from these economic activities. Prime Minister, how do you assess yourself? Has your actions increased confidence in politics? What is the new political culture you spoke about before the elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u9	Madam President! Mr Satonen, chairman of the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party yesterday in this Chamber, said that there was a choice of values when the government now invests in care and well-being. However, customer charges for long-term institutional care, service housing, home-based services and other social and health care services are now being increased. Savings of several hundred million euro will be sought. At the same time, there is a desire to loosen the human resources of elderly services, i.e. to offer fewer people to care for people. And while pensions are still being cut, how can elderly people pay for these services? Prime Minister, how do you justify this savings? Is that what Mr Satonen was talking about here yesterday? Do you not think that elderly people and people have earned proper care, decent life and valuable old age?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u10	Mr President! Representative for Satonen: I am well aware of the studies and the like on rotation leave. The fact is, however, that it is extremely difficult to measure all the benefits for the individual citizen and for the individual person, as I am also speaking as a person with scientific training. After all, many have made a systematic application for work-linked leave, some have taken care of family members, some even when children start school, some are studying, and then the one, perhaps the most important thing: Of the 240,000 people who have been able to do the right job, thousands have demonstrated their abilities and skills and have received a permanent job. The question is how we see a good society, and we, the Social Democrats, see it that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u11	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Gustafsson on the rotation leave. It is one of the last cuts we would like to take, and that is why, by chance, this is the last one. We are all able to influence the fact that these cuts need not be made to improve cost competitiveness by means of a social agreement so as to avoid such cuts. But from the point of view of this political confidence, which Mr Lindtman has referred to here, I wonder if it has any bearing on the fact that it was only five days when Mr Gustafsson's party was a finance minister's party and you cut billions in four years. Now, in this debate, no new savings came, is not good enough and is not good enough. This government, which has now been elected, gained a clear confidence from the citizens in the elections, will also have to carry out the cuts you have proposed for this year. We've got to get them done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u12	Mr President! The opposition will continue its worthy list of what they would be unwilling or unable to do if they themselves were government parties. I'll tell Gustafsson when you raise this old-age housing allowance: Yes, it's an unfortunate operation. It is, to some extent, an operation, but on the other hand, it is here that the housing allowance for the elderly is brought to the same level as for others. So this is sort of an equal measure. We would like to do it in such a way that we would increase the housing allowance for others, but when there is no money. You talk about 100 euros a month. This may be the case of a theoretical individual case, but in fact in most cases only a few euros per month is spoken of, which they lose, and the guarantee pension increases by more than 20 euros per month. To Mr Lindtman, the soft package — no. After the Ministry of Finance's assessment, we too said quite clearly at the mouth of President Soin quite clearly on several occasions that the need for adjustment has been reduced to EUR 6 billion and that it should be covered within six to seven years, just as the government is now going to do. You're just listing things you're not going to do, but you're not going to make that choice. Of course, we know the alternative from the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u13	Mr President! Representative Terho noted that the cut in the housing allowance for the elderly was to some extent a cut. No, it's not. It's an operation, not just a little surgery. Hopefully, at some point, the government will assess the way in which your actions will increase poverty and inequality. Already the poorest Finns include the elderly living alone in large cities. They have no alternative to living in the apartment in which they live. And when you take away their housing allowance, what happens? They are customers of municipal social services because they need a housing allowance for income support to pay the rent. In other words, you are increasing the dependency of citizens on income support and you are increasing municipal spending, thus increasing the pressure on municipalities to raise municipal taxes. And what kind of tax is a municipal tax by nature? It is a proportionally higher vaccination rate for low incomes than for high incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u14	President! Mr Terho, did you say to the voters before the election at the Tammela Market that we were going to cut off your subsidies, the pensioner? Before the election, did you say to the students that you were going to be cut off? Before the election, did you tell the families with children that your support was being reduced? Did you tell the old man that these service recommendations will be dropped and the quality of care will be reduced? I don't think you did. And now we come to the fundamental question of social justice: Why are the people now divided into two? Why are the Finns of Peru, contrary to all their election promises, in accepting this? Do you think it's right to put everything in the same boat, but only mountain counselors get life jackets? Is this right? Why don't the Finns of Peru say now that for a while, let's think again, let's correct the tax line so that the richest can also take part in these projects? Mr Kääriäinen wanted this already, and I really hope that the Finns of Finland will also answer the question as to whether it is right that the mountain counselor does not compromise but the people do compromise. Is it right for the people to compromise?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u15	By making responsible economic policies and adjusting 4 billion in one parliamentary term and 6 billion in 7 years, it will not be possible to make these cuts simply by smiling and sharing good for everyone. We told everyone it was going to be a tough time. We told everyone that I don't think anyone's gonna make it without surgery. And it has been quite clear to both the voters and the representatives of the opposition present that during this parliamentary term we have this sort of situation ahead of us. You are criticising this package, you are criticising the way it is being done, but you still do not say where you would take the money yourself. Where on earth would you take the money yourself if you had the chance? And when you say that the earth is divided in two, what on earth? We're all still in the same boat. That's why we're doing this. That's why we're trying to keep this boat afloat. And this is this age-old socialist rhetoric to talk about mountain counselors. We can cut the housing allowance for mountain counselors if you think you're gonna get a lot of money out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u16	Madam President! Mr Gustafsson, you and your fellow party champions are to tell us what is not to be saved and what is to be saved in error. But yesterday, when we tried to ask you what you were saving up for, you were referred to as your election program. Now I have to admit that I do not know your election programme very well, but when you know it better, tell us now where the 3 billion plus 1 billion, of which a small part is taxed, where the savings are taken from. Three billion. Put your savings on the table, and we'll compare the options. Then, Mr Gustafsson, you, like your chairman, said that this social agreement is a blackmail screw. Do you really think that if you cut off all the groups that you said — pensioners, students, the unemployed — it is too much to ask that those who have jobs should also take part in doing a little more work a week?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u17	Mr President! There have been calls for SDP savings lists and options for the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u18	Mr President! I will come back to this debate on rotation leave, because it was started here by Mr Gustafsson. When the rotation leave was set up, as Mr Gustafsson well knows here, the idea was that people can study, so that they can do better in their profession, or they can temporarily take care of their families. And now, if we go into a fault-based system, it is these two objectives that will be fulfilled. We also have a family carer's leave, which allows a person who, for example, needs to take care of his/her parents who need hospice care to get away from work and then to return to his/her place of employment. So we have these systems, and it is very important that they are maintained. But it has to be admitted honestly that many alternates who have benefited from this system in themselves would have been able to get a job anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u19	Mr President! Yesterday it became very clear that the most high-income groups do not participate in these so-called voluntary activities. This has been reduced by the Parliamentary Information Service, and the main benefits of tax solutions are those who receive a salary at the parliamentary level. Is it true that wage levels at MP level should reduce taxation? In other words, income differences will increase according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service. This is socially unfair, but it is also absurd from an economic point of view. Just as President Soini said in his election campaign, it is not right, it does not make sense to cut the lowest incomes, but it is also visible in the national economy as a whole. Both the IMF and the Organisation of Industrialized Countries (OECD) have demonstrated in their own studies that growth in income differentials has a negative impact on economic growth. However, are we not looking for better employment and growth in the national economy? My question now is, Prime Minister Sipilä: the previous government for each decision
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u20	Mr President! There are a couple of encouraging things about this economic discipline, starting with the fact that the responsible parties now share a common picture of this economy, and that picture of the situation is quite real. If it had been the same four years ago, we would not be on such long operating lists now. Another good thing is that there is a government sitting over there, which also has the courage to take up these issues, and also that this government programme is strategic this time, and it has already, in the past, been told what is going to be cut off. Last season, too, this was quite different. Well-being is one of our key values. Don't you think we're not cutting out child supplements, we're in favour of a basic income experiment, we want to take services home and we want to support the better performance of family carers? These are our values, but we would also like to hear from you what your values are. Not more cutting, I guess.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u21	Madam President! Yes, there is a clear difference in values between government parties and opposition parties. True, the values of the government parties are very high. They don't want to hear it. You do not see that the effects of equality on your economy are increasing income disparities in this country. It has been irrefutablely proved by the Ministry of Finance itself, among other things. The impact on equality is also illustrated by your attitude towards equality between women and men. You are not in the government programme to continue the equal pay programme and, despite good speeches before the elections, there is no line on how to distribute family leave more evenly between both parents, between mothers and fathers. This is cold politics. You have recorded in the government program that women and men are equal. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what you want to say with this entry. Do you want to say that women and men are so equal that nothing needs to be done to promote the development of equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u22	Madam President! There is talk of values here, and there is a great deal to be said about, among other things, the care of the elderly. You, the current opposition party, were in the previous period making major reductions in the places where the elderly were institutionalised. You made deductions, but you didn't give it a helping and nurturing hand. The present government will put this in order. We are allocating resources to that home care facility, which is exactly where you directed these elderly people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u23	Mr President! In my opinion, there is a lot of good in the government programme, especially as regards the labour market. We must recognise that the labour market has changed quite a bit, and then we must also recognise that we must do something. I am delighted to read about this participatory social security model, and you have also spoken about the basic income experiment, and we believe that these are very welcome projects that Finland needs. I really hope that the government will succeed, because this will support employment, will support precisely the flexibility that those who are disadvantaged in the labour market also need. This is good. These are good things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u24	Mr President! I know Mr Satose for eight years as a very competent member of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and I therefore wonder why he then resorts to half-truths in this rotation leave. One very important reason why rotation leave has been used has been that the person simply has not been able to work. He's been wanting to have a certain episode and get away from that working life. And what is better if a exhausted person gets rest and is replaced by another employee needed. Why do you want this opportunity removed? And, of course, a person who is already at the edge of exhaustion is at risk of a shorter career than others. But then to Prime Minister Sipilä: I noticed an interesting point here regarding Metsähallitus and your general economic policy and your desire to sell the state's strategic ownership. It is said here that the legislation of Metsähallitus will be changed to meet EU requirements. When there is a former and current Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, what is the violation of EU regulations in the current Forest Government Act? Do you want to sell, re-incorporate and then privatise the Metsähallitus?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u25	Madam President! It is certainly clear to all of us that the Finnish economy needs to be corrected, and we all have a lot to do. Surely, first of all, it would be wise to get growth moving and also in such a way that it would have an effect as quickly as possible. For example, Etla has said that in the short term this programme slows down growth. And that is why I am asking now: why have housing policy, for example, made the reductions that have been made because housing policy, specifically investing here in housing policy in the capital region, is rapidly increasing? Now special groups will be taken out of housing and right-of-occupancy housing for the elderly, disabled persons, will be reduced. In the short term, this growth would be available. Why have these deductions been made to this point?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u26	Mr President! The elderly and senior citizens have been very well taken into account in our government programme. Unfortunately, the opposition, as it should be, only raises those negative issues. An additional EUR 75 million will be invested in informal care — a place that is very well-founded in humane terms. Home care will be strengthened and new means will be sought. Isn't home the best place for a person? Or is that not the case with our opposition? In addition, our guarantee pension will be increased by EUR 30 million, and the big question is also how we take our positions in our seniors. Do they have the right to decide on their own services, or does an official decide on their behalf? Our new government assumes that every aged person has the right to make his own choices and we strengthen them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u27	Madam President! I would say to Mr Terho that, if I were you, I would not be particularly proud of the way in which you redeemed your support: with unwarranted promises. What happened to the $900 million car tax bill your party promised? Now the car tax was reduced to a cosmetic discount for those who can afford to buy a new car, but at the same time it is collected as a vehicle tax for those who need a car in rural areas, with low and medium income sufferers. What happened to your promise of 1000 euros in income duty-free? I can't find that kind of entry in this government program. On the contrary, you are cutting unemployment benefit, removing the zero-payment category from day care and cutting the housing allowance for pensioners. These force people into the livelihood hatch. And Minister Stubb, I welcome you to Lapland. Why? Because it's so cold, it's the first time you've had to put your hands in your own pocket.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u28	Madam President! Whenever macro-economic issues are targeted at micro-economic lending, this is nothing more than quacking. Any one of us will be able to reduce our own expenditure without affecting our own income, but every time the state goes to cut its own expenditure, it will also cut its own revenue. You do understand that this is where the purchasing power of the employee is immediately reduced? Unemployment costs are rising. It is quite clear that, in a situation of this kind, when a country receives a loan even at a minus interest rate and could make those investments, including EUR 1.6 billion, was an extremely good thing, that is right. It is worth taking the debt if it can be allocated to projects which in any case have to be carried out at a later stage. That makes sense, but the EUR 1.6 billion will not be enough if the right-hand cuts of EUR 4 billion and the conditional cuts of EUR 1.5 billion will not be enough. Do you understand that the state is neither a household nor a company and cannot be compared?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Terho here quite rightly defended a responsible economic policy, which is quite right. But the problem in this situation is that, at the moment, this responsibility is not shared equally among the various groups of people. When we have to shoulder responsibility as a nation as a whole, this responsibility should be fairly divided. You have also said here that you have not wanted to make electoral promises and have been cautious — and so have I — but, unfortunately, quite a few of your fellow candidates over there in the constituencies have indeed made electoral promises that were made by your party chairman, the current Minister, Mr Soini, who said in many interviews that those who earn less than EUR 1000 will not come, should not and must not be cut. In what way do you respond, Mr. Sampo Terho, to this, as your party chairman, could say, accelerate the process of speeding up false electoral promises?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u30	Madam Speaker! This government programme is a very good whole in which spending adjustment is only one part. Structural reforms are the most important factor in preparing for increased efficiency and productivity, and the third is increasing cost-effectiveness and productivity. It is quite incomprehensible that, on behalf of the SDP and the Left Alliance, we are opposed to this social agreement. It is a crucial factor for Finland's future that a social agreement should be reached which will improve our competitiveness and, in particular, the export market. We gain export income and are able to maintain this welfare society. It would be in the interests of Finland as a whole to support this social agreement under the leadership of the Prime Minister. You would give public support and use your own channels to reach an agreement during the summer. It would benefit all taxpayers but, above all, children and grandchildren in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u31	Mr President! When it comes to agreement, it means that the parties negotiate and agree between themselves, but if one is told that you are such a interlocutor and in interaction we determine how to deal with this matter, it is not a social agreement. It is only for that reason that, if this 100-hour extension of working time is achieved, it means that 115,000 less person-years are needed in working life. This means an income transfer of 4.5 billion to employers who are not required to have any kind of instruments in this model of social agreement. It would have been reasonable even to say at the same time that, if revenue is transferred, it must be allocated to domestic investment — but nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u32	Madam President! With reference to the previous speaker, I must say that I know the previous speaker as a very good industrial person, but the amount of work or work is not constant, but more work means more work. We cannot think that it will mean more than 100,000 jobs if we increase the number of hours worked. There is no such economic reality anywhere in the world, at least I haven't found it yet. The second question relates to these SDP proposals on what will then be taken up. When you listen to them, you take all the more where there are conditions for growth that would create new jobs. It relates to the reduction of trade subsidies, the reduction of aid for innovation, the increase in capital tax rates, the tightening of taxes on non-listed companies, the tightening of progress. We had to create work in this country, not destroy the last bit of it. Now we are creating new growth, not destroying everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u33	Mr President! I'm sure we have a situation picture together. Finland has lost more than 100,000 jobs. The number of long-term unemployed has doubled, investments in Finland are clearly lower than depreciation, fewer entrepreneurs and companies are set up than they are leaving, which means that the situation picture is quite challenging. If we want to maintain the core of the welfare society, it will require more and more people to be able to earn a living from their work. There are good top projects in this government programme, which is why, with the support of all of us and hopefully the Finnish people, Juha Sipilä's Government is able to change the situation picture so that jobs are created here and that we can maintain the core of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u34	Madam President! Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors will reduce the tax burden on people on low and middle incomes, and it will be implemented by increasing the reduction in earnings from wages and salaries. For Mr Ojala-Niemelä's information: this is quite close to the tax-free revenue of one tonne that we talked about before the elections. It is not just the low-income people who are being cut, but rather the low-income workers who are being taxed. Mrs Nylander spoke well there when she had read the government programme that we were talking about this basic income experiment for those who are able to work, which is that there are solutions here which encourage people to accept work. This kind of bipartisanism, in my opinion, is, frankly, a intimidation of the citizens. Don't be guilty of anything like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u35	Mr President! Representative Jaskari here called for growth and growth creation. Is that why the government is now cutting off education, skills, innovation, all the future potential for growth, where a new industrial structure can then emerge, which can become new jobs and new growth? Is that why the government is now making significant cuts on this side? Mr Kalli, on the other hand, mentioned these key government projects and these investments, which were also referred to here by Mr Aalto. For my part, I would like to ask whether this is really not a growth package, but a patching package, because a significant part of these growth efforts are taken with one hand from somewhere else. With regard to transport projects, for example, it would seem strongly that this basic infrastructure is being financed from new projects, i.e. no more money, no more money for growth, no money for employment. Yes, the government is now cutting growth quite significantly. I hope that Mr Jaskari will also be able to come to this soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u36	After the next speaker, then the Prime Minister, but also Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u37	Madam President! Both Mr Vanhanen and Mr Terho have said that this is the economic policy that the people gave their confidence in in the elections. However, both the Finns and the Centre talked about savings of EUR 2 billion in the elections, not cuts of EUR 4.5 billion. In my view, the people gave their confidence to a more moderate savings line than the government is now proposing. We are now continuing on the path of tightening fiscal policy with very large, over-measured cuts, despite the fact that Finnish decision-makers have been warned that the continuation of tightening fiscal policy, cutting the purchasing power of low-income people, may harm our economic growth and employment. In my opinion, this gives a strange picture of the government's economic situation that this programme does not even assess what the impact of these economic policies might be in this low-situation situation in which Finland is currently in.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u38	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes. Then for ministers Stubb, Lindström and Grahn-Laasonen 2 minutes each.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u39	Madam President! First of all, Mr Andersson: this is all about public finances. In our own economic programme, we dealt with central government finances, and in addition with the municipality side 1 billion. That explains most of the difference you referred to. We have a difficult problem. At the same time, we must adapt, renew and then invest in making change. Yesterday, there were questions about values. From that vision, those values can be picked up. I believe that we have quite a consensus on that vision. I think we also have a great deal of agreement on the five main objectives that lead us towards vision. I have not heard much criticism either of the fact that the 26 key projects are not precisely the means that will lead us towards these objectives. There was a reasonable consensus on foreign and security policy, on EU policy, on internal security in this Chamber, both yesterday and today. Then we have this ten billion-dollar sustainability gap problem. I'm sure there's a consensus on the class of greatness. It seems that this time we are not discussing whether it is 5% or 2.5% of GDP. In these figures, as in all the other chapters we have presented, the municipal economy is also involved and the social fund is involved. Structural changes will cover 4 billion of this EUR 10 billion challenge, and there seems to be a great deal of consensus here in the Chamber: 3 billion in the form of a social welfare reform, which has been prepared together for a year, and 1 billion in the form of a review of the tasks and practices of municipalities. 2 billion in this is the share of growth and 4 billion since these painful savings. The model of the SDP is 3+1, we are now presenting here 4. So we have a billion-dollar dispute here whether a billion is made with tax increases or whether it is done with something else. The indices in almost all of us parties, including the SDP, were in the range of means. That's about a billion dollars. It's the biggest single operation, cutting the indexes. It seems that half of the training cuts were also recognised in this model of the SDP, which means that there is a dispute there about whether to cut half more or half less. Obviously, then, we have an agreement on the size of savings, but there is a dispute over their content. Well, then, how can this second half, or growth, be accomplished? We have a lot of entrepreneurship-enhancing measures here in the programme. We're looking for a competitive leap in the social contract. If a competitive jump is made, it will certainly create a new job. They asked if trust would be restored. Trust will be restored when the facts are acknowledged and action taken in accordance with it is not based on the wishes of the government, but on the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u40	Secretary Stubb, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u41	Madam President! Of course, from the point of view of state resources, we have three things that we have to constantly look at. The first is the one who has perhaps stirred up and, understandably, raised the most debate, namely expenditure savings. That is where we are in a situation where the savings are simply exacerbating. The adjustments at state and municipal level, at public level, 4 billion by 2019 are in fact more or less the same, slightly less than what the previous government did, and everyone knows how difficult those decisions are. The second package is tax policy, and it is a very neutral solution. Our aim is to invest in taxes that are so-called consumption or harmful taxes that bring us more, and then to reduce the tax burden on labour and on hard work. The third point that Mr Sipilä has just made is the contribution to growth, and their impact, of course, must be reduced. In other words, in three years' time, we are working towards a situation in which we would not have to make savings of this magnitude again in four years' time. That is why we are bringing in this growth package of 1.6 billion. Finally, why are we doing this? The main reason, of course, is that — and I think everyone agrees — we need to make a repair move to save Finland’s welfare society. And then there are different views about how we best do it. But we must admit that, in addition to this internal pressure, we also have two external pressures. One is rating agencies and the other is at this stage the European Commission. Why? Because our deficit is at risk of being too high, i.e. more than 3% next year, because our debt rule by 2018 will possibly be too high and because our structural balance is too high. That is why we have to make these adjustments, which unfortunately, by definition, hit all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u42	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nylander for his constructive approach to the government's management of labour policy. The labour market has changed. I myself am an example of the fact that when you don't make decisions in time, then the solution is that the job ends completely, really. We are in such a situation that we need new ways of facilitating the acceptance of its work, facilitating the provision of work, and that is what the government is now seeking. That is what is needed, and it also requires an industrial policy to have those jobs. I would like to thank the previous government for intervening in these incentive traps with this EUR 300 safeguard, and in this direction these solutions for working life must be taken. Yesterday I said that it must always be worthwhile to accept a job, that is precisely how it is. Then, Mr Gustafsson, Mr Viitanen's part, Mr Ojala-Niemelä: there has been a lot of talk here about what was promised before the elections. A lot of people have promised me a lot. Mr Viitanen, did the SDP tell you before the 2011 elections that you are going to cut earnings-related daily allowance, you are going to weaken the rotation leave? You didn't tell me. You had to make a very painful decision. We are facing exactly the same situation. It is not nice to introduce such things, certainly not, they are extremely heavy. But what's the alternative? You've told me your options today. The government has its own choice. Yes, we have a good common interest in this search. With regard to the social agreement, it is extremely important for Finland as a whole that the social agreement should be reached. I really hope and appeal to all parties not to go rowing now — and I am also putting this criticism on myself. We need everyone who has something to say about this at the same table. We need a negotiation and a solution for a social pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u43	Madam President! The SDP has strongly criticised these savings in education and said that education should no longer be cut. That's why it's a very strange light, and it's hard to hear if I heard correctly, that the SDP at the mouth of Chairman Antti Rinte is prepared to cut out secondary education more than the government does, Such greetings now to that field of education, however, that this government seeks to implement these secondary savings in such a way that this our secondary education develops. Among other things, there are no significant cuts in upper secondary school education at the moment, because during the last period of the previous Minister of Education there was very much discipline in upper secondary school education. Then the second point is this secondary vocational education. Yesterday we have published these annexes to the Government Programme negotiations, and there are already very well-structured guidelines on how to implement the reform of secondary vocational education and training in such a way that the quality of teaching and the working life capacity of our young people and adults are not compromised. There are already very far-reaching, very good guidelines for this too, so it is with a safe mind that we begin to develop our secondary education by this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u44	I think the gym wants to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u45	Madam President! I will return to this new political culture, which Mr Sipilä has spoken about. You also complained last season about the fact that politicians in the Chamber talk too much past each other. Yesterday I asked if you were prepared to give up this blackmail package, and we handed out the hand of cooperation. You didn't answer. I asked you a moment ago how you assessed your own activities, whether it has increased public confidence in politics or not. You didn't answer that either. If you do not want to answer these questions, at least answer it, Prime Minister Sipilä, how do you judge: these young people who are in this picture,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u46	Madam President! The opposition has strongly expressed the impression that the Finns of Peru have completely turned their backs on the low incomes Mr Viitanen: those mountain counselors will certainly be on this mission.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u47	Mr President! Of course, I think it is justified and understandable that this second-day debate is largely focused on commenting on these individual austerity decisions, of which I understand that none of the representatives of the Government Party from either the ministerial box or from this part of the Chamber have shirked or preferred to dodge responsibility. However, I am surprised at what may have been best reflected in that speech by Mrs Tuppurainen when you asked why, for example, there is no record of this already existing equal pay programme in the government programme. It seems to me, Mr President, that you have not understood that a new form of government has been set up in this country. We have carried out a strategic government programme with key projects. It's a change program. I find it disconcerting that no one from the opposition parties has taken a position on what Mr Vanhanen, the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, said yesterday, which is your assessment of this whole, this new way of leading. It would be useful if we also had a debate on this and the savings, of course, as part of this big change package.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u48	Mr President! When speeches have been made here about the division of the people, it must be said that the real division is between those who have jobs and those who are unemployed. The fact that those who are working today do not, in principle, have a great deal of distress has now been forgotten in this debate. That is why I would expect the opposition, especially on the left, to be particularly concerned about the measures that the government is really trying to take in this government programme to create new jobs, businesses here in Finland, and thus this division will be reduced. And this is what the government is trying to do. If you really are concerned about the division of the people, then I expect you to go strongly in support of this social pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u49	Mr President! Education cuts are fierce, as has been discussed many times in this Chamber, but it is good that the social democrats also report their own cuts. And although there is a bit of a mishearsing in this Chamber, it was very good that the Social Democrats had cut off vocational education much more than this government. Mr President! They also asked about housing construction. This government also wants to take a good leap into affordable housing construction, which is why we will, for example, return income limits to Ara rental dwellings so that these dwellings will be allocated to those who need them most in the future. And this is fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u50	Mr President! The SDP is ready to support the social pact, provided that this blackmail screw is removed, in which the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour, Lindström, intervened this weekend. So I am accustomed to the general experience of life that if someone experiences a threat, pressure, it leads to reactions. I think that what has happened here is that in a few days' time, especially in relation to this debate on the social pact, but also in relation to these cuts, people feel that they are now being threatened, under pressure, which leads to a reaction. I fear that this good attempt to have a common agreement — just as things have been built in this society for decades — will make a big mess. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, in the same way that my predecessor, Jutta Urplainen, asked that you consider not only these savings in spending, but also tax changes, which will also involve these well-off people in society. Please also think about this abolition of blackmail warrants, so that the SDP can start to support this from the point of view of the social pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u51	Mr President! In the previous speech by Mr Rinne, I think it was a good thing that these scales, as the Prime Minister has just analysed, came very close to the basic needs. So this difference between us isn't that big after all. It targets some of these private targets. As far as this social agreement is concerned, I think that the idea that there is blackmail here is also quite a lot to do with the way we deal with it here. I do not think this is about blackmail, when the government, very openly, in extreme honesty, tells us what kind of adjustment needs we are facing and what we could do for the entire national economy to avoid this worst image. What I would like the Social Democrats to contribute to would be to give a strong signal that we need a cost-competitive leap of around 5% that the social pact should get. I hope that you will support this objective, and by what means it will be achieved, it will be up to the organisations to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u52	Madam President! I would like to say that if you read that conditional cut list, there is no way in which you can imagine it in some way sympathetically ironing the employee side. There are 1.4 billion cuts, of which just over one billion are directed at ordinary families with children, unemployed people, pensioners, and therefore they target people who are experiencing this threat and pressure — ordinary Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u53	Mr President! It is now at the heart of the matter, and it concerns what this idea of a social pact is actually being driven into by the government, and how this policy of yours treats the various population groups. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who has been honest, who yesterday admitted that this package does not apply to the well-off — unlike the Minister of Finance today, it applies to everyone, and contrary to what the Finns said, it applies to everyone. You admitted yesterday that this does not apply to the well-off. Why doesn't it hurt? Because you do not want to tax those who have a lot of income and capital. Is it really the case that there are no more embryos in the centre group than Seppo Kääriäinen, who agreed to say that we cannot build a society on charity? We should re-examine taxation in the government package.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u54	Mr President! You do not answer the question of whether a social pact is needed and what its level of ambition is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u55	Mr President! I answer these many accusations about the line of the True Finns. As I said earlier, when we received the Ministry of Finance's assessment in the run-up to the elections, we acknowledged that it was right: the need for adjustment is EUR 6 billion. And it's gone into government negotiations to catch up. The Government Programme is always the result of compromises. I am not saying that this government programme is fully in line with the election programme of the Finns of Peru — it would be quite extraordinary if it did. But I'm saying there's a lot there that we're happy about too. This is where the taxes were raised. I am very happy to take it from this government programme, Annex 1, which we are very pleased with, although the merit, of course, belongs to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u58	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the SDP here in principle announced that you are prepared to discuss this social pact and perhaps deliver it. I would also like to hear what Mr Vanhanen asked you: are you prepared for this leap to improve competitiveness, a 5% jump, which is absolutely essential in this, that Finnish work can survive in international competition, that we can save Finnish jobs and get jobs for the unemployed. But I do not understand how we can talk about this as a blackmail screw when it is simply that, if this social pact does not come about, we will have less money in this economy. And if our credit rating is not to continue to fall and if we are to meet the criteria required by the European Commission, as the Minister of Finance has said here, then we must do the austerity measures and tax increases. Is it not a policy that is as transparent as possible, that has been told in advance what will have to be done if this agreement does not come about?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u59	Mr President! The SDP is ready to support such solutions that improve competitiveness and increase productivity. It must only be done in a way that does not blackmail the parties involved in the negotiations, in other words, it must create a balanced pressure to resolve matters and thus seek solutions. Now, this blackmail screw, built through these conditional cuts, is leading to the erosion of the confidence that was really built up during the last parliamentary term. Two overall income policy solutions, a pension solution in cooperation with building trust between the government and the social partners. It now seems that this debate on the social pact is undermining this confidence and is creating a situation in which this competitiveness of prices cannot be achieved due to the loss of confidence. I am still asking the Prime Minister to answer whether it would be possible to re-examine this taxation as a means of facilitating the situation of those unemployed, which could facilitate cuts in small pension income, housing subsidies, and remove these issues. Are you prepared to move on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u60	Mr President! Many representatives of the government have spoken of home care improvements here, and that is good, but you are doing it at the expense of institutional care. In institutional care, there are increasingly poor elderly people and fewer carers. Do you think this is the right direction? Representative Lauslahti raised the issue of freedom of choice here. Unfortunately, freedom of choice results from their choosing, who have the money and the ability and capacity to make choices. Freedom of choice leads to treatment being given in demand rather than in case of need.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u61	Mr President! The Greens will, of course, have an alternative budget, but in the preliminary replies to the Government Confessors, the Greens adjusted the budget to EUR 2 billion: we are investing in structural reforms, in social and employment-friendly reforms that believe in people and encourage people to work by courageously combining work and social protection and promoting small-scale entrepreneurship. We would not cut back on education or from the weaker people or from research that brings new exports, but we would look for an export leap with green technology and the green economy. We don't give rich people the way you do. For example, rich people can now buy a new car with government support. What is also grotesque is that when you cut 300 million from the world's poorest development cooperation, plus then you stop channelling emissions auction revenues into this, you are giving emissions auction revenues to industry to compensate for emissions trading, which is to say that you are further breaking down and making it difficult to achieve effective emissions trading. Emissions trading must be made operational in order for cleantech exports to have opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u62	Irade the Talman! Yesterday, there was a bit of an issue of equality, and Mrs Tuppurainen raised it very well here. Mr Eerola mentioned that it would show up in the programme and raised the question of the situation of fathers in the event of divorce. That is an important question, of course, but the issue of equality is much more than that, and I would perhaps give it a little more space in this strategic government programme — now it is there as a minor aside: it is said that men and women are equal. I would give it as much room as I would for a strategic question about the burning of horse manure, for example. The Government Programme mentions an effort to reach a 72% employment rate, and that is a good thing. But how do we get to this? If you compare the situation in Finland and Sweden, there is a big difference in employment in the situation of women aged between 30 and 40. Here is a direct reflection of how we share the burden of parenthood — or the blessing, if we want to say so. In order to get to a better situation, we should reform
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u63	Madam President! Yesterday in plenary I said that the parties in the left-wing opposition have lost their support since 2003. No one has yet denied that your economic line has been struck by the Finnish people for 12 years. The representative Aalto here attached the Greens to this left-wing opposition in his own speech. The Greens, who have been claimed to be the Parks Department of the Coalition Party, are the left-wing corner boys' section, a clear support section. Congressman Adlercreutz, I'm going to be a father in the summer. This issue of equality is very important, but it is also a question of equality between generations. Fortunately, this child of mine will not soon understand anything about politics, but neither my generation nor his generation will have to pay for the mistakes made by their fathers and mothers. This government cares about such intergenerational equality, and this future will not be sacrificed on the left or on the debt altar of the RKP.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u64	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u65	Madam President! This Growth Pact and its tightening screws. We have set out to build a balanced package in such a way that we do not have any secret lists which will then come up if we do not reach an agreement. We have wanted to build the whole situation openly. I admit that we could have done it in such a way that we would have been able to base the spending limits on 1.4 billion cuts and additional tax increases and then those savings and then we would have to tell them that they would have to be cancelled if we did not get into this competitive leap. I don't know if it would have been any worse. We can still spin it that way if it feels better. But really there is no such idea here, but we are going to tell you openly that we believe that such an agreement can be made — everyone knows the situation in Finland. It is aimed at a 5% competitiveness jump and, in addition to a moderate income policy solution, its impact on public finances is so great that we are able to give up almost one billion tax cuts and tax increases and savings. I think this is a fair and open game. We must make a credible programme for the whole parliamentary term, and that is why this has been done there for the second half of the parliamentary term. We have enough time to negotiate here. They have been conducted in a good spirit; I believe that this situation is very well understood and well understood. This part of the review is very difficult for me to understand. I had very long and careful negotiations at the beginning of the exploratory phase, I spent a week on it, and I know that there is such a thing as readiness. I'm gonna put myself on top of it. And I guarantee and swear that nothing like this blackmail here is; this is an open process that tells us what options we have available. But if we present further growth to what is now the forecast of both the Bank of Finland and the Ministry of Finance, then that is where we must have the facts on which it is based.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u66	Secretary Stubb, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u67	Madam President! Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, we have sought a solution in this social agreement that will be made together with all the parties involved, for the benefit of all Finns without confrontation. That is why we have endeavoured to have a clear timetable for this process, and that is why we have also sought extreme transparency. Why? The aim is, of course, to improve and increase the employment situation. What are the direct effects of this on the state economy? The first part of our calculations is simple. It is that EUR 1.5 billion would be the overall impact of the social pact. Adding a moderate wage settlement to this, about EUR 800 million, we are in 2.3 billion. In support of this, we are prepared to respond to the fall in income tax, which therefore affects all Finns, all income categories and, in particular, small and medium incomes, including pensioners. This gives an overall impact of around EUR 1.3 billion. At the end of the game, we are in such a serious economic situation in Finland that all the means must be put in place, and the only way forward is to do it together. The final responsibility for this House, for Parliament, is for these democratic decisions and social reforms to be achieved. Now the time for confrontation is over. We have to find a common tune.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u68	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u69	Madam President! I would like to start by saying, as Prime Minister Sipilä and Finance Minister Stubb have said with great credit in this social agreement, that there has been a slight feeling that there is no mention of such blackmail or intimidation anywhere else in this House, except on behalf of the opposition. Mr President! I would also like to come back here to a few speeches. Yesterday and today there have also been speeches from the Greens, which have been somewhat surprised by the fact that we are often used to the fact that the Greens represent sustainable development, but it seems that at least they do not represent sustainable economic management. They have proposed a strong debt-taking process and, by doing so, to make the economy fit and to eat on the purse and table of future generations, and I do not think that this is sustainable economic management for Finland. I hope that there will be genuine ways and options for us to really stop this debt and turn the economy around. And this government programme, this Sipilä, can say, provides a very good basis for changing Finland's direction. When I listen to yesterday and today's debate, I understand very well that it hurts and hurts all of us to put the economy in order. It is clear that there will be difficult solutions that affect the everyday lives of all Finns, but at the same time we know that the outcome would be even worse if we did not take these measures now. Even more so in the future would be the cuts we would be facing if we did not react now and take these austerity measures. We have to put Finland in order, and we have no time left to wait, and this is precisely the question that this government programme is about to answer. I would also like to emphasise that when we talk about creating jobs in Finland, this title of the Government Programme does say a lot, it is 'Finland of Solvements'. Finland will be raised to a new growth path through reforms, deregulation and entrepreneurship. In fact, this government programme is the most positive programme ever done for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u70	Madam President! It is a great pleasure to deal with this government programme for two reasons in particular: for the first time Finns are preparing it, and after several years of pause, we can say that a functioning government base has been established that can secure a better future for our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u73	Mr President! The money is simply out of money, and our lenders will not look favourably at Finland for long. I am surprised at Mr Aalto's comments, where he thought that we were going to go and get a loan and live as a loan. It can be said that it is very shortsighted thinking. Because low interest rates are quite misleading, whether it be our public sector or consumers. One day when the day comes when debts have to be paid and the money is not enough for payments, interest rates may be many times higher than that of a percentage, up to 6% or 8%. Let us take an example: If Finland's debt is 100 billion today and if we pay a little less than 2 billion interest today, it can be in the future if the lenders lose faith in Finland that we can talk about up to 6 to 8 billion and ask where the money would be taken from. That is why it is an excellent thing for the new government to go into debt, and it is, of course, a painful process. The real test will be carried out at the point when we are going to implement these good ideas of the government. Some aspects of the Government Programme. First of all, lightening, and we have more. We could say less: less standards, more freedom, less administration and bureaucracy, more better services and hands, fewer ministers and assistants, and hence more of an example, less budgeted euros, less debt, more digitalism, more experiments, more jobs in the future, more freedom for the citizens. Mr President! Senior citizens have also been very strongly raised in the Government Programme. The opposition has, without exception, raised only negative issues, at this point I will not raise them again. I will just take the points that are positive from the point of view of seniors. From the point of view of the Coalition Party, there are a number of things that we are promoting here, such as strengthening the purchasing power of pensioners. It will happen if the social pact comes into force. There will then also be two things for pensioners: (a) tax reductions of one billion will be allocated equally to both earned income and pension income, and (b) in addition, if a social contract is reached, there will be no index freezes. These two measures will ensure that the pensioner's euro also has more purchasing power. This was a matter of great importance to us in the assembly. In addition, the Coalition Party considers it very important that we also have family care and family care that will be developed. It is an excellent thing that EUR 75 million more will be put into informal care. It is a very high regard for all those close to them who care for their own neighbors. In addition, we enable senior citizens to decide their own affairs, more freedom of choice is being introduced. The left side pointed out that freedom of choice is only a matter for the rich. I'd say it's the opposite. Take the service voucher as an example. The service voucher also allows for more deprived access to private services. I would say that this is above all a measure of equality, whether a person is poor or rich. In addition, we have spent years trying to move forward with the removal of obstacles to our voluntary work. Finally, the Government Programme recognises that we will need more care in the future, and in that respect volunteering is reflected in several points in the Government Programme. I believe that this will enable us to make a warmer and caring society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u74	Mr President! In this way, we must give thanks to the Finns of Peru that, now that you have come to power, you halved our EU membership fees. Oh, I don't think you halved these betrayed promises, too. But, Mr President, the government must be commended for the ambitious objectives of the Government Programme to put our public finances in balance and Finland in order. At the target level, there is certainly a great deal of consensus in this Chamber. On the other hand, we are certainly divided on those means, and that is good, because we are in democracy and politics by weighing different options. Today, as always, politics is made on the basis of values, and the government's value base is well reflected in its programme. In the Government Programme, much of the balancing of the economy is being brought down on the young and the weaker. It is inconceivable that the low-income and middle-income groups should be forced to take part, but only those with good income should be asked to take part in the voluntary work. This participation could have been managed through taxation. If the government does not believe the opposition in this matter, believe even the Archbishop. In this communication debate, it is also appropriate to ask whether the government will achieve the objectives it has set with this programme of its own. In particular, the Government's objectives in terms of skills and education are totally incompatible with the savings in education and training. It is difficult to imagine that the level of knowledge and education of Finns can be raised and that Finland would be the top country in education, competence and modern learning, while the government cuts more than EUR 600 million from education. There is a long way to go from these measures to intergenerational justice. Last season there was a lot of talk about whether education has not already played its part in balancing public finances. And so did the government parties before the election, but what happened? We're still going to the training purse. In this fast-track debate there were comments on the SDP election programme that the second-degree structural reform wanted to seek savings there. Yes, and here too, the SDP differs from the government parties in the sense that we told this openly before the elections, unlike the government. I am sure that this ECU 600 million cut-off package from education could have been cut from somewhere else. I wonder why, for example, this amount could not have been taken from agricultural aid. Mr President! There has also been a lot of talk recently about the credibility of policy. In general, credibility is measured by the extent to which words correspond to deeds. Especially now is it good to look at the speeches that have been made before the elections and the actions that have now taken since the adoption of this government programme. Before the elections, when we think about it, the government parties really promised loudly that there would be no more cuts in education. Prime Minister Sipilä and Finance Minister Stubb correctly with pictures promised the students that education would not be cut off. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of Education and Culture, was still able to say that a value choice would be made and not cut out of education. Well, where do these promises appear? These promises have been so harshly deceived that such a turnaround has not been seen in Finnish politics for a long time. It would be fair to acknowledge this now, because otherwise the action will only look like a harsh fishing for votes. Prime Minister Sipilä has also said on many occasions when he asked about these training cuts that this mode of complaint should be removed, that in Finland it is in this kind of complaining mode that there is no need. Mr Sipilä, I do think that we should get rid of this active mode of electoral fraud in this country. It is also a good question to ask when the government says that these cuts in education are not about quality but about restructuring. Last season, when efforts were made to reform these educational structures, the present government parties, the opposition parties of that time, the centre and the Finns of Peru were fiercely opposed to them. The question now is either whether there is now a chance to carry out structural reforms. But, Mr President, with this government programme, Finland will not become a leader in education and learning. Finnish youth and the future deserve better than this miserable government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u75	Madam President! First of all, the representative It has to be said to Mr Räsänen that, of course, you should look at other aspects than education policy alone, such as, for example, the bioeconomy tip projects in agriculture and forestry and the issues that I have been driving here for four years in the previous parliamentary term. I want to thank the government for the program. It's not perfect, but it's good. It's a growth program, even though it contains cuts. But the cuts have a renewed goal. The well-being of our society must be strengthened, competitiveness must be strengthened. The Prime Minister said that it has been apparent for years that our public sector has not been a sufficient part of the productive potential of the industry. Authorisation procedures must, among other things, be more agile and more responsive to stakeholders. The results must be achieved through negotiation and agreement, not complaints, and this has been included in the programme. Tax policies create opportunities for companies to grow, so that the shortage of employers that have long plagued us can finally be alleviated. But since yesterday the chairman of the Greens, in his group speech, used the truth not only sparingly but even carelessly, I would like to record it in my own speech as well. The quote from Mr Niinistö's speech: 'Climate protection is subject to industrial competitiveness and there is no mention of climate science or the fight against global warming'. And now I don't know if the president is. Niinistö read this government programme or the magazines and builds straw dolls that are forged, namely, just here in Annex 6, page 15, says specifically about climate policy: "The government is working to achieve a comprehensive and ambitious international climate agreement to limit global warming to two degrees". Similarly, the "bioeconomy and clean solutions" section of the project raises many times projects that protect and support the climate. Similarly, the words 'climate policy' and 'climate' are mentioned many times. I believe that a special gem in this government programme is a breakthrough in the circular economy, which is now gaining momentum. It is the bioeconomy and the clean solution that create new growth sectors and the opportunity to increase domestic marketing and exports. The green, blue, yellow and red bioeconomy are the strength of the whole of Finland's regions and the growth sector of the future. The regions also have expertise and science and research. We also have the opportunity to use biodiversity for recreational purposes in a sustainable way, and I am pleased to have noticed or also recorded two good national park projects when Finland turns 100 in 2017. I understand that both the Porkkala National Park and the Hossa National Park, designed for the border with Kuusamo, have been prepared in good cooperation with various actors. That is the way it should be. Furthermore, infrastructure projects which are extremely relevant not only for the bioeconomy but also for exports and foreign trade are also being added. And let the blue bioeconomy grant its share. Our waters are still underexploited in domestic fish farming. In the bag the fish is currently traveling a little too long. Of course, the blue bioeconomy is not only fishing, it is also other water-related activities, but also aquaculture, which in Finland can be produced on the same sustainable basis as in neighbouring Sweden. We have exactly the same Baltic Sea, the same border rivers, but obviously a different authorisation procedure, which makes business more difficult. Finally, Madam President, a few words on the situation of internal security. There is justifiable comment here yesterday on the number of police officers in the ranks of both opposition and government parties. It should be given attention. It is precisely the task of the government that the police are visible where people are naturally moving, and that activity is not confined to those walls alone, but precisely to that operational capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u76	Madam President! Our financial situation is not encouraging. Exports don't pull. We're losing competitiveness. We have lived far too long beyond our means and we are seriously over-indebtedness. Our population is ageing and there is a strong concern about the exclusion of young people. There are more people leaving the world of work than there is going to be. According to estimates, the economy will grow clamorably over the next few years. Government expenditure must be measured accordingly. This has all been known for a long time. There's plenty to talk about, less to do. Things do not get better with self-pity or denial of facts, but work and entrepreneurship. For this reason, it is essential that the new government has adopted a stable policy for employment. Decisions and future measures are not easy for anyone, but they must be made. Our current employment rate is far from adequate. Indeed, one of the main objectives of the government term is to raise the employment rate to 72%. According to a rough estimate, the fall in unemployment by one percentage point will improve the budgetary balance by 0.3 percentage points relative to GDP. Every young person who is able to work, and especially every young person, must have access to employment. It is therefore essential that social protection be reformed in order to be inclusive and to encourage work. It is also important to promote employment opportunities for people with disabilities and people with partial capacity for work in the open labour market. Structural reforms must also finally be completed, at the heart of the reform of social security. One of the biggest competitive disadvantages in Finland is our high taxation. Finland’s tax rate is approaching the world’s peak. For competitiveness, the predictability of taxation is also important. The government has promised that during this starting government period the overall tax rate will not increase. Labour taxation will be reduced, so no one’s wage tax will be tightened. This will ensure the positive development of the purchasing power of employees and, at the same time, the strengthening of consumer demand in domestic businesses. The taxation of entrepreneurship will also be reduced and corporate tax will be considered competitive. For example, a payment-based VAT account for small enterprises will be introduced. All these very good and welcome news and reforms. Madam President! One of the issues that is important to me, where the bull has finally been caught properly by the horns, relates to excessive regulation and unnecessary standards. Overregulation is expensive both for public finances and ultimately for entrepreneurs who pay bills. It has been estimated that the administrative burden of regulation in Finland amounts to around 2% of GDP. Enriched with regulatory energy, Finland does not sufficiently respect human intelligence and the ability to make smart choices. Digitalization has made the trade unlimited and timeless. In 2015, it cannot be justified for the government to impose, as shops and hairdressers may be opened or closed accordingly. It is therefore very welcome and sensible to liberalise the opening hours of shops. Nor is it today that a small brewery has to sell its own products to sell its own. This is one example of our overholstering legislation on alcohol, which should also be dismantled. Fortunately, no sector is excluded from deregulation. The tourism and restaurant sector currently employs some 140,000 Finns and produces more than EUR 5 billion of tax revenue annually. This possibility should not be underestimated or underestimated. It would be possible to create up to tens of thousands of new jobs in this sector in the next few years if we were to dismantle unnecessary regulations that hinder competitiveness. A policy of prohibitional guardianship could be left in history books, and the idea of raising taxes on alcohol could also be buried in the same doctrine. Mr President! The Government is committed to ensuring that the municipalities are not given any new tasks and obligations during the parliamentary term. Instead, the tasks and obligations of municipalities will be reduced by EUR 1 billion by reducing the number of statutory tasks and obligations. The aim is therefore to clean up the regulations that are most harmful to citizens' everyday lives, business, investment, construction, healthy competition and voluntary activities. It is estimated that significant savings in public finances will be achieved through increased freedom of action, the exploitation of businesses and the third sector and the dismantling of standards. A welfare society is built with work, but it must not be done at the cost of other people's lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u77	Mr President! The government programme may not be an absolute good and super, but in this situation it is the best possible. The programme begins as follows: "The Government aims to bring Finland's economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure funding for public services and social security." In order to achieve this objective, the programme lists a number of ways and states that "the economy and employment can only be translated into growth through entrepreneurship and work". Of course, this can be criticised, but if there were no entrepreneurship and if there were no work to be done, there would be little growth. For its part, the Government will create work by investing EUR 1.6 billion in key projects and repair liabilities. This is a major effort, and it will already directly create work and entrepreneurship and also improve the conditions for entrepreneurship. The Government Programme also lists a number of ways to achieve economic and employment growth. These include the dismantling of red tape, the removal of unnecessary obstacles to enterprise, reforms to education and the use of information technology. These means are needed for economic growth to begin, continue — and perhaps continue in the coming decade. Mr President! A few words about these immediate adjustment measures, that is, the cuts. One of their goals is to stop living in debt. Listed adjustments will save EUR 4 billion per year by the end of the parliamentary term, and the cut list will leave little or no area of life untouched. In general, I could say that the list is quite balanced. None of the savings seem to cause a disaster for someone. Nevertheless, I would like to raise a few points which I am most critical of. For example, this change in the housing allowance for pensioners: it will certainly be rigorous for some and will not be compensated for by the changes planned for housing policy and rental housing. In this respect, it may be that the increase in income support expenditure will feed on the desired savings. On the other hand, it is possible, of course, to look at the entire housing support pot as a whole. Education savings: The government should be careful not to return to the 60s. As a child of a poor family, I have had to attend a high school in another place, and that certainly would not have been possible without good people. Local residents of the municipality of residence The Lions paid for my high school. It should be ensured that the poor also have access to education. The third little thing is the dietary allowance for celiacs. The authors of the program may not have been able to estimate that in celiac disease, neglecting a diet poses a serious health risk. In celiac disease, diet is comparable to that of a disabled person. The aid enables the disabled to live a normal, safe life. Of course, in the case of an individual, the loss is quite small and may not be the destruction of anyone in itself. The Government Programme is unlikely to be revised in this respect, but in the future the criteria for Kela's disability allowance should be corrected so that dietary care in coeliac disease is eligible for disability benefit. Mr President! I consider the creation of a regional and self-governing society to be a good and workable solution. Of course, up to now there would have been scope for so-called full social and health integration. It should only have been contracted with a number of different actors. This is just not what has been done. However, the Sote solution must only be understood as a frame within which the activity itself is built. If the construction of the work is left to be organised by each social group itself, I bet that the inequality of people will not be reduced. Therefore, when the actual process of social reform is started, there must also be a common framework for the content of the action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u78	Mr President! In his speech to the new government on Friday 29 May 2015, President Niinistö said the following: “You will hear much about what you should not do, less about what you should do instead, and not about where we would be if nothing were done.” Personally, I would add that the government parties will not hear much about what we do well. I would like to raise a number of issues relating to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice with regard to the Government Programme. First of all, the objectives of the Government Programme are explicitly stated that in Finland legal protection is effective and the penalties correspond to the general sense of justice. Over the last few years, we have received feedback from citizens on penalties against the sense of justice, particularly in the case of violent crimes and sexual crimes against children. The answer to this is the tightening of penalties and, in particular, the revision of the lower limit of the penalty scale. In such cases, the courts are obliged to comply with them and to impose penalties. Of course, effective legal protection involves the right of the offender to a fair trial and the right to an appropriate defence. In recent years, however, this nonsense has forgotten to secure and care for the status of the victim of crime. Fortunately, in the Government Programme, this has also been raised as an improvement. It is also a good thing that the amount of the daily penalty is increased from EUR 6 to EUR 12. It's been the same for so long that I can't remember the rest of the time. For years, the Court of Justice has been talking about a man of EUR 6 when it refers to a person who receives a minimum daily penalty on the basis of his income. In practice, therefore, this increase means that the fine really will feel better as a punishment in the future. I would like to take an example of this crime, which was regulated in Chapter 35 of the Penal Code, and which, for example, is condemned as a breach of a window in a commercial apartment. An average penalty of between 20 and 30 daily fines is imposed. As the minimum amount of the daily fine is now EUR 6 the total fine is between EUR 120 and EUR 150. We have a type of offence penalty, and according to the penal code it should be less than a fixed fine. The maximum amount of the fine is currently EUR 115, so it is not quite in line with that practice, as I pointed out in that example. The difference is between EUR 5 and EUR 35, although the penalty should be less severe. I also welcome the introduction of, for example, an unconditional prison sentence, so to speak, a period of one week, in order to make conditional imprisonment more effective. Now, especially young men, when they leave the court, they show a sign of victory when only the condition came when they did not even try it as punishment. There are a lot of other good entries there. As a personal lawyer, I personally welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice’s portfolio is for the Finns of Finland. I have also received good feedback from my colleagues in law. Minister Lindström is a firm and fair man with a sense of justice. This is a good place to start reforming the reforms that have been recorded. Mr President! I would like to say in particular to the members of the opposition that it could make history and look for good things in the work of the government parties and in the government programme. We must genuinely aim to have the well-being of Finland and Finns. Criticism is always good and takes things forward, but only if criticism is accompanied by a solution for doing things differently. Constructive alternative speeches in the opposition have now been heard quite little in the last few days. An example is Mrs Räsänen's speech yesterday, which I thought was good. Mr Arhinmäki, on the other hand, kept his speech to the contrary, since he was here when he spoke both as a prosecutor and a judge when he said that if we were in court, the election speeches of some government ministers and current acts would become convicted crimes. If I don't misremember, he mentioned fraud and extortion. As a lawyer and former legal counsel, I would advise Arhinmäki that he should focus on his own words so that he does not become guilty of defamation, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u79	Mr President! I believe that every person in this Chamber has a clear picture of the situation in the economy and, if not, I am really concerned about it. I support the guidelines of the Government Programme, and I dare to express my firm support at this stage for the Government's future efforts to generate growth and new jobs and thus to secure the financing of welfare services. This is precisely why reforms are being made to increase labour supply and reduce public spending to a sustainable level. We certainly cannot eat food in advance for future generations. During yesterday’s day, the various parts of the government program have already been chewed in both good and bad — naturally depends on the speaker. I would like to mention here only one aspect: the exploitation of pharmaceutical research with high growth potential. According to statistics, pharmaceutical studies are unfortunately moving away from Finland. It is time to acknowledge and acknowledge the facts. High-quality and high-income pharmaceutical research can bring us export euros. Parliament's Committee on Finance has been calling for the sustainable safeguarding of university-level research funding for the past two parliamentary years. The committee has prevented cuts in resources, but there is a need for a long-term commitment to medical clinical and basic research. The growth strategy for health research and innovation adopted by the previous government is a good start, which requires determined implementation to support it. Fortunately, the fall in research does not tell the whole truth. The focus has shifted to more difficult studies and the conditions for translating research volumes into growth are still in place. Ministers Rehula and Mäntylä, former members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, are well aware that the advantage of research in university hospitals is that new knowledge of the mechanisms and effectiveness of medicines enables the rapid introduction of new treatment practices and medicines. In fact, over the last 11 years we have enjoyed up to 700 different developmental leaps in the diagnosis or treatment of diseases. When research is impressive, there will also be total savings both in euros and in humane terms. This country also urgently needs new investments. The pharmaceutical industry invests EUR 30 billion in research and product development in Europe. In Finland, too, we have the opportunity to take our share of this. The Government Programme rightly states that it will strengthen the effectiveness of research results and cooperation between universities and industry in order to commercialise innovations. One possibility to improve the state of pharmaceutical research and attract investments would be to launch an experiment to strengthen cooperation between pharmaceutical companies and university actors in Finland. At the same time, efforts should be made to produce and commercialise new university findings in accordance with the Government Programme. We already have many examples of success, such as the research breakthrough of Pfizer and HYKS Cancer Centre in Helsinki, cooperation between Turku Bayer and Auria Biobank in cancer research and, for example, from Kontiolahti, where the manufacturer of medical devices used to treat diabetes, Sanofi, has invested in expansion. In other research-intensive countries, such as Sweden, the UK, Belgium and Germany, which are also Finnish competitors and stimulate brain drains from Finland, drug development centres have been established within universities. There is also a record in the Government Programme that funding will support strong regional or sectoral centres of expertise. I know that the University of Turku has enjoyed this entry and could act as the National Coordinator of the Centre for Pharmaceutical Development based on the leading role of the Turku region in pharmaceutical development and long history in industrial production. The entire Finnish society is netted from investments and export income in the pharmaceutical industry and health technology. It is essential that we maintain our position at the forefront of high-quality research by taking on attractive career paths for researchers and channeling our skills into success for the future. The health sector, with its research and technological innovations, has a huge potential for growth, just like the bioeconomy, cleantech and digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u80	Mr President! I would like to pick up a little on what we talked about yesterday, on this big picture, and I hope that I will bring a constructive assessment but also some constructive proposals that were needed yesterday. The fact that our GDP growth will be rather slow in the next few years will, as we all know, also challenge this employment objective. Even after that, it is in itself the right thing to do, an effort for a strong employment policy — the same objective as the government that is now determined to do its job. But it all depends on whether we can get the exports to take off and expand its base. If this doesn't work, we're gonna get a little cold in this society. And you have to work hard to do that. Society can create conditions for business to succeed in exports as well: infraa, skills, growth opportunities, investment ground. Let's pick out some of the key themes. Bioeconomy, cleantech, digital economy are important. With interest, I will be waiting for 26 key projects that are probably the right subject matter. Two wishes. The second is that we need growth-oriented companies that are becoming international. And we should support this process. The second is, therefore, that the services sector is very important for employment and for our industry. The private service sector employs 1.8 million people. I would like us to have a strategic industrial policy programme for the services sector. As far as growth is concerned, it has to do with labour input, it has to do with productivity, it has to do with investment. And of course we need more hours, but by improving employment. For example, allow part-time workers to do more hours than they can do today. Then, Prime Minister, on the social pact. From the outset, I would like to say that this is what is needed in this time period, and that can only be based on trust and good cooperation. I am not just talking about a social agreement, but I am very concerned about whether the great principle of this contractual society and tripartite cooperation, which has always been a genuine, equal model of cooperation based on preparation and agreement, will now be changed. There is no mention of triangular cooperation in the Government Programme. Let's talk about consulting and hearing. That's different. We have this kind of three-A-class tripartite collaboration, which has always been based on appreciation, genuine cooperation and reconciliation and achievement. And the results are absolutely incontrovertible. Even during this final term of government — isn't that right, Mr. Stubb? — we are in favour of joint preparation and only of reforms in the field of employment, social security on a wage basis, which are behind a consensus. And now there is no mention of this principle in this government programme. And this is a very big cultural change. I want to ask you, is that right? The main achievements in improving sustainability and competitiveness of this term of government were achieved through tripartite cooperation: two broad labour market solutions, a contract of employment, pension reform and many other legislative projects. And all in common. What is the problem with this approach that we should appreciate and respect? There should be two conditions for a social contract. The second is that the agenda is balanced, more balanced than it is now, and the second is that the government will increase confidence-building measures so that this genuine tripartite cooperation can return to the habit of action. And all I want to say is that perhaps we should proceed realistically and step by step. The first step would be to ensure that the third year's wage settlement for the end of this period can be done jointly and moderately. There are already signs that this too is about to break out. Now, however, we should be able to make this decision and together. And the second step would be to increase the confidence-building measures in a way — and the Prime Minister has promised to take the time to do so — that we can also move on to some of the reforms that are in balance and try to push them through in the context of the budgetary and spending limits debate. And the third point then — this is the fourth stage: 2016 should be a new labour market solution and its preparation should start in good time. And as I say it, the biggest idea of a social contract would be to have a long-term, inclusive labour market solution after this solution. That is the essence of the social pact. These objectives should be pursued by moderation, cooperation, and cooperation. I would like to be able to return to this course of action and take this kind of realistic and cooperative grip. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u81	Mr President! The future operating model of social welfare and health care has been planned for the past 20 years in a number of different studies. The debate on the future operating model started as soon as the previous recession ended, and the National Health Project was scheduled for 2001-2007 and has achieved the best results so far. Among the key objectives, in particular, improvements in health care and prevention remained modest. Currently, according to a study by THL, in 2013, only 15 per cent of Finns lived in municipalities where the doctor received less than two weeks of waiting time. A third of them had a waiting period of five weeks or more. Compared with previous years, the situation had deteriorated further. According to income categories, visits to doctors were also the most unfair among the three OECD countries, the USA, Portugal and Finland. These belong to the lower caste. We are familiar with the latest efforts to establish a social welfare and health care administrative law. As a result of the previous recession in the 1990s, the biggest structural changes in social welfare and health care have been implemented so far: an unprecedented number of patients and staff were closed down. The changes were not all to the advantage. These included, among other things, the abolition of forms of prevention for almost all families in order to generate municipal savings. We are currently reaping the harvest of those low-threshold services. At present, social and health care is undergoing a similar closure of hospitals and the dismantling of services in all its sectors. Despite this, there are still a lot of hospital beds in Finland due to the wards of the health centre. There is no such system anywhere else in the world. Instead, rehabilitation is completely forgotten from the Finnish service concept. Compared to the international level, there is also a great deal of intervention in special care. There are a lot of medical staff and the number of doctors corresponds to international comparisons. So we have a lot of problems in our health system. Current legislation on social welfare and health care already allows for far-reaching cooperation between sectors. There have been experiences in Kainuu, Forssa, Eksote. Our goal in solving health care problems is citizen-oriented development work within the province. However, it has turned into a fight for hegemony about who is leading regional development: whether they are central cities, or whether common objectives are being implemented in the interests of the inhabitants. According to the new Government Programme, the restructuring of social welfare and health care can be carried out on the basis of a one-level regional solution. The organiser responsible for the operation is democratically elected and is also responsible for the provision of services. The new approaches to disease diagnostics, treatment and social services to be introduced are based on a horizontal and vertical integration of citizens-oriented and strong services. In the USA, the most cost-effective players are using a strongly integrated service system similar to the one planned in Finland. Thus, the Kaiser Permanente service provider organisation in California is able to produce healthcare services at a cost of 20 per cent lower than the average in the country and is among the top of the country’s service providers with the same quality indicators. In particular, the organisation has invested in promoting the health of the citizen and in the competence and implementation of self-care. An ever-great Päijät-Häme study has shown, among other things, that strong overweight increases the risk of diabetes five-fold in older people over a period of six years. However, a strong integration of social and health care is a prerequisite for regionally comprehensive and nationally integrated information system with all customer information. Citizens will be able to use the information system to monitor their own care and to produce agreed data on monitoring, research and implementation of treatment. Professionals use data from a single national reporting system in accordance with their own rights. Joint cooperation between the municipalities of the regions, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health Akusti will achieve this objective. At the same time, it is essential to know how the funding of services will be organised when deciding on the future approach to social welfare and health care. The recent opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must be taken into account when deciding on organisation and financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u82	Mr President! We in this Chamber have talked a lot about the surgeries yesterday and today. We opposition have also been asked what those alternatives would be, but I would like to talk about the income side, growth and income, because only and only in that way will Finland and the Finnish welfare state be financed. Minister Toivakka stressed yesterday that the home base should be in order. I'm sure it's true, and it's easy to agree with. But then I would really like to raise the issue of competitiveness. In my opinion, the government makes the word competitiveness quite one-eyed. However, competitiveness is a whole. It's not just wages, it's the cost of work, it's a lot more than that. But why do we have regions in Finland, cities that are successful? Same laws, same languages, etcetera. I would like to raise here, as Mr Strand did yesterday, the town of Vaasa and the region of Vaasa. Exports are in many areas and we can be proud of that. It also shows that sometimes language skills are useful and international skills. In other words, competitiveness is also competence, education and related investments. It is also research and development. That is why we in the opposition are concerned about the government's contribution to these areas. We can also ask if Nokia, our famous cell phone Nokia, fell on too high wages. I can tell you he didn't fall. I am also proud of the fact that we have an experienced and competent Minister for Industry, who certainly has knowledge and relations with the European Union. I'm sure it'll be good for all of us. But then I would like to say a few words about the bioeconomy and about these government choices in general as strategic priorities. The bioeconomy is a good choice, but when we look at it more broadly, its elements and even Äänekoski's investments and other possible investments, we can face challenges. Because it's about wood. There is a lot of wood, but what is its real availability? This too is a good thing to keep in mind. I will also extend this debate to the energy side in the sense that it is really in balance now. No, it's not. Is that from now on? I'm afraid not. What's really gonna happen to our current account? That's what this is all about, isn't it? Discontinuation of coal is the right objective. After all, the government now assumes that the reduction in CO2 tax used in combined heat and power production will be abolished. This is similar to the fact that the use of coal and natural gas in cogeneration plants is clearly more expensive than before. Use of peat or wood is not affected. According to preliminary calculations, the central government collects approximately 40 per cent more money from district heat produced with coal and natural gas. The cost impact is about 70 per cent of the district heat produced in Finland and thus nearly 2 million Finnish citizens. Of course, the idea here is to drive energy companies to replace coal and natural gas with renewable domestic fuel for combined production of electricity and heat. If this happens, at the same time, revenues from the taxation of the use of coal and natural gas will not be received, i.e. the new tax will lose its tax base. Consequently, the demand for wood is increasing and the price is rising. It may be that energy companies are forced to buy wood pellets abroad. Again, it has a negative impact on the trade balance. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to see a contribution from the government to the north, to the Arctic region,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u83	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the government programme, and I am sure there will still be criticism. In fact, criticism of the programme began when it was still not published. We always know that assessing, criticizing and criticizing someone else is easier than taking responsibility. In future, I would also like to see proposals for amendments and an overall picture that should be done differently in order to make this debate constructive. Mr President! As far as the Sipilä Government's programme is concerned, at least I believe and am fully convinced that we are actually building a future that will not be the burden of our children and grandchildren. The decisions in the programme are necessary, although some of them are extremely painful. In particular, I would like to draw up guidelines for the Government Programme on entrepreneurship and the bioeconomy. As has been said, Finland will only rise by working. In the Government Programme, guidelines on entrepreneurship, such as VAT-based payments, a 5% reduction in entrepreneurship and facilitating start-ups are all low-cost decisions measured in money. They are cheap decisions because they increase employment and growth. It is clear that with the vitality and growth of the private sector we can create the conditions for a career of growth envisaged by the Government Programme. Mr President, I would now like to raise one particularly important point about the government programme. The Government Programme states that after the Government term, the profitability of food production has increased and the trade balance has improved by 500 million. After all, our main problem is that we import food to Finland, even if our capacity in Finland is sufficient to produce and our export needs remain. It is now extremely important to make better use of these domestic resources, precisely by correcting our trade balance and the profitability of food production. This is how we take Finland towards a sustainable future. These are deregulation and models of producer and industry organisations which are extremely important and demanding measures. The aim of raising Finland to a growth path is also supported by the Social Pact, which has also received criticism. I have heard it called blackmail, which I think is an incorrect expression. Rather, I think it is fair to bring the facts to the attention of the parties on the basis of which decisions should be taken. In my opinion, denying those facts is an act of running away from responsibility. If the opposition wants to interpret this as blackmail, the demander is not the Sipilä government, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Finnish economy. The productivity leap achieved by the social agreement is vital for our exports, among other things. It is good that the government has taken decisive steps to implement it. Let's acknowledge it here in the Chamber, too. Mr President! I would like to remind my colleagues that we cannot continue as we have for the last four years. We must no longer deny the figures based on facts, but we must put them on the table with courage. In addition, the answer to these figures can no longer be to accept or deny additional debt. The necessary reforms must be brought to the finish with strong and modern leadership and precise indicators of success. Our leadership will now change from what we are all accustomed to. Mr President! Traditional hierarchies make management too rigid in an increasingly complex social environment. It maintains unnecessary walls between different administrative sectors and therefore does not make full use of the information available at different levels of government. This kind of management is bureaucratic, old-fashioned, feeding itself to continue the way it has been used to. Instead of burning bridges, let us try to build them. Let's get Finland out of the swamp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u84	Secretary Rehn, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u85	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen for this debate and especially for his critical but constructive speech. It is important that you say that a social pact is needed. I fully agree, not just because I am a former member of the SAK European Council. This government has two main tasks. The first is to stop Finland's debt. The second is to invest in sustainable growth and employment, thereby raising the employment rate to 72% and the number of people employed to a strong increase. The precondition for this is that we are able to repair the competitiveness of Finnish work and production, and that requires a social pact as part of the economic strategy you are calling for. I also agree with two other points raised in the debate. Firstly, we need a business and sector-specific dialogue in which the service sector plays a very important role in the economy and employment of Finland as a whole. The internationalisation of companies and the development of the investment environment are also of paramount importance. As Mr Skinner said, we need to be able to make much better use of the European Union's investment programme and the growth fund today, so that we can better mobilise funding and thus invest in Finnish SMEs, as well as in many important growth sectors such as the bioeconomy and cleantech, to increase investment in Finnish companies. Secondly, I also agree that negotiations on a social agreement must have a balanced agenda. While working time issues and local arrangements are on the table, the question may be asked whether not only change security should be raised on the same table, but also the involvement of staff in companies. The fact is that we are after Germany and Sweden and we need to bring this matter to a proper European level. That is why I appeal to the labour market partners to work together for forward-looking and balanced solutions,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u86	Mr President! In terms of many economic indicators, Finland is currently doing worse than it was in a long time, but we also have strengths that are not measurable in money, strengths that are measurable in money, and opportunities that are waiting for material gain. Of course, not everything can be measured in money or should be. Virtues are called character traits that appear in works. They are needed in today's Finland. Finland has been recorded in the Government Programme as being tough. I think it describes Finland well. I would like to continue to emphasise our potential in the bio- and circular economy. It is a Finland of opportunity, and there are excellent records of this in the Government Programme. The government is investing in raising the bioeconomy. Increasing our energy self-sufficiency with domestic bioenergy, such as peat and wood chips, also supports our employment and economic growth. I also think that demo projects should ensure that even a small one can work with the big industry. Many large companies today have started in a fist shop or garage. Every employer has started with a dream, and some dreams grow from small to large. The ideas and local entrepreneurship that originate from the regions and their resources – such as cross-sectoral rural entrepreneurship, as is enshrined in the Government Programme – will create new jobs and maintain the vitality of the countryside when given the opportunity. At the same time, we can use natural resources in different colors of the bioeconomy in a sustainable way. I have already spoken about the potential of hunting and fishing and wilderness in the regions, not forgetting, of course, traditional agricultural and forestry jobs. In my view, in order to mobilise wood in a sustainable way, constructive records have been recorded in the Government Programme. There is a need to invest in the maintenance and construction of railway, water and road routes. Mr President! As regards internal security, the Government Programme states: "Finland is the safest country in the world to live, try and work." It is also reported that "the basis for internal security is the operational capacity of the police throughout the country". On behalf of my profession, I can agree with that. The police should be able to see where people live and move, but the periphery must not be forgotten. I also welcome the fact that the Government will report on the state of internal security by the end of May 2016. Then we will see what has yet to be done to make Finland the safest country in the world. Finally, Mr President, Finland will survive by working, caring and trying. These issues were already on the table in the shadow budget of the Finns of Finland last season. These are also strongly featured in the Government Programme today. I understand the criticisms of the opposition very well. The opposition's role, and an important task in particular, is to present its own options and challenge the government's programme. I don't think any of us in this room are happy about any surgery. However, I welcome the elements of economic growth in this programme and not least in the forest-based bioeconomy. There's a lot of good in the government program. Now it is important to move these things forward at full power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u87	Mr President! I think it is very important now that we stop and see what is happening to the welfare society. The state of the national economy is serious and debt is real. Structural changes and adjustments are needed, but in a way that is fair. According to the Government Programme, the Government's decisions are not fair. Prime Minister Sipilä says in his speech that savings decisions do not endanger the welfare society. But one must also ask the government’s position on what a welfare society is. In my opinion, there is now a great risk that the government programme will lead Finland towards a night watchman society, according to the textbook. The Nordic welfare society includes a culture of reconciliation, a goal of small income differences, common public services and equality, so that every person can live a full life. This is what the government program doesn't recognize. Instead, there are many threats that we do not yet know about. First, I take the culture of reconciliation. The social pact is very important, but what is essential is how to reach this agreement, as has already been said on many occasions in this Chamber. You can't dictate that. The government would now still have a window open for a new outlook if this blackmail mentality were abandoned and a new solution-oriented mode was introduced to the negotiating table. Another sign of danger is a variety of vague experiments and a service initiative copied from Sweden. I welcome the piloting exercise as such, but the Government Programme does not provide an answer to how these experiments will be carried out. After all, the key objective of the service initiative is to bring a private service provider alongside all public services. If we go down this road in Sweden, the result will be the inequality of people and the directing of common tax resources to private profit. Private services will then no longer be referred to as services complementary to basic public services, but as services replacing them. When all this is done in a situation where the government weakens public services by reducing access, increasing group sizes and reducing professional skills, the danger is real. In addition, the Government also intends to weaken the human dimension of the recommendation on enhanced service housing for the elderly. The position of elderly people in need of care is already inadequate. I wonder how students can be counted into the staffing scale. After all, a student cannot be held responsible for professional work. He's learning his trade, isn't he? A third threat to the welfare society is an unequal income distribution policy. Social security cuts target pensioners, unemployed and families with children and students. Mr President! Children have our common future, and a serious threat is now hanging over the good growth environment of children. The cuts and limitations planned by the government for day care, early childhood education and basic education endanger the conditions for the growth and learning of children. There are also no proposals in the Government Programme to reconcile work and family. For example, the government does not propose any measures to compensate employers, entrepreneurs and family leave costs. Instead, the government intends to weaken the position of entrepreneurs and employers in women-dominated sectors by cutting the Kela allowance paid to them during parental leave. Women’s entrepreneurs stress the need to move forward in balancing family costs. Let's go back. Nor can I understand how the sustainability gap will be addressed by increasing social and health services and the fees for day care and afternoon activities. Finland already has a questionable reputation because of its high payment policy. This has been stated in many international reports. It is now proposed to collect very large payment revenues from service users. High charges, weakening of services — all of this builds up for ordinary people, pensioners, unemployed, families with children. On the other hand, those who work well - paid do not notice anything. I know many people who would be willing to pay more taxes instead of scrapping people's services. It has been said that the welfare society is the best friend of a woman and that effective social and health services make it possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u88	Mr President! I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that Finland's direction must change. The message was also clear in the electoral fields: this path of indecision cannot continue. It is inconceivable that we can continue in a state of frozenness by living in debt and repaying our debts to our children. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä conducted the government negotiations with engineering precision. Despite the difficult situation, the programme was negotiated quickly. The Prime Minister showed his excellent leadership skills, which are certainly needed during this reign. The Government Programme is strategic but very concrete with its annexes. All the government parties were campaigning for entrepreneurs. In this respect, the Government Programme has been very successful. Entrepreneurs have said that the programme is the most pro-ent entrepreneur of all time. The programme includes much-needed incentives for SMEs, i.e. precisely where Finnish jobs are currently created. Among other things, we will introduce a 5% reduction in entrepreneurship for business and professional activities, farmers, forestry and reindeer husbandry, and business and tax associations. The inheritance tax will also be reduced, thus promoting generational exchanges. Small businesses will be able to account for VAT on a payment basis in the future. Value added tax does not have to be paid until the money for the performance has been received. This is an important reform for small businesses, because the money is available to the company immediately and not on a loan from the state. In addition, large industrial projects introduce a procedure for speeding up authorisation processes and routine licensing issues are transferred to the notification procedure. Here are just a few examples of promoting entrepreneurship. Mr President! Our competitiveness can no longer be undermined. Like thieves — mostly as a result of political decision-making — we have accumulated unreasonably regulation and obligations for companies, the third sector and municipalities. It's time for the legislators to look in the mirror. We can do with less regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u93	Mr President! The government’s most challenging task is undoubtedly related to the state of public finances. The economic downturn has continued since 2008, when our country plunged into an unprecedented recession as a result of the international financial crisis. This spring, the European Commission has made a remark to Finland about the monetary and economic union A violation of the EMU stability criteria. Our country's government debt exceeds the 60% of GDP threshold and the general government deficit is above 3% of GDP. Other parts of Europe are different, and elsewhere in the euro area the economy has already turned in a favourable direction. This has been influenced, among other things, by the fall in oil prices, the monetary policy decisions of the European Central Bank and the economic adjustment measures taken in the Member States and structural reforms. The background is also to strengthen the banking sector and to reduce private sector debt levels. It is a good question whether Finland will be left behind and, if so, why Finland will be left behind from the rest of the euro area. In its long-term growth estimate, the Bank of Finland estimates that economic growth will remain on average at around 1% between 2014 and 2030. This dire assessment is due, among other things, to the decline in the working-age population and to the structural change in the economy, in which we have lost production of high value added. Demand will increase in the future in the area of slow productivity growth, especially there. The weak developments in recent years are also explained by the reduced participation rate of young adults and the lack of productive investment. To some extent, our country's exports are also weighed down by the weakness of the Russian economy and the serious uncertainties surrounding it. There is no shortcut to happiness, and hard work is needed to overcome difficulties. However, it must be said firmly that our country's economy will not go up with cuts and spending savings in any way whatsoever. A view of economic growth is needed. The difficulties can be overcome if we succeed in restoring our country's cost competitiveness and in making the necessary structural reforms. Action is also needed to halt public debt. That is why immediate expenditure adjustment is needed, but once again: cuts do not turn our country's economy into growth. It is a matter of concern whether the cuts proposed by the government are rather a slowdown in growth. At least in the short term, such tight fiscal policies do not support economic growth. Mr President! The cuts will also have an impact on future long-term growth. From the point of view of the productivity leap pursued by the Government, significant savings in education and research are poorly thought out. In terms of productivity, it is essential to invest in research, technological development and, on the other hand, in higher education in particular, which contributes to the uptake and development of best technologies. However, the government seems to have chosen a conscious line to reduce the level of education by reducing master's degrees. This line is worrying from the point of view of human capital and economic growth. Savings from day care and early childhood education also undermine the high level of knowledge and also undermine the rights of children and the labour market position of women. Mr President! The government's values are clear. The concerns expressed rightly by the opposition about the income distribution effects of the Government Programme's budget line are branded as 'kiss'. The expression is that the big boys don't make much of a softie. The line is also highlighted in the international section of the Government Programme, which hardly deals with multilateral international cooperation. The definition of the government's foreign policy appears to be a national interest and only a national interest. Development cooperation is being cut back in a way that may call into question our country's international reputation. Especially in economically difficult times, leadership would demonstrate the ability to side with the weaker both at home and internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, several ministers have asked to speak. The idea is that they should be allowed to speak from time to time, then a few speeches by the representative, and the debat will be cleared up as genuine tension arises between the representatives and the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u95	Mr President! A few comments on two topics. Firstly, there is concern here about how equality issues are dealt with within the government. The Government Programme's references are considered to be rather limited. Just as a comment: in accordance with the idea of the strategic government programme, there are many other things missing from that government programme that are in preparation or that are progressing. I have on my desk a list of laws with 27 copies that are withdrawn from the previous government, and their preparation will mainly continue as planned. With regard to gender issues, we have a Government report on the last parliamentary term, to which is the response of Parliament aimed at a more equal Finland in 2020. This line is to be continued. Secondly, there was a question here about the equal pay programme. To the extent that the government has the right to move forward with the equal pay programme, I see no reason why we should not encourage further work that has been carried forward on a tripartite basis. Thirdly, during the last parliamentary term, the government has had its own programme on equality. In what form, what is the concrete document that will be recorded, it is still open at this stage, but you can be absolutely sure that cross-administrative equality issues will move forward. And then, Mr President, another point. There have been several speeches on services for the ageing population and on services relating to the foundations of the welfare society. With regard to the services of the ageing population, we have a key core objective for people to live at home as long as possible. We have the savings of EUR 270 million in state aids, which were specifically targeted at institutional care for the ageing population.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u96	Mr President! Now that I have been following this debate on the communication from the Government of Juha Sipilä’s programme, it has sometimes been difficult to identify this programme and identify this government from these statements made by opposition parties. I have also received feedback from voters and citizens that the repeated screams that have been heard from this toilet and also from a number of interlocutors have been difficult to identify with this programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First you start with compliments, then critical observations. As far as the recommendations are concerned, the Government's basic foreign and security policy is a good one. It is carefully considered and continues the long line in Finland. This line is easy to support. I hope that, this time, we will see a government which has been incorporated by all ministers in the agreed text and which will also act publicly in accordance with the line that has been adopted together. I believe that the whole Parliament can support this line. Now to this problematic part. Is this show brave? Yes, it's brave. Is this a tough show? Yeah, it's tough. Will Finland be different after four years when this programme has been implemented? Yeah, it's definitely different. Does this reduce inequality in Finland? No, it doesn't. Does this increase the culture of cooperation in Finland? No more. Here earlier, my colleague, Mr Ihalainen, discussed the change to tripartite cooperation, and I will continue with this theme. The government has made a very significant change in the way it declares it is working with the labour market. Until now, when all governments have committed themselves to tripartite cooperation, to genuinely negotiate and cooperate, this government does not know the word tripartite. The Government's social pact and the way it is implemented is an example of this. I confess that I was somewhat enthusiastic when the president of the city centre Sipilä started to talk about this theme last autumn, and I thought that this was the way to bring the nation together: to listen, to seek cooperation and to go past these difficult economic difficulties through cooperation, in agreement. Having seen the outcome, I am greatly surprised. The government's broad economic policy is now fully anchored on the success of this social pact. When the government’s own employment and competitiveness measures are very inadequate and inadequate, the birth of the entire government’s economic line in order to boost growth depends on whether this tripartite cooperation — with my ears in tripartite cooperation, the Government’s terminology in achieving a social pact — will be successful. The prognosis is not so good. I am surprised that Prime Minister Sipilä chose the option of this delegation presented in December last year, which was the alternative of the then Prime Minister Stubb: that the government should decide what to do and then give the deadlines within which to act, and then, when that result comes, the government will accept it, and if not, then good will not follow. There has been a debate here about whether this is blackmail. It has been said that this is openly stated. That's true, but I'm sure it feels like blackmail to the parties involved. We have the Minister of Labour and Justice. I too agree that this combination of the Minister for Labour and Justice was a rather surprising solution, and it is urgent. But when I heard Mr Lindström's comment on Sunday when he said that this social pact is very unbalanced and that all these flexibility requirements have been put in place for employees and that the good stuff has been reserved for employers, I thought that this is, however, the Minister of Justice's speech that he recognises justice and fairness. Today I was disappointed because he began to cancel — if I heard correctly — what he said on Sunday. If the government builds such a blackmailing position, in which the weakening is placed unilaterally on the employees, how do you feel that a genuine social pact could be established, in which everyone is involved? I am confused when I hear the Prime Minister's speeches here, how good the spirit is and how he has spoken in a good spirit, and then I read the magazines in which the employees' directors feel that they are being blackmailed and consider the setting unheard of. Today, the first decision has come to the effect that the third-year wage settlements of the current income agreement have become the first exits. This is a bad sign, a bad sign of how the government is able to engage in dialogue with the labour market. The risk is increasing that this social pact will collapse with this blackmail and, as a result, the government's growth policy and its competitiveness policy will also collapse. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen :Yes,representative,thinks have changed. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u104	Mr President! Mr Haatainen has already left, but I will come back to the point he raised, which is what this experimental culture really means. First of all, I am quite sure that he, as the long-term vice-president of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, is well aware of what the experiments can accomplish in the municipalities or in the whole country. I would stress that it is actually a little more than what is currently being done with the experiments. We have had some major experiments, including the administrative experiment in Kainuu, but I would stress that it is a question of changing the whole culture at all. We are more like this kind of design society, where there is no desire to do this kind of experience-based experiments in implementation and decision-making. In fact, when there are records of pilot activities here, one is that the municipal law could be changed so that there would be a section that would make it easier to organise these experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u105	Mr President! The Youth Guarantee needs to be developed in the direction of the Community guarantee. The work undertaken by the previous government to tackle youth unemployment and the exclusion of young people is still very much under way. According to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, at the end of last April there were 42,400 young unemployed job seekers, which is 4,700 more than one year earlier in 2014. Unemployment among young people and, as it persists, social exclusion is one of our main social problems. The youth guarantee project initiated by the previous government was seriously caught up in the administrative burden. Mr President! Communityism is needed instead of governance. The ability to help oneself and the responsibility for themselves and for fellow humans must be strengthened. There is a need for a comprehensive package of young people with a sufficient range of means to support young people in different life situations. First of all, the development of the Youth Guarantee must be accompanied by a reform of service models. A guarantee can't work if you're playing kids from one hatch to the other. The new model to be developed must assume that young people will receive their key social and health services from a single door. An example can well be found in the Danish model of youth service centres. The key is that one person is responsible for the services of the young person. We have to get rid of shredded services once and for all. A young person who has lost his self-esteem, who is excluded, is discouraged by the chaos of forms and bureaucracy as much as he or she is of other age. Secondly, the flow of information in the administration is also essential for the functioning of services. In my own province, Central Finland, those working in youth work and employment have encountered difficulties with the flow of information and confidentiality rules. Services are prevented from being provided because officials are afraid to provide information to another authority. Fortunately, the Government Programme has also set out the objective of clarifying these provisions. With these confidentiality issues, we really need common sense. Thirdly, part of the development of the Youth Guarantee must be the strengthening of outreach youth work. Searching youth work enables young people with multiple problems to re-enter services and society. Culture and sport are the most important tools I have just called for for self-development and health maintenance, and therefore also important for young people to implement the Youth Guarantee. These are the priorities of this government. Fourthly, the reform of the financing system for secondary vocational education and training must place emphasis on the success of education. Funding is no longer rewarded for being in school, but for graduating there. At present, the number of suspensions is worrying in certain educational establishments. The new system should encourage vocational institutions to invest in personal guidance and close student-teacher interaction. This will also contribute to the implementation of the Youth Guarantee. This government is not in love with old structures and administrative bureaucracy; it is in love with good services. Mr President! The Sipilä Government's programme creates new opportunities for preventing the exclusion of young people and for remedial measures, thereby reducing both human and social costs for society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u106	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen in his own speech just now asked whether the opposition knew that Finland was in a serious situation. Yes, I know that Finland is in a difficult situation. Our business and export base has collapsed and jobs and incomes have been lost at the same time. Growth has been slower than expected. We all certainly recognise that the situation really is serious and wants to do our best to remedy it, whether it is a party within the government or in the opposition. For this reason too, I am sorry that: The Sipilä Government’s programme simply provides opportunities for creating new growth and employment, thereby improving the economic situation and the lives of ordinary Finns. Instead of actively contributing to the creation of a new business structure, new growing companies and jobs, the government is now cutting off future growth and purchasing power. Pre-eminence, over-measured and incorrectly targeted cuts not only widen the gap between income and well-being at the moment but also weaken the sprouting growth. Instead of a visionless cutting policy, we should now invest in the future and work together to find ways to help create new businesses, innovations and export products, thereby strengthening the renewal of our business base and the creation of new jobs. Mr President! The Prime Minister and representatives of the government parties have stated on several occasions that everyone is involved in austerity. However, this does not seem to be the case. This simply does not seem to be the case. The low-income and vulnerable contribute to the savings through government policies, very tough cuts, even if they cannot afford it. At the same time, there are only hopes for voluntary wage and benefit cuts for the strong and wealthy, but we are not prepared to take concrete action, through which the well-off would also contribute to the joint effort. I think it would be reasonable, at the very least, for those who actually can afford to participate in economic activity through taxation. In fact, I agree with Archbishop Kari Mäkinen's genuinely reasonable performance. My salary can also be cut through taxation. Not only would this be fair, it would also increase government tax revenues and reduce the need to cut off low-income students, pensioners, families with children, people living alone. These pious hopes of the government, on the other hand, do not add any tax euros to the state treasury. With the decisions of its programme, the government will tear the gap between the good and the bad by its tax policies favouring the wealthier, oversized cuts and the freezing of the income transfer and pension indices. While the change in housing allowance alone takes over 100 euros per month from low-income pensioners, 130 million euros from students and more than 200 million euros from unemployed people through the reduction in inheritance tax, among other things. The only proposals and tax decisions that the government also wants to make in favour of austerity measures are the retention of the solidarity tax, and this is also true only because during its last term of office, the Social Democrats received a majority despite strong opposition. Equality between women and men will also be hammered by the government through a number of different measures. Women's labour market status, children's rights and family welfare will be undermined by limiting subjective day care rights, which will not even bring savings to the state's treasury. This has been calculated during the last term of the government and the SDP's request for a proposal was dropped at that time. It is therefore a purely ideological decision for this government, which seems to be based on the place of women at home. Services will be drastically cut across the board, which will be seen directly as an increase in well-being between citizens. Over 600 million will be cut out of training. Day care groups are being raised. The indexation of child supplements will be removed. The human resources of older services will be weakened. All in all, the programme of the basic bourgeois government that has now been formed is quite unbalanced and unfair with regard to the means of balancing the economy, taxation and cuts. While others are severely cut, others are offered wishes for participation — or even given. In addition, growth efforts are becoming modest, i.e. medicines to create new growth and jobs are not provided by the government programme. Mr President! As I said at the outset, Finland is in a difficult situation and now a responsible policy must be taken, regardless of the position of its own party. In the run-up to the elections, the Social Democrats put forward their own responsible alternative, both in terms of balancing the economy and in terms of the country's sustainable and fair construction. We will also stick to these proposals after the elections and we will offer this alternative to a government's cold policy of blackmail, which undermines trust and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u107	Mr President! The formation of the Government Programme has been quite stimulating, namely, with the precision of the process diagram, it was created at a very tight pace and the paper is good. Its modest aim is to: Finland would return to one of the most advanced countries in the world. This means, of course, that public finances must be in order. I hate to talk about money, especially if it's not there. One of the strengths of the Government Programme is definitely that many difficult savings have already been decided upon at the moment level. Of course, balancing public finances is a system of loyalty, and the point of view why this is being done may often be overlooked. This will be done so that generations after us will have the same and better chance of building a homeland. With the burden of debt exhausted, that's not possible. Therefore, the issue of the overturning of growing sovereign debt is primarily a generation issue. It is our duty to future decision-makers, to future generations. The measures to balance the economy are extensive. They are so far advanced that international credit rating agencies should be content with this, and instead of direct savings, we should find ways to make things more sensible. This appears to be cutting through the entire government program. In particular, I am pleased that efforts are now being made to balance the plight of the municipalities as well. It has not been fair to cut the central government shares of municipalities, at the same time adjust additional tasks and hope that the economy will be balanced. If municipalities are to save money, obligations must also be lifted. Concrete proposals and measures will be pursued by the time of the budget debate. Secondly, I consider it a great victory for the common sense to facilitate construction, the bureaucracy and the authorisation procedure involved, and, for example, to play a role in the decisions on derogations, above all, in the municipalities. The devolution of power to the regions is an historic achievement of this government programme. The aim is to transfer decision-making powers to autonomous regions, which is a major step in the Finnish democratic system. Thirdly, this government programme also reflects the regional policy line. Breaking the road repair debt with an additional EUR 600 million package and investing in it have waited too long. The reform of social and health services is being pursued by 19 elected models, and I assume that the West Basin is also involved. This is respect for territoriality. What about the energy guidelines? Ambitiously abandoning coal, reducing imported oil and replacing domestic renewable energies. Overall, the Government Programme contains a lot of good objectives and details. It is also true that it is also hard paper, because the austerity pressures are so high. Criticism is therefore terribly easy, and I hope that, instead of just criticism, there will always be an alternative. Although the government program is always system-oriented, I still think that this paper shows a person. Bureaucracy is facilitated because it is reasonable, it serves man, and the need for human development, trust, responsibility is at the heart of the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u108	Mr President! To begin with, unlike the previous speaker, it must be said that this paper does not show much of a person. In other words, the Government Programme does not unite but divides Finns. It speaks for itself of the fact that people, people's needs, are not known in a way that unites Finns. This government programme shows a strong division in which those who already have the carrying capacity will not, however, use the carrying capacity to make Finland rise again. Politics is a value choice, and the biggest value choice in this government programme is made in who is actually the people who play their part. I am particularly sorry that taxes were forgotten as a means of maintaining fiscal balance. It is very incredible that the majority in this House believe that the high incomes and the rich in society are not involved in these efforts at all on the pretext that they are not receiving social benefits. Yes, the government has genuinely forgotten those who depend on safety nets in society. It is easy to say that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer again, and this means that politics is value choices that are then strengthened by their own actions. Mr President! The government parties betrayed everything they promised people in the election. I think that Mr Soini summed this up very well when he commented on the Government Programme negotiations by saying that there are no difficult decisions, but the right decisions. At least I am horrified by this misconception of electoral promises, which is written together in this government programme. Some examples of this, too: I find it incredible that the government is not going to try to reduce income and wealth disparities during this term of government, unlike in the previous term of government, it was a guiding principle when the state finances were dealt with. Now there is more than an exception to the fact that we have not even promised to examine the effects of income distribution on these key policy areas. The increase in inequality has been taken as a fact given here, which does not seek political influence. And "everybody involved in voluntary work" means that only those with high income are involved in this request. Perhaps the worst part of this whole category of failed promises is that Sipilä has a blackmail screw at its disposal, which is already based on the fact that the government, through its own actions, is setting itself up in the hands of employers. When there are two parties that should find each other, normally the government does not assume at its own table that it is already directly elected an EK relief party. I feel very bad about that. This is a good indication of the government's leadership style. Trust, cooperation and openness are nothing more than rhetoric. They are just rhetoric under which the entire load of extortion, intimidation and secrecy is covered, which is then dumped in the hands of employees. In that respect, I am very sorry about this complaint. Mr President! Then there are a few individual comments. It is certainly not at all unclear that the competitiveness of this country begins in the classroom. It will still start in the classroom in the future. Where did the government make a big and decisive mistake when it comes to supporting the country's competitiveness? It was thought that the investments in knowledge could be significantly negative, or at worst aimed specifically at what has never been seen in education policy, namely a reduction in the level of competence. There will be an historic government of this kind, too, because there will be no support from Finns for knowingly calculating the level of competence of Finns through policy decisions. Now every single level of education assumes that the level of competence will be reduced. The starting point for early childhood education is that the state of early childhood education in this kingdom is weakened, when four years were worked to improve it. In this regard, it should also be noted that not all children are able to access early childhood education, which seems to be a rather unusual choice of values, i.e. a significant reduction in the level of competence in some of them. The special thing about basic education is that this Sipilä government does not commit to commonly agreed goals. Well, I'm tired of wondering about it because it turns out that Even on the Defence Forces side, the agreed parliamentary solutions were changed so that plus minus zero was left in the hands of the parliamentary contributions that were, however, decided to be made together. In this case, it is a big disappointment that the joint reform of comprehensive school will not take place. Furthermore, President-in-Office, it must also be said that how could this happen, that the Finns in the field of higher education would be satisfied with the fact that the level of master's competence is being reduced to a candidate level and that this is the starting point and the intention is to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u111	Mr President! All well-being in this country will eventually rise from work and its productivity. The Government Programme provides a very strong basis for this. Many fine speeches have been made in this Chamber on the positive effects of the programme, and the opposition has also given constructive criticism of the programme, albeit to a small extent. I would like to highlight one aspect of the programme which, if implemented, can contribute to boosting Finland's economic growth. As a passionate fisher and spokesperson for the tourism industry, I am pleased that Juha Sipilä's Government is committed to implementing a salmon and sea trout strategy and, most importantly, to implementing a fish road strategy. With these guidelines, the return of salmon to the river Kemi-Ounas and, for example, to the river Iijoki is closer than ever before. The main objective of the Fisheries Strategy is to strengthen the vitality of our endangered and endangered migratory fish stocks. The most durable way to achieve this is to restore the hiking link to the already built watercourses. The rise of migratory fish in rivers, which is made possible by fishing, creates the conditions for the development of positive social and economic impacts and the organisation of sustainable fishing. Without a natural reproductive cycle, the stock of fish to be maintained will not be viable. The production of placenta by fish farming can lead to long-term genetic changes and loss of viability. Natural life cycles and the emergence of pups as a result of natural selection contribute to and improve the viability of fish stocks. Mr President! It is also about correcting the old injustice. Although hydroelectric construction was necessary at the time and has brought economic prosperity, it does not eliminate the fact that the destruction of migratory fish stocks was a great injustice. We should have taken care of the construction of the fishing roads at that time. Fortunately, it is in our own hands to remedy this situation and it can be done with determined and long-term work. I also believe that we should not even discuss the issue of additional hydro-electricity until hiking fish are returned to genuinely sustainable watercourses. It is the least that can be expected of hydropower companies and the state in this situation. At the same time, the fishing obligations imposed on companies must be reviewed. According to the studies prepared, these obligations are very small in the light of current knowledge, 5 to 7 times as small as they should actually be for salmon on the Kemi River. The implementation of the strategy will have a positive impact on the living conditions, livelihoods and comfort of local people. With hiking fish, the value of the land in the municipalities along the river will rise and become more and more desirable objects for housing and leisure. In turn, new products can be developed for fishing tourism. In Sweden, it is estimated that fishing tourism will bring export income of up to EUR 100 million. Unfortunately, Finland is lagging behind in this development. Migratory stocks are so rich and an opportunity that they should not be left untapped. Mr President! Even internationally, salmon and sea trout stocks that live in their natural habitat can be proud. From the bottom of my heart, I hope that the whole Parliament will respond to this challenge and work together to ensure that the salmon return to the harnessed rivers in the near future. Juha Sipilä’s Government’s programme enables this, and this also helps to prove that this government wants to leave this country in a better condition for posterity than it itself received.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u112	Mr President! The programme of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government contains positive changes to society, as an example of the investment in the road network. This investment brings faith in long distances to Northern Finland. This will reduce the extra transport costs caused by weight restricted bridges and bad roads, for example, to the detriment of the forest industry. The promise to municipalities that tasks and obligations will be reduced by EUR 1 billion will be welcomed with joy. The objective of deregulation and the promise to take immediate action is a clear change of direction. The Government Programme has the idea of bringing responsibility and decision-making power to the municipalities, which is exactly where there is close expertise. As regards planning and construction, the role of Ely Centres will be changed into a consultative role. It is also a welcome fact that binding processing times are set for public authorities. Deviation decisions are transferred to municipalities as a whole. Could it even be thought that the regulation of beach construction was restored at a time when, for example, it was possible to build its five cottages for one kilometer? The residents of leisure are a resource for many of the northern sparsely populated municipalities. Many of them would like to come to their leisure municipality by sharing their municipality with two municipalities. I hope that this will take place, for example, through the development of digitalisation. Mr President! The Finnish school is internationally valued. As such, it would have to be preserved, up - to - date and serving society’s goals. In recent measurements, the learning results of Finns have deteriorated, the differences between municipalities and schools are large despite the efforts made. However, I do not believe that the solution to improving the results is a group size. In the future, the organiser of the teaching must himself consider the formation of appropriate groups and the organisation of the teaching. Other means of quality in basic education include quality teacher training and good working conditions for teachers. There has also been red tape in schools. This too should be reduced. The Government Programme aims to reform the school. Now, let's take over the technology without prejudice. At the same time, new opportunities for learning will be sought and every learner will be able to move forward according to his or her own conditions. Strengthening the participation of students improves school satisfaction and improves learning outcomes. The Nice School Programme is a workable solution and a proven approach to preventing bullying and tackling the problem. I recommend that it be fully utilised. Indeed, the Mobility School model mentioned in the programme should be extended to all schools. I am delighted that the ability of schoolchildren to cope and, at the same time, the suffering of future adults is being addressed by increasing physical activity. Homes should also be included in these sports activities, as children of mobile parents are mobile. The strength of the example in exercise is strong. Regular exercise starting as a child continues until later. Guide children and young people to move around and take responsibility for their own health. The family contributions of the Government Programme improve the situation of families. I believe that this effort will be visible both in schools as a peace of work and as an increase in the well-being of society as a whole. As a matter of individual concern, I am raising the issue of biodiversity conservation. The programme includes the establishment of a national park during the centenary year of Finland. I agree with the Suomussalmi municipality's proposal to designate the Hossa-Rude-Olkky area as the National Park of the centenary. The Government of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has chosen the path of responsibility and bold reform in support of enterprise. Mr President! Finns are ready for change. In order to implement this change, we now need the same attitude that the government programme under discussion has been built on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u113	Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speech by Mrs Parviainen was the last pre-requested speech on the rapid part of the debate, with a five-minute limit on the duration of the speech. The Council of Presidents recommends that, even in the speeches from now on, that limit should be set at 5 minutes. However, it is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u114	Mr President! It was a good thing that you said that only when I was on my way, so I was afraid to turn back for more papers, but let's try to keep this here in five minutes. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! We have been going through this in detail for two days, we have also been going through this big picture of the government programme and the line that the government has chosen for this country. There have been many calls for alternatives. We have raised it in this debate, we have raised it before the elections, we have raised it in the question of the rapporteur, and we will continue to raise it in this Chamber. I am now going through the SDP's economic policy programme, that is, the programme that we published before the elections, the programme that we are also going to stand behind after the elections. I'm gonna go over it right now. It is a six-point programme, which goes as follows: First of all, we need to get the export going. The most important thing is to improve competitiveness in all our areas: cost level, productivity, skills and product range. At cost level, it is essential to achieve a moderate wage settlement, a long-term outlook on the labour market. It seems that this is where the government is failing. In terms of productivity, we need to improve. According to Etla's leader, Maliranta, the government is taking a big leap back; productivity is at least working differently from the studies. Knowledge is a key part of real competitiveness. Now there will be very large cuts in education that have been discussed today, and when you look at the means to improve the product range, there will be few ways to do so. What the government lacks is an export-driven growth strategy. Instead of this leeway now being used here and there, and in particular for the various tax reductions for many farmers, it should be directed towards the export industry, the compensation of emissions trading costs, the energy burden on industry should be reduced, fairway charges should be further reduced and rail taxes should be continued. Instead, the Government’s blackmail package includes an increase in passenger ship support, an increase in energy taxes, electricity taxes, an increase in fairway charges, an increase in rail taxes. I ask how these measures will improve competitiveness. In the SDP programme, point 2 is investment in motion. This means, in particular, where their output-input ratio is the highest. Looks like we're going the other way. Not only are transport projects cut by 700 million, but also in this region, where there is the greatest potential for new jobs, there is not going to be the key investment needed to link transport, housing and land use policies together and thus also to improve productivity. Point 3 of the SDP programme is that we need to make the domestic market grow. Now this government's tax line looks like it, and not only does it look like it does, but the way it is is that income differentials are increasing. It'll only leave traces for people with low and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u119	Mr President! The hope is that the opposition will also read the government programme and read from the ranks as well as a little between the lines. To Mr Lindtman's speech on just one point: EUR 3 billion, the reform of social security in this country. We have relied on only one of the figures provided by the Ministry of Finance in the impact assessment of the implementation of the social welfare reform, in the euro-denominated assessment. At the negotiating stage, we finished the papers, they were sent to the Minister for Finance for evaluation, and the EUR 3 billion stamp has been put on. We only had, and only one, irreparable figures from the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, your 200 million: we have hundreds of millions of people on this subject and will certainly have, and simply better use of ict technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u120	Mr President! Representative Lindtman said that the SDP supports export-driven growth and that it requires strengthening our competitiveness, and to this end you offered moderate wage solutions. They are also needed, but I do not understand what logic, when you want to promote competitiveness and you want to promote exports, you are as opposed to this social pact as you do. You take the view that 'a little sour,' said the fox about berry berries', although every economic expert in this country and a little outside the borders can prove to you that if such a social agreement, which would strengthen our competitiveness in the way the government has planned, would actually increase employment in this country. Why are you resisting this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u121	Mr President! To this last point, just briefly, I would like to say once again that, over these two days, we have probably offered the Prime Minister a hand of cooperation ten times, saying: give up the blackmail package, the blackmail package that is undermining competitiveness;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u124	Mr President! This social agreement has now been discussed very many times, but I would like to say that it is now quite clear that here the whole opposition hopes that such an agreement could arise. The entire opposition hopes that it can be born. And we have been supporting that idea from the outset, considering it to be a very good one from the President of the Centre, Sipilä. But we are concerned about the turn that this agreement has taken when it has turned into a blackmail package, which is being put on the backs of employees. Congressman Zyskowicz is shaking his head. That is why I quote your colleague, Mr Eero Lehte, who I respect, who says that negotiations must take place in such a way as to put the ball inside the penalty zone of the other side and then kick the ball. Let's put the ball inside the penalty zone and then we'll kick the ball. That's exactly what the employee side is like.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u125	Mr President! There's no way I can follow your logic. You say yes to the social pact, but give up that blackmail package, which means these conditional savings of EUR 1.5 billion. That's what the government wants, isn't it? After all, the government has made an arrangement to abandon these conditional savings. And it is precisely because of the fact that, if such a social pact is created with these objectives, it will strengthen our competitiveness, it will increase employment and thus strengthen our financial base, so that these additional adjustment measures are not needed. I mean, this is the logic of the government. They want to give them up. What's the problem? When you accuse people of being taken from low incomes, from those who are not working on social security, the fairness of the whole social contract is precisely that, in other words, we should also participate;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u126	Mr President! This is where the problem of logic is on your side. The starting point for the negotiations is that we should go on an equal footing in the negotiations. Now, an external third party has announced that you must implement this agreement: a 5% reduction in wages — or a 100-hour increase in working time — or thus a painful saving for families with children, pensioners and the unemployed. This is the kind of ball-kicking you into the other half of the field before you start negotiating in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u128	Mr President! If I do not remember quite correctly, then I recalled the previous recession from the early 1990s, when — I wonder if I remember wrong then — some people said that a general strike was going to take place. And then was it the same group who said that when people try to get internal devaluation in Finland, that will not happen. This is what I meant in that interview with the Helsingin Sanomat.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u129	Mr President! Once upon a time, I too have been able to play football in the chick league, but I think it's been over 30 years, but then we played football so that the situation was a fifty-fifty — a fair start — and the middle line started. It is now a matter of concern that this social pact is turning into a blackmail screw in which the government is already taking sides with the other side, and in this regard it is not possible to play such a judicial game, in which the government takes such a strong position in advance on how to achieve a social agreement. It is therefore reprehensible that employees are the only ones who are also involved in the social pact, so that they are involved in the voluntary work, but that employers must also have a stricter package. In that respect, I believe that the SDP's offer to moderately withdraw this blackmail screw and the open table, to leave the centre of the football field to give birth to this social pact, is a fair, humble and fair request, and it is worth considering, with two ministers here in the Chamber, that this can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u130	Mr President! Perhaps a summary of this is that when you listen to the people of the United States, you can see that they are very pleased.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u133	Madam President! The Government Programme has defined, calculated, a package of EUR 10 billion: a package with 4 billion structural changes, 1 billion for the reduction of municipal tasks. With these Government Programme entries, the Ministry of Finance estimates that social welfare reform and its financial reforms are possible and, in a credible way, there are the conditions to generate a pot of EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u136	Madam President! As far as this social agreement is concerned, the negotiating situation is already completely unbalanced. The government has set the specs and a tight schedule, and even those responsible have been nailed. If, for one reason or another, this social agreement were not to arise, the government could say that, unfortunately, we are going to have to cut because the Ay movement did not yield to the social agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u139	Mr President! All of us in this Chamber want Finland's economy to grow and employment to improve. All economic experts, at least those who have been publicly present, are convinced that if we were able to reduce our unit labour costs by around 5% in this social agreement, it would contribute to economic growth and employment. If you claim that it would not do so, please tell this Chamber the economic research institute or the economic expert on which you base your claim, because everyone I have seen has said that in the longer term this type of agreement would specifically support economic growth and employment. Well, what does this require or wait for? It is expected that those who have a job will be prepared to do a little more work. In my opinion, this is a reasonable hope, and when it comes to a good outcome, this should be supported by all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u140	Mr President! In my opinion, this debate does reveal two wonderful facts with a rather substantial hand. The second relates to this social agreement, which does not get away with it. I see that you have already chosen your side, because here a Member of Parliament just shouted that employees should be involved — but what about employers? I think it is quite incredible if the side has already been so strongly elected in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and there is room for criticism here too, and I really hope that this group of employees will see this, because we are not in favour of such a social agreement, which is already on the other side. But it is clear that this country needs a culture of long-term reconciliation, and now the government is helping to scrap it. You have to be careful. Then I say to Minister Ruhula: I have always appreciated you and I will continue to appreciate you, but please look at these old figures as well, namely we have been jamming these social figures for quite a long time. And, yes, my shock was great when I saw that the zeroes had appeared after $300 million quite a haughty crowd. To prevent this from becoming a major problem, it is worth relying on that parliamentary work as well. Surely, President, it is a good idea to say the old wisdom of Abraham Lincoln, which says that all people can be fooled for a while and some people can be fooled all the time, but not all people can be fooled all the time. It is very important that these issues are on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u141	Mr President! While Mr Zyskowicz here is now going behind the back of the financial experts and saying that there is only one way to act and conclude this agreement,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u144	Madam President! Because of bad acoustics, I didn't hear who you were quoting, but I'm sure some financial expert. I have said that tell the economic expert or the economic research institute in Finland or abroad who would disagree that a reduction in unit labour costs of 5% will improve our economic growth and employment. Who disagrees with this? Tell me. I didn't hear who you were quoting, but at least he didn't seem to disagree with that quote. And when that is the case, why not do this? That's why you're telling me when there's a blackmail package. But that's what we all want to get rid of. Is that why you think it is too much to ask that those who are working should also take part in these efforts by extending their working hours a little bit? Is that too much to ask? Hundreds of thousands have lost their jobs. Is it too much to ask that working Finns also take part in these joint efforts?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u145	Mr Zyskowicz has developed his own economic doctrine, which is called improving competitiveness by lowering wages or extending working hours. I don't know what economic theory this is based on. There are, in particular, an extremely large number of factors in competitiveness, one of which is to use the ideas and skills of the entire staff to improve productivity. Inventions will be made that will enable better results to be achieved without wage reductions. Has Mr Zyskowicz studied such economics as to say that what is one expense, the salary, is another’s entry or purchase? Have you calculated how much this 5% wage bill cuts domestic demand and how much unemployment it brings? No, no, no, no. How do you base this 5% increase in working time on 100 hours a year? How do you justify it to those who are currently unemployed? What about those who work part-time but don't get the extra hours they want? What about those young people who have zero contracts that do not get an hour in advance to know how much work they have to do in the week?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u146	Mr President! I certainly hope that Mr Zyskowicz will at some point justify his own economic doctrine. As Mr Heinäluoma said, there are too many people who do not even have the right to work. But, President-in-Office, it has indeed been said many times and suspected that we would not be in favour of a social pact. We will support it when it is called a social pact. This model, which the government now offers, is called a social dictation. So it is dictated that if you do not cut your wages, do a longer working day, we will cut even more from small people. On the other hand, if you cut your wages, you will work a little longer hours, and we will give tax reductions to everyone. And it is also interesting that the well-earned are once again gaining in this equation. This is where Zyskowicz asked if everyone could take part. I am asking you, Mr Zyskowicz, I am asking the ministers of the centre, especially because if you have the most opinion here since last autumn, when you made an alternative budget: why can we not, through tax solutions, make sure that everyone participates in the volunteers? Here Prime Minister Sipilä admitted that there has been a deliberate move to ensure that the good people do not participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u147	Madam President! It is clear to the central ministers today, here and now, that we are committed to what has been agreed jointly in the Government Programme on economic policy and many other major issues. Then, as a comment to Mr Kiuru's speech, as long as I have been involved in this savota, these figures seem to vary depending, among other things, on which side of the table we are sitting here. I did not accidentally say in my previous speech about this money: we have relied on only one chapter of the Ministry of Finance, and only one, without any consideration as to whether the figures are correct or incorrect. As far as the figures of the STM are concerned, I probably have enough time to study the figures of the STM as well. And we must remember that it is a question of reforming both the organisation and the funding of social and health care, in which we are now looking for the three billion, and not just looking for it, but that the objective is quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u148	I will give the floor to Mr Kiuru, Mr Marin, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Leppä, and Mr Niikko had asked earlier. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u149	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Ruhula for his honesty in that, when we are talking about billions, not millions, as before, that is, hundreds of millions, the degree difference is quite large, and it is good that you are still getting to grips with these. But it is also not explained by the fact that cuts have also been planned on the social side, and, of course, at this point in time we cannot know which figures are inside and which are out in the actual assessment whether there are the same figures or the different figures, but I trust that this matter is in good hands and that you will catch up with the fact that you will sort these figures out. But then I am terribly concerned that, in this Chamber, one-eyed representatives of the government parties think that competitiveness comes from counting people's salaries, that it is the only way to create competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u152	Madam President! Congressman Zyskowicz here asked for logic. I, too, would like to ask for logic, the logic of the government. We have heard bleeding speeches here about how we do not want to save, but we have to do so now to bring the economy up. However, here in Appendix 5 to the Government Programme, it is stated that if economic growth turns out to be faster than anticipated, the revenue increased will be used in line with the government's decision to reduce indebtedness, to reduce taxation and to stimulate one-off growth. If these cuts are really so painful for you, so difficult, and you would not want to do them, then why would the potential growth and the increased income through it not be used to cancel these cuts? Somehow this logic now seems to me to be somewhat limping.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u153	Mr President! Of course, ladies and gentlemen, our competitiveness will be improved by the inventions and productivity that companies are constantly trying to achieve. But when we are talking here and now about the price competitiveness of Finnish companies, export companies, there are two questions: Does reducing unit labour costs by 5% improve our price competitiveness? Yes. What if our price competitiveness here and now improves, will it increase the growth of our economy and hence employment? Yes. Tell me, tell the economist who disagrees if you disagree. So when that is the case, we must strive for this. Well, what does it take for employees to get there? This requires that those who have a secure job or a job in general do a little more work without wage increases. I think it's reasonable. What do we say to the unemployed, Mr Heinäluoma? What we are saying is that when we do this, we will have growth and jobs and better employment opportunities for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u154	Madam Speaker! The question now, of course, is how we are reforming this Finland. It cannot just be reformed by the government; it needs all the parties in this country, all the parties, the key social partners. It's obvious. But then: now that this social agreement is one element and a new approach has been raised, there is actually no such agreement, not even a proposal. If you have it in your hands, tell me and show me where it is. That's still not the deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u155	We're talking in the light of the information you're telling us. We do not know what you have had with the social partners. We rely on public information, plus what you're telling us here. Mr Zyskowicz has made a point in which he calls for a 5% reduction in wages or a 5% increase in working time. — That is what you have been using here, many and numerous. Come on. Are you disputing what you said, as did Saint Peter three times? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u156	Mr President! However, this government is able to take difficult decisions, unlike the previous government, which did not make any decisions of any kind, and the opposition is currently representing this group. I wonder, however, how the Social Democrats here deny that they themselves have also made these cuts, which they have just criticised the government for. In your own alternative budget, you yourself suggested, among other things, that, through the restructuring of social security, 250 million would have cut social aid. Secondly, you would have cut EUR 270 million from the second level and so on. Everything did fit in until the Regent House negotiations on these matters, but then, when the opposition came into play, the picture was reversed, as if you yourself had not made cuts. The government has to make difficult decisions. It is now important that the opposition also participates in the creation of this social pact. It is not right for you to be happy to just knock out this social pact on the pretext that this additional alternative measure is a blackmail list. This is the openness of the government to tell us what it will lead to if there is no social pact. Stop the hurtfulness and get on with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u157	Madam President! When I say that the social pact affects everyone, it affects everyone. And I would like to thank Mr Heinäluoto for bringing up the farmers. One-fifth of the income has been taken away from farmers, one-fifth of the income. It is quite an indication of what is happening in this world and what kind of world we live in. One-fifth out of income. What other group of people has the fifth of their income left, I'm just asking? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u160	I thank Mr Leppää for his reply, which was very honest. He said that he was not prepared to propose a 5% cut in income to the farmer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u163	Mr President! This debate is quite halting, because the further it goes, the more government parties here will recognise that this is the case. They say we're in the same boat, but on the other hand, only some are wearing life jackets. Currently life jackets Then, Mr President, I would like to ask you this question when, in this speech, for example, Mrs Niikko said so much that everything is well in this situation. At least on Sunday, I thought very much about it when Mr Lindström himself admitted that this basic point of departure on this issue, which is called the Social Pact — which I think is a social dictate — is very unbalanced. That's where all the blackmail is directed at the employee side. There, as a follow-up, a small person suffers, families with children suffer, unemployed people suffer, pensioners suffer. Where fairness was asked by Minister Lindström this weekend. The only little confusion, perhaps, was that today he seemed to have already settled his statement a little bit. I'm sure you've spoken to Mr. Soin and Mr. Niiko.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u164	Mr President! I think it has been very fruitful to have this debate, because it is beginning to become clear here that the social pact does not involve the people who are more part of the employers' camp, and I think this has been a very valuable sign that the parties have already been elected in advance before the whole social pact is even being given birth. I also found it valuable that Leppä took into account the fact that domestic food producers have long been outnumbered. But there is only a good example of the fact that employees too have lived on the surface of zero for the last few years since the financial tsunami hit us, and it tells us that we have to take our own action to get everyone involved. If someone already has a green flag in a situation where there is no need to participate for any reason or reason that has already been involved earlier, it now leads to a part of the crowd being out, and it is not a social agreement where everyone plays from the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u165	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u166	Mr President, Fru talman! I have to go back to this economic doctrine of Mr Zyskowicz, because it is so important in this social climate. Mr Zyskowicz, you overlook the importance of trust for positive economic development. For example, the fact that we have a high credit rating in Finland is one of the key arguments and the reason is that Finland is widely regarded as a stable negotiating society. When Mr Ojala-Niemelä said to you in the recent debate that you are blackmailing, and if these blackmails are not allowed, you will afterwards blame the ay movement for these cuts, you, Mr Zyskowicz, shouted: 'That is right!' And when I leave this booth, I will go and take this record and put it away, because it is one of today’s news. You have told in advance to whom you have outsourced these operations and who you will blame for them. But, Mr President, of course we all hope that the economy will rise and unemployment can be reduced. The good thing about it, of course, is the fact that we know that if the employment rate is raised by a percentage, it will have an impact of EUR 1 billion on the state economy in a positive sense, and it should, of course, encourage us all to promote all those projects that can strengthen the economy and boost employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u169	Mr President! When Parliament has not yet formally elected the chairman of the committee, I shall stick to my role as Members of the European Parliament and deal with other issues at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u172	Honorable Speaker! Unfortunately, the SDP's financial experts have already left here, but when Mr Lindtman has just announced these SDP's economic guidelines widely, I have taken a measure to send the SDP's electoral programme and financial guidelines to the calculation service of the Parliament. It gave me an answer that goes in this direction: reforms have been presented in such a general way that the cost impact cannot be reduced. In other words, this declaration by the SDP on how their economic programme, how their election programme would have turned the Finnish economy into an upturn, how debt would have been broken, is completely empty, completely stupid. Well, how can we now think about what kind of policy the SDP actually has pursued? Let us look at these previous decisions that the SDP has made in the government and what the effects have been. Three years went by without economic growth, unemployment grew, export competitiveness weakened, the current account went down to zero, central government debt reached record levels. The SDP tracks are dark and dark-talking. As far as I can see, economic growth in this line of the SDP would have been very weak, indebtedness would have continued, reforms would not have been achieved, unemployment and the competitiveness of exports would have been further reduced, and yet the SDP would have carried out the same index cuts that the government is going to make now, and then another main focus would have had training. Now we see the situation in which Finland is and lies. The Government Programme has been drawn up in such a way that an adjustment programme, a reform programme and an investment programme are implemented at the same time. With regard to the adjustment programme, competitiveness will be improved, we will no longer be able to live as a debt, and unit labour costs will have to be reduced, and the easiest way of doing so will be through this social pact. With regard to the reform programme, these major reforms, the social and municipal reforms, must be brought to an end. Public activities need to be strengthened, digitalisation needs to be increased and the overall productivity of society increased. We can no longer accept that the productivity of our society will not increase, as it has not increased since 2008. With regard to the betting programme, these investments in the road are good. Appropriate investment must be made in the competitiveness of exports, which means that we would have to make an export recovery package of some kind. The investment programme must be carefully refined, especially now that the OECD has also dropped GDP growth forecasts in the global economy today. In other words, we must somehow be able to compete against the rest of the world and increase our own productivity and GDP now that there is weak growth elsewhere. As far as this vision of the Government Programme is concerned, this vision, which can be found on the first page of the Government Programme, is generally accepted. There has been no criticism from the opposition about this vision. In other words, this shows that the opposition parties have accepted these key support legs of the Government Programme: well-being, employment, learning, the bioeconomy and policies. Then one of the key points is that the situation picture is generally accepted. Finland is in a difficult position, we can no longer live as a debt. Then there are just a few comments on this government programme. This will increase the freedom of citizens in the future, but there will also be greater responsibility. We increase trust and respect in society. We'll work things out together and we'll regulate less in the future. The individual's responsibility for his community is to grow. No one in society should be left alone, no one should be bullied.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u173	Mr President! First of all, the election program for Finns must also be sent to the Parliamentary Information Office for calculation, and then more detailed figures can be obtained from there. Do you think there are halves of the EU membership fee and other things that had been said there in the electoral programme? After all, it has become clear that this government programme is full of fine words, less people being guided by decisions on equality. One of the most important points I would like to draw attention to, which was a little out of the tooth during the last period, was the strong demand of Finns and the city centre to cancel, for example, child supplement cuts of EUR 7. You announced before the elections that if you go to the government, you will change this decision, that EUR 7 will be returned immediately. What, then, does this government program have for families with children? There are child supplements being cut, index increases for child supplements completely removed, which means a loss of EUR 80 million over four years for families with children. When this child allowance cut was EUR 7 with a child allowance of EUR 60 million, then you will add another EUR 20 million on top of this previous government decision. However, you promised that if you were to be held accountable to the government, you would dissolve the decision taken by the previous government. What happened? A perfect turnaround, as in everything else, when comparing your election program with the decisions of this government programme. The second question is, then, this unfair cut in favour of pensioners. Yesterday I received more than one e-mail and had a conversation with one of the pensioners. He was a pensioner living in Kurika who had a monthly pension of EUR 1245. He was very disappointed with this abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners because when he had a small pension, he now received housing allowance of EUR 300 per month, and after this surgery his housing allowance is EUR 165. Her pension will be reduced by EUR 135, which means a 15% reduction in her monthly pension, that is, the available money. In addition, this cutting of medical benefits, increasing responsibilities, drives Finnish low-income pensioners into distress. We have 1200,000 pensioners. Of these, between 700000 and 800000 receive a monthly pension of between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500, between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500 for nearly 800000 Finnish pensioners, and their income will be reduced when, at the same time, people in the best income category do not participate in these projects at all except by recreational boat tax or user charge or motorcycling fee. Otherwise, they'll be able to survive this spree without any extra burden. Is this fair? Not in the opinion of our Social Democrats. We would have liked to have increased taxation for those who earn more than 70,000 a year by 2% so that we could have avoided these cuts. Today and during the weekend there will be 3000 pensioners from the Pensions Federation meeting in Seinäjoki, and I believe that the message from there to the city centre is very lost. I know that already there is a call for these cuts to the smallest pensions to be phased out. It is then up to the government to react to it. As far as this social contract is concerned, I have a long history of work, I have been in the Ay movement for a long time. I have served as vice-president of our union, labour market negotiator, chief shop steward, shop steward of my own trade department, shop steward of 200 men for ten years. I have been marching through the corridors of the Labour Market Institute, negotiating with the national mediator that an agreement has been reached. We have had good cooperation with the employer. I haven't been on strike a day, even though there were such threats, but we always found each other and through negotiation we reached a good conclusion for both of us. I just sensed from the way this social pact went through that there are very similar elements to those of the early 1990s, when the Ahon-Vinanen government announced cuts in unemployment security, including the elimination of universality and there were many other cuts. Then what happened? There was a social crisis. I was also at the Senate Square, there were 50,000 workers from the various trade union federations to express their opinion on unilateral cuts, which were then withdrawn because of the threat of a general strike. I would not like to see Finland in this situation, where Finland is now, driven by our Sipilä Government into the same situation that was then in 1991. I am in favour of a social pact, as is the case with the Social Democrats in general. On an equal basis, as I have in my working life conducted these negotiations, employers and employees meet together. There are no precedents that if you do not do this, we will do this. That is perhaps how we will get this society into a better economic situation over the next few years. I would now like to say to you, who are seeking this 5% increase in working time, that you have completely forgotten that we are in the process of a pension reform which will increase by more than 3000 hours the working lives of workers who have to continue to work at 65, which is more than this 5% increase in working time alone. It is coming to Parliament, and you will not be quoting it. This will in a way improve competitiveness, and we have all agreed on this during the last parliamentary term. I would like to see this matter, given that we have now received many petitions, set out in a way at the beginning and agree on this social agreement in a common and balanced way, because I think that is what we need. Minister Vehviläinen left, but the good thing about this government programme is this dismantling of standards. That has not yet been mentioned here at all. I am in favour of dismantling standards. There is a clear need for a complete review and massive dismantling of standards, particularly in construction and enterprise. If a fur farmer who expands his fur yard is subjected to an environmental permit treatment that lasts between 1.5 and 2 years and pays him between 7000 and 9000 euro, this is completely incomprehensible. Such decisions must be taken, which are extensions and some additions, by the decision of its municipality of construction control and not in any case after a separate two-year examination. But I would like to thank the government for that, and if Mr Vehviläinen had still been present, who is now in charge of this, I would have asked him what measures he intends to take without delay to get rid of these standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u174	Mr President! Mr Wallin concluded his speech with thanks, which has been very rare in the opposition. I thank you for that. Realistic speeches and less realistic speeches have been heard here. As a general rule, when these reprehensible speeches have been listened to, I look forward to the opposition's alternative budget and the related adjustment list. So there have been criticisms of these unfortunate surgeries, and I do not overlook their unhappiness in any way. They will have to be made, otherwise the Greek road will be ahead. The overall tax rate cannot be increased because otherwise exports and trade, economic growth, would be completely halted, so cuts must be made. That is what I look forward to hearing from the opposition. The amount of adjustment is enormous. At this point, it should be pointed out that it would not be so big if we had acted responsibly in the last period, depending on the situation we are facing. Last season's government has forced major cuts in this period's government, this government. They're not nice, and they hurt a little bit in everyone. What, then, is the subject of these surgeries? A balance must be struck between social expenditure and income, and when taxes are a little difficult to raise, then it is a cut. Well, what are the surgeries made of? It's a social thing. Then it is quite clear that cuts are made for those who use the services of society. It is, in itself, fair, but it is very different in terms of behaviour in the social classes. Speaking of this tax rate, I have already pointed out that we raised this Wahlroos tax in our alternative budget in the past period, and then, among other things, it was barked up by the demars that it did not work. And strangely, in the next season it came down a little watered down, but it came up as a government idea and is still in force as a solidarity tax. As a whole, we still have a common picture of the situation and we have established these levels of taxation and so on. There are a number of other answers to the Government’s confessional questions, and the opposition has generally accepted all of them. This will take a bit of impetus from the opposition, from here the bottom will fail. For some, this debate has seemed to be such that the government's paper has been familiarized with through media coverage, and, if we are to be honest, the media has in fact quite vehemently reported on this government programme, very unilaterally, only by intervention. It has not paid proper attention to our investment package, for example, how much work it produces and how much it corrects, for example, the debt of repair on our roads, which would otherwise have to be paid to our children. In fact, when roads are put and repaired into basic bus maintenance, it is also a saving measure. So the media has acted unilaterally. I fear that media coverage and opposition speeches will lead to the conclusion that not everyone, at least not the public, has a realistic picture of this government programme. For example, we are talking about this abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners. Housing allowance for pensioners does not disappear altogether. This system of ours will be abolished and there is only one system, that is, subsidies will not be abolished. They'll be equal to everyone else. This is an unfortunate operation, and I do not deny it, but you can deduce or get the wrong impression from the news that the whole aid will disappear altogether. Mr President! They've also asked for an image. We are feared, what is the image of Finland around the world, what kind of country we are. This is influenced by the media, the opposition, all of us. By our actions, by our own words, all of us can influence what is an image of the world. So let's not just bring up the bad side, let's not just do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, The same applies not only to this image, but also to the basis on which we have a social pact or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u175	Madam President! The most important thing would be to get growth started quickly. The qualifiers proposed in the Government Programme are certainly unilateral or at least domestic decisions, but so could growth. The two components most rapidly affect growth, which, of course, have a lot of details. How much work we do — that is where the Finns are no longer among the busiest. We can start the extra work quite quickly, certainly within a few months, if we want to. Every month we owe some 500 million, which is an embarrassing amount. The second element is taxation, above all capital taxation. Will Finnish capital remain in Finland and will foreign capital enter Finland? Capital at the moment is extremely cheap, I do not remember it ever being so cheap in my own lifetime, at least numerically, the capital is at almost zero interest. It may be that there have been times when inflation has been higher than interest rates, when inflation has actually eaten up capital and thus it has been advantageous to use it. In fact, in the mid-1990s, when Nokia’s success created a phenomenon in society that all the people who saw Nokia’s growth, that is, the whole of Finland, had to become involved, it spread to various sectors in the negotiations on the labour market, the TES and other agreements also to the public sector, which is not really competitive at all. As a result, when Nokia’s legend as a mobile phone manufacturer began to fade from 2004 to 2005, this hangover seems to last for ten years before we can adapt to the fact that such a world-leading, fastest growing industrial company is not in Finnish hands and does not generate significant tax revenues for the Finnish state. So competitiveness is affected by the number of hours worked, of course productivity. Productivity is slowly increasing as a single measure, but it is also indirectly affected by the number of hours worked, because more time is available to improve productivity and product development. But we also have internal money, that is, part of the money for work in poor use. Overall, there are nearly 190 billion of them, of which 100 billion are currently supporting the economy of other countries. We have borrowed it, of which at least 50 billion could very well be the capital provider of domestic business. We often refer to it in Finland, and we are certainly proud of it, that we are a stable, stable country on a global scale, but the World Economic Forum's research, in which Finns are doing very well, has not been in the past and is obviously not in a very strong correlation with economic growth in the future. In fact, when it was studied at Aalto University, the correlation was zero, in other words, it does not predict anything about the future. And if you look at the last 20 years, then you should ask yourself why the economy does not grow in Finland, since the number of employer companies has not increased in 20 years. Instead, 150,000 self-employed persons have become self-employed and there is clearly one factor involved in the risks associated with employment relations and the risk of bankruptcy. Bankruptcy legislation is likely to be so strict in Finland that it prevents a significant number of companies from starting up. There is a slight reduction in the current government programme, a partial improvement in the so-called distribution of income to the Swedish model, but it has clearly been made even more skilful in Sweden. Taxation: When the Estonian tax model is used in neighbouring Estonia, in the previous recession, Finland introduced an avoir fiscal, a corporate tax credit system, which in a few months made business start at a completely different pace than in the past, a very high degree of progress. The tax revenue of the State also increased fourfold in the case of corporation tax, although the VM indicated in advance that the tax revenue would decrease. I am personally concerned about whether the measures in the Government Programme are sufficient to improve matters that are essential to the competitiveness of export companies. I suspect that in two years' time we will have to improve the conditions for action in order to do better on the German market and to make the trade balance positive again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u176	Mr President! Actually, at this point, I won't talk long. I repeat two questions raised by the Social Democrats and to which neither of us have received a clear answer. The second is whether the government could not now consider that, if we all believe that a social agreement of some kind is needed, these blackmail elements would be abandoned, this blackmailing bolt would be abandoned. That is what our party chairmen, Mr Lindtman and Mr Rinne, have asked many times, and it is regrettable that there has actually been no answer to this, except today in the Chamber, that this mentality is quite right, that it is being blackmailed and threatened, as was the case with Mr Zyskowicz's speech today, for example, and that we can conclude from it whose handwriting it is and whose interests it is, then, the whole package. I would like to reiterate here that I think it is rather adversarial that this weekend the Finnish Minister for Labour also acknowledged this and said that this particular package of threats is not balanced or otherwise the package that has been put in place. He had the backbone of that weekend to bring it out and question it. Of course, I appreciated it very much, and today was somewhat confused by the fact that he now did not repeat this similar point of view. But this is an important question. It is a question that if we want results through mutual agreement, then it must be a matter of agreement. It can't be a dictation. The term "agreement" refers to the word "comply",and when agreed,all parties shall have equal starting points. And if we want the results, why on earth should we be so unpsychological that we go on this line already, that if you don't like oatmeal, then you come and put it down your throat? Unfortunately, we have heard such statements and I am really concerned that this spirit of cooperation is not being taken seriously. President! The second question that we have asked a great deal about and which should be asked persistently in the future is whether the government could now think again about this fair burden-sharing. The right principle is repeated here: everyone participates in the voluntary work. But a wise society — and a just society — works in such a way that the little person actually gets a little easier and who can afford to participate more. I cannot accept saying that everyone is in the same boat and this applies to us all, and in fact only some are in life jackets. It has been admitted here, down to the Prime Minister, that these blackmail and cutbacks do not apply to the most well-off, the most well-off. It would have been possible to do so through a fair tax solution, where the richest people would receive a little more tax, just as Archbishop Mäkinen also hoped for. He said that there was a fair way of doing this through taxation. Society does not live by charity alone, but by fair decisions. And I really hope now that the government will be able to consider these proposals on tax policy in the autumn, if we decide together that the good-for-nothing will also be involved in these efforts, bearing this burden too, because it cannot be right that the small pensioner with very low incomes, concern for daily income, concern for the cost of medicines, pay for everything and at the same time say that the neighbour, the mountain counselor over there, does not compromise. Of course, it was quite interesting to see that today Terho, the Group Chairman of the Finns Party, came up with one thing that he would use to put these mountain counselors on account, and that was cutting their housing allowance. I can now say, although the representative is not present, that mountain advisers do not receive the housing allowance, but are provided by the most low-income pensioners, from whom now the centre-run bourgeois government is cutting 125 million, as well as by families with children, unemployed people, students and so on. In other words, these value choices are not fair in this respect, and I would therefore repeat this second question and perhaps appeal to the ministers and the centre on the ground if you could still consider changing this tax solution so that those with higher incomes will also take part in these joint efforts. Now it is mainly the millions of heirs who receive tax reductions, and I cannot understand this choice of values. President! To this end, I was just looking at these last season's opinions, and here is the intermediate issue left by the centre of inequality and the livelihood of the low-income. Among other things, it says: "Police always has alternatives. In times of difficulty, care must primarily be taken of the most vulnerable." It says in Tuomo Puumala’s group statement: “Even though the country is common, two different realities are emerging for us — Finland of the poor and the rich.” It is worth getting to know both sides; he is calling for this in his own speech. And in that respect it seems rather difficult to see that this same party is now the main government party and yet has been aware of these problems during the last period, but apparently this period then this awareness will no longer take place. In this last period, the Centre also knew the answer to this question as to how to deal with this issue. The Centre says there: "Discrimination, however, is not a natural law. It can be influenced by tax decisions." So last season, the centre knew that inequality could be affected by tax decisions. In this period, these tax decisions are not wanted to be taken but a conscious choice has been made that the good people are not affected by this joint venture. President! These two things. I would like to see these discussed, and I would also like to see a new reflection from ministers and government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u177	Madam President! In this Chamber, it is quite easy to learn these government policies and speeches when you have listened to those statements by the opposition. The city centre was probably a pretty peaceful opposition partner last time. It was not quite as fast as it was at our own disposal, and perhaps we were on the point. Somehow, even this acoustics in the hall make it that not all of your comments to the back can be heard from under that box. With regard to the government of Juha Sipilä, you can immediately thank this for the fact that these government parties quickly became united in terms of the economy. Finland has a current account deficit, it is signed, our GDP is negative, it is signed, and central government finances are negative. From these three points of view, I would now like to make this speech and reflect on it. With regard to the current account deficit, this package of Juha Sipilä's Government has quite a lot of elements in the bioeconomy, for example, by which we would restrict imports of foreign energy to Finland and put our own energy production plants at a better pace, better use of forest energy, more use of bioenergy, explore the potential of biodiesel, and from the other side then, by which we would limit imports. This is precisely where this coal-black energy policy led by the Greens of the previous government would now be turning into even coal-free Helsinki 2025, which is now perhaps already recognised by all other parties in this Parliament as the aim of increasing the share of domestic energy. Then, of course, we need research for it, we need a stronger licensing policy for it, we need entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship for it. So when, at the beginning of the last government period, the peat tax was raised and the support for the chipping was calculated, fortunately, it was corrected at the end. Now we are working on this definition of big wood with electricity. Let us hope that solutions can be found so that we have a more long-term policy, not a volatile policy, that is, Juha. In Sipilä’s government’s programme, we think a little of what goes to the next government. I must say that during the last period, however, this so-called Troll group, or a common vision of these energy objectives, was obtained and I hope they will. The second is this food production. I am really concerned about this, as has been pointed out here, that some 25% of agriculture has now left the revenue. There are many factors, such as trade in Russia and these, which means that there is a very strong penalty. Then again, this government will cut the agricultural subsidies there. There's a certain amount there. And if the social pact does not form, then the more will be cut from agricultural subsidies and domestic subsidies. It's just like this. But to the current account deficit: yes, we would just have to make more exports. Here are good united ideas from different parties, which will give us more work in Finland, more exports. In Pirkanmaa, for example, Tampere has had a very strong export centre and an export-driven place, and when Tampere exports are driven, the sub-contracting industry of the provinces also draws. It is very important that our big urban centres, where there is industry and other businesses, should be in a strong position to export and operate. Research is needed, business funding is also needed. The great thing is that, for the first time in a long time again, there is something to be offered to the SME sector and to small entrepreneurs, i.e. this business reduction, and also in many ways, for example, the reduction of red tape and related issues in the SME sector. The reduction of the employment thresholds and the reduction of the take-up of work will also have an impact. I hope that this will lead to more activity and more employment in the SME sector. This raising of the employment rate to 72% and employment, 110,000 new people, including a productivity jump of 5% — these are tough stories that we get to these and get to Finland, because there is the other side of this central government economy that almost 10 per cent of Finland's central government finances currently have unemployment costs, I think there are some 6 billion at the moment. Our budget is about 54.9 billion, let us go along this line. In other words, the better we get people to work, the less we will then have to spend money on unemployment costs on central government finances. We can use it for all other government services, including those of the weakest. A few questions came from this social pact. After all, when we enter into negotiations, all parties have objectives. There are objectives, and the social pact has now set x the objectives that have been set. There's no procedure. Well, some of the measures have been considered if things don't work out. I don't see anything amazing about it right now. Both sides have their own goals. The SDP has been there for many days, the state has given its own, and certainly during this summer they will become some sort of summary and, after negotiations, we will be able to get there. So I really hope that we can reach a social agreement and thus get a kick in the way of Finland. The dismantling of bureaucracy came under mention, but then one important aspect has been that the previous government cut the government's shares of municipalities by about 7 billion if I don't quite remember now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u182	Secretary Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u183	Mr President! Representative Viitanen still knows the art of provocation from a few years ago, but I am not going to provoke. But so much did I think about the debate on the question of inequality that happened last autumn, that I also remember myself speaking in which I quoted Ismo Alanko and his song, which sang that 'when Finland fell from the tree, everything happened suddenly, there was no pig or even a sack'. I feel that even in this Chamber we still have no common understanding of the situation picture and what the clock has hit. With this in mind, Mr Viitanen, I would also like to say to you that this situation of ours, which has come over the years — not only during the previous government but in the longer term — is so serious that we have no choice but to make major reforms, we also have to make the adjustments, make a whole that we can be sure that we can all be on hard ground by the 20th century. That's why there's these painful surgeries, too. I particularly understand from the point of view of individual people and groups of people that they are very difficult. But when I look at us, who are, however, socially aware people, I think that we have the responsibility to see the whole thing and to know and seek the solutions that will lead us from now on. That is what this government programme is all about. Here already in the previous speech, Mr Pirttilahti referred to this qualification of municipal tasks, and he pointed out that already during the previous parliamentary term the previous government wanted to intervene in them. I hope, Mr Viitanen and the partners, that we will be quick, and I will extend the hand of cooperation to you. Of the 200 MPs, 160 are also municipal decision-makers, which means that we are also taking those decisions in the municipalities to reduce these tasks and obligations. I have a statistics here with the figures for 2013. At that time there were 535 of these municipal tasks and there were almost a thousand obligations for municipalities. And, Mr Viitanen, when there were more than 50 more in the last two or three years, I think in that way that this is our common position so that we can make public finances work together. Here, in his own speech, Mrs Wall said that she was in favour of dismantling standards. Here, too, we can help companies to develop their own activities better, permit processes are moving more smoothly, construction, housing can be promoted, so we have a lot of work together to make life easier for people and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u184	Mr President! When it is said that we do not have a common picture here, that the opposition in some way would not, as it were, have a slight, unfortunately, arrogant hold on the part of the government... — — — — This is exactly where I was, Mr Heinäluoma, coming to this same thing. — I was also asking if the government had a common picture of the situation. I certainly raised the hat very strongly when the well-respected, long-standing Member of Parliament, Mr Kääriäinen, also spoke about whether this tax line should be reconsidered in the name of fairness. In my opinion, it was a fine assessment of the situation, in my opinion, from Mrs Kääriäinen, who is, indeed, in keeping with the situation in this respect. By the way, when the lowest incomes are cut off and the high incomes get away with it, the lowest incomes are also cut in that respect by purchasing power. That is also why this is not a very wise economic policy line, and quite a few economists have for a long time warned us about covetous cuts,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u185	Mr President! With Mr Vehviläinen, I would like to discuss the fact that it is understandable that we should be considering precisely how to adapt the economy, perhaps also in the context of this problem of municipal standards. But, of course, the other side is that standards have been created in general to protect the disadvantaged — old people, children, minorities and so on — and this is a very big and serious place to think about the fact that when standards are abolished, how can they be guaranteed equal and equal treatment for them? For a very long time, it has been a major challenge, for example, to achieve that quality everywhere in the care of the elderly in the same way and on an equal footing throughout the country, so perhaps in that sense, when considering these cuts, it would be particularly important to pay attention to the effectiveness of the control mechanisms in the social and health field, but also elsewhere, in order to have that low threshold of complaint or complaint — not necessarily in the judiciary — and to have the resources to operate the various mechanisms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u186	Mr President! I have to say to the Social Democrats that there have been very unreasonable speeches in this Chamber. Here, for example, Mrs Feldt-Ranta said that the government has thrown the idea of a welfare society into a bit of a scrap. You know very well that everything that is The Sipilä government does, it does, precisely because we want to save the Finnish welfare society. That is why the top of the government's policy is that we get a new job in Finland. You are well aware that new jobs, if they are to be created, will be created in the private sector. That is why we need to take action to make it worthwhile to work, to have a job, and to have a successful company hire more workers. That's the only way Finns get a job. I was very concerned about why you are so strongly opposed to these measures, which would enable work to be done in Finland, and I really hope that you will clarify your options. When I look at the calculations on which your options are based, it is on a very stupid basis. I would very much like you to answer the question that we have asked here many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u187	Mr President! I understand that this has already been said in the course of the day: for demars, those earlier statements are valid, they have not changed anything since the elections. So what was said before the elections and to the formation of the government is in force. That's where we'll find the options. If the new President and the Council of Presidents change Parliament's working methods so that the opposition can also present its own programme, I would be happy to do so. This is possible in the context of the budget, and I hope that this tradition will be maintained. Then the opposition will also have the opportunity to present its own programme. But Mr Biaudet, who also has previous ministerial experience, said a very important thing in this debate, and that is that when standards are abolished, there will certainly be standards that may be unnecessary, but then there will be standards that protect the most vulnerable and — the honourable people in the centre — that protect the availability of services to everyone throughout the country. This is a high risk when the Minister of Local Government talks about these different leisure trials, that the end result is that Finland will be unequaled and the services will be weakened. When we talk about savings and the government has now listed this library law as one of the sources of savings — that it is no longer valid in the whole country, you can break free from it — I ask: how can you achieve savings in the library without stopping the library? Could the new Minister of Local Government please respond?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u188	Mr President! First of all, as Mr Biaudet said, I too think that we should be very careful. Of course, some of the standards are due to the fact that they will ensure that our fundamental rights are implemented. That is quite clear. I don't suppose anyone thinks that I or someone else would think that it's completely free. Absolutely not. But when this library issue came up and the previous Minister of Culture is well aware of the content of the library law, it is now said in this way that "the task is statutory and budgetary. The municipality must organise the task, but the resources and scope of the task are at the discretion of the municipality". Mr Heinäluoma, this is how it is now, because the municipalities can decide for themselves how much they order new books. Unfortunately, many municipalities do not have any innovations, because the budget has been too small. Here I say again that, when there are a huge number of municipal decision-makers here, I also have to ask how much they trust themselves as municipal decision-makers. It cannot be that there is a certain view here and then, when you go to your local council, there is a difference of opinion. And I say yes that all this preparation must be done carefully and that it is precisely the implementation of fundamental rights that must be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u189	Madam President! That is why we have standards to protect those people whose own powers are not enough. But then the basic philosophy — and now for the second time today I fall into a perspective that I do not like. During the last parliamentary term, a law was passed which stated that EUR 270 million will be deducted from institutional care for the elderly. The decision was made in such a way that no provision was made for the municipalities. One of the central objectives of the entries in this government programme is that when something is laid down, they should also be included. And vice versa: the categorical deregulation so that this is broken, cut, stacked — it may be that even in such a situation we will still have to go through, through, into a pile. But the basic idea is that the municipalities should be free, and just as Minister Vehviläinen said, we 150 decision-makers should also be a little confident that the municipalities will be able to do it. This is a challenge for the municipalities to fulfil the promise that we will, when you give us a chance. This is a specific place in particular that the services are actually available throughout Finland and also for people who are not always satisfied with their own ability and understanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u190	Madam President! This is a very important debate, because when we start to break standards, we have to do it very carefully and carefully, so that the very people who need those standards the most do not get in trouble. It was also very clear from Mr Heinäluoto and Mr Biaudet that the risk is precisely that the most vulnerable will suffer. Although a large number of us are municipal decision-makers, we make wise decisions in our municipalities, we know that local government finances are also very tight right now and seem to be tightening up. Then we, as heads of state, must also see to it that we have a certain level when it comes to general civilisation. That is precisely why these library issues are important and, in some ways, they must also be managed at national level. But, Mr President, one more question. We are in a situation today where informal care is paid differently in different municipalities. It is a field where people are treated differently across Finland at the moment, and this is not a good thing. We should have a system to ensure fair treatment for all family carers in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u191	Mr President! Of course, this government's approach to the law that there is no need to comply with the law in relation to, among other things, library services has caused serious concern and debate about what this actually means. Concerns increase when you look at the statement made today by Minister of Culture Grahn-Laasonen from Helsingin Sanomat, in which he simply hopes that the municipalities will never enter into a debate that does not require a library. If the government admits how important the library facility is, the foundation for Finnish civilisation and equality is, why can't the government now state that library services must be maintained in order to ensure regional equality, that equality between people is guaranteed throughout the country? At the same time, can the government now commit itself to the idea of making the library, for example, subject to a charge? No one knows what these records of yours mean, and they become a big worry. At the same time, President-in-Office, we are still reforming the old library law. They are now asking the question of whether it should be now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u192	Madam President! The direct answer to the question is that there are a few plus points in this puma, which has quite a lot of minus marks, at the level of the informal care support system. And one plus is that family and family carers' holidays help them to cope — this is the argument at this level — and then the following: develop and extend the family and family carers' leave system, for which EUR 75 million is set aside. Here in the puma, in the midst of all the minuses, there is a record of the development of a family care support system and family care system. Then, as far as these uniform criteria are concerned, the journey will continue, until we reach what is possible, but the entry in the Government Programme will amount to EUR 75 million in these respects for the family carers to be able to cope better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u193	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u194	Mr President! The Government's tax policy guidelines are good: the overall tax rate will not increase during the parliamentary term. In general, the Government Programme promises reductions in income tax and tightening, especially in the case of harmful taxes. Every year, inflation checks are carried out on income tax. The focus of the reduction in labour taxation is on the reduction in labour income, which is mainly directed at low and middle incomes. The Government Programme's tax policies include a number of positive reforms for the owner. This is wise because Finland needs entrepreneurs and employers, and jobs are mainly created in SMEs. The long-term entrepreneurship reduction required by the Centre, together with Finnish Entrepreneurs, is widely implemented, taking into account all groups of entrepreneurs. Business and professional activities, agricultural and forestry operators, tax associations and partnerships are included. Even reindeer husbandry operators have been taken into account for the sake of equity. The new government takes into account all forms of enterprise, contrary to what was the case during the last parliamentary term. During the last period, relatively generous tax reductions were made for limited companies and other entities, but other forms of business were not taken into account. The tightening of the inheritance and gift tax scale by Katainen and Stubb's governments hindered generational exchanges. Now the scales must be restored to the level before the Katainen government. The Government wants to promote entrepreneurial forestry. The best way to do this is to increase the forest reduction, which is intended to reduce the purchase cost of trees, the natural reduction in forestry, from the sales income of wood. According to the studies, the share of the growing stock of the purchase costs of the forest holding is approximately 95 per cent. The amount of forest reduction recorded in the Government Programme could be increased by around EUR 20 million from the current 60% to the level corresponding to the cost of the forest. Increasing forest reduction would apply to those engaged in entrepreneurship-like forestry throughout Finland. The Government wants to make limited liability companies an even more attractive option. The transfer tax shall be abolished in situations where the trader, the professional or the agricultural and forestry operator transfers its immovable property in a change in the form of a company of a person or limited liability company. The transfer tax has been an obstacle to the limited liability of agriculture, its most significant tax cost. A normal change in the form of a company should not be hampered by an additional tax burden. It is also gratifying to note in the Government Programme that the right to deduct losses is changed so that losses from the source of income in the limited liability company can reduce the income from other sources of income. This is an important reform, since the wrong starting point for the income source system has been that the loss of the income source can only be deducted from the result of the same source of income. Mr President! The Government will shift the focus of road appropriations from building new routes to basic maintenance. This is the right way. The government's decision to invest in growth will also be determined to remove the ever-increasing repair debt on roads and bridges, which some estimate is around EUR 2.4 billion and will increase every year, if no action is taken, by around EUR 100 million. In the current parliamentary term, EUR 600 million will be allocated as a growth effort to reduce the repair debt on roads and roads. This is a good decision. Effective fairways are essential, in particular for the forestry industry and the rest of the industry. Mr President! I hope that a good solution will be found in the parliamentary working group set up for the whole last period of the social and health reform. There is also a wide-ranging reform of regional governance which requires a broad-based common vision.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u195	Madam President! This government program is a rescue ring for the welfare state. If someone can’t hold on to that rescue ring himself, he will be helped, but it would be good for everyone to stick to it. It is the case that we have to take radical, big measures which are quite painful for each of us, for some more, for some less, but they have to be done for our children. At least I don't have the guts to leave my children a debt burden and hardly anyone else. With this government programme, we will get exports going and the economy going up. It is certainly a prerequisite for a welfare state. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, I will not discuss it any further today, because it seems that in two days' time it has had enough of a story to thank you very much, which is a good thing. One element of welfare and the rule of law is internal and external security and justice. It is not often thought of how important they are, firstly from the point of view of tourism, of course, but also from the point of view of foreign investment. Nobody wants to come in here and invest if we don't have a safe and secure country. You have to take care of it. I will tell you more about it in a moment, and not only about criminal policy, but also about this part of the well-being, which is excellent in this government programme. But first let's take a look at this security issue. We are talking about overall security: external and internal security. It is no longer possible to distinguish them from each other in all respects. So there is overall security and it is gratifying that the government has taken it seriously. It is one of the few areas where additional funding has been provided: external security, internal security and justice. But that's the basis of everything. If we do not take care of them ourselves, it may one day be that someone else will come here to take care of them, i.e. they will be treated with style and honor. And as far as internal security is concerned, it has been ensured that this kind of traditional security is secured throughout the country, just by traditional means, but also through new technologies and, for example, through digitalisation. There is a need for new ways. This is how traditional security is done. But we have noted in the Government Programme also such a change in our security situation. There is talk of terrorist threats, multiple cyber attacks and so on, at worst, hybrid warfare. They too have been given serious attention and, for example, border security needs to be improved in these difficult times. And of course, when I mention cyber attacks, cybercrime also requires new measures, new tools absolutely. We cannot lull ourselves into the old, but must be a pioneer in this too, and that is why it is really great that the government is preparing a report on internal security by the end of May next year. The same is true of external security, but it is very important that these elements are linked together and seen if there are shortcomings and development targets and many other things there. Then let's go to a little criminal policy and justice. The aim is to speed up judicial processes and focus on the core tasks of the Court of Justice. We need to reduce processing times and assembly regulations and limit the right of appeal. In other words, the courts are doing the work they must do, without jeopardising the legal protection of the citizen. And it is quite clear that it is mentioned here, among other things, that there is an increase in the use of a penalty claim, that it is not increased in any criminal offence of assault but primarily in property-related crimes. Similarly, the emphasis on the status of victims is always the key project in the development of new legislation. The role of the victim of crime is always crucial. Similarly, penalties are imposed on a slightly fairer scale, including serious sexual offences against children, first-time rules and various other measures taken in the area of criminal policy. Among other things, risk assessments will be developed. These are really great changes that are coming. Mr President! Just a brief word about this part of the well-being. I'd say this is great. I would never have thought that one day the government programme would read: "A national programme for the promotion of mental health will be launched." It's right here. It also includes a suicide prevention program. It's great. It saves a lot of human suffering, but it also saves a lot of money on a fast schedule. That's great. That's the way it's supposed to be. In addition, the various organisations are now being raised to the status to which they belong. The organizations are doing a great job today. For the first time in the government program, we are talking about the use of an expert. It's all right. That's the way it's supposed to be. There are experts from all over Finland, for example in mental health matters, and they complement the work of health professionals. You do not have to have a health care professional in every place, but an experienced expert can support this treatment as a lay person can. These are great reforms. There is also much more here: increasing the exchange of information on children's and families' issues and also on low-threshold services and many other things. This part of well-being is a great part, and it helps, as I said, to grab on to those people who may not be able to do it themselves. All in all, however, changes need to be made, and this government programme contains a lot of radical changes. They are necessary and must now be implemented. If the situation picture changes here over the years and months, then it is convenient when this is a strategic government programme, that is, it can then be updated and not nailed to any nonsense.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u196	Mr President! It is a pity that the ex-President and former Minister Viitanen have left, because now would be a good medicine for their ears. Nothing happens without work and commitment to goals. We came to see that when the previous government acted when nothing happened. Then, among other things, the Minister for Culture, Arhinmäki, lost his memory, and it still seems that memory is returning to pieces as I listened to his line speech yesterday from the point of view of his party. When the reform is forgotten for a long time, it will put you in the way of surgery. It has to be said that the various mistakes since accession to the European Union and the collapse of the European economy as a whole less than ten years ago have also contributed to the current situation. At the same time, the correction efforts have been impossible as the socialists cry out for more socialism, burdening society with what guarantee and increasing bureaucracy. Now we have to go through major reforms. Finland has only two options: either we reform ourselves, or someone else does it for us. Finland has become a country in danger of being subjected to an excessive deficit procedure and under the control of the Brussels budget. Do we want to keep our own affairs in our own hands and make the necessary decisions ourselves? We, the Finns, at least, want to. That is why, after the opposition period, we moved to the government to correct the situation in the country towards more sustainable development. With sustainable development, I am not referring here to the resilience of the planet, but to the fact that it is not possible to live beyond the indebtedness of funds from one year to the next, because it will be more difficult to carry out repairs. For example, in municipal mergers, five years of protection against dismissal, which accelerated the costs of public administration, even though the intention was quite different. For this and many other reasons, public administration is now at the highest level in Europe compared to GDP. Finland has lost its competitiveness and its debt to around EUR 100 billion at the end of this year. That is why competitiveness must be restored and debt stopped. Although this is self-evident, it is still a left-wing alliance, or at least Arhinmäki would take more debt. With this government programme, the situation will not be corrected in the moment, but gradually. Therefore, the agreed targets should be adhered to. It's a difficult situation, but we can't do any more debt to our kids. There are many painful actions, but also measures to improve the position of the most disadvantaged Finns. Similarly, bureaucracy is being dismantled in all sectors. Regarding the reduction of municipal tasks, the programme states, inter alia: "As part of the balancing of public finances, the government commits itself to reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities by EUR 1 billion. During the parliamentary term, the Government will not give municipalities any new tasks or obligations. If savings are made in the central government shares of municipalities, the Government will reduce the functions of municipalities in the same proportion." So the municipalities are given more power to decide more about their own affairs. Mr President! We Finns of Finland received some of the goals of the government program, and that is a good thing. The programme is, of course, a whole which should not be dealt with simply by removing a detail and at the same time forgetting the compensatory effect. Of course, it must be understood that there is a great deal of need here for volunteers, but I think it is more a question of the SDP's election defeat, which is now a great pity. But it is pointless to blame the Finns on it. The SDP has abandoned its ideology on its own. Mauno Koivisto, the head of the Bank of Finland, described the ideology of the socialists in his book "Linja's appeal" in 1968 as follows: "In a capitalist society, property gradually accumulates in one of ten, and when that happens, it becomes a proletariat,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u199	Mr President! The first thing we have to thank is that we have a functioning government like this in Finland, especially these three ministers for that and, of course, others. But here's an example of one's own life: When I was a little boy, I thought there was going to be money coming out of the sky, there was going to be a chest like that, just jerked around like this, and shared. But when I got older, I realized I had to take responsibility for life and get to work. I was probably a green left-winger like this at the time, screaming in every direction. But then it went away. At the moment, this opposition here creaks in the same way as such an old raspberry: every step when you went, so such a creak was heard. It's no use. We've got to go on a joint mission. It seems that the left still has such a remnant from the Soviets, where misery makes the system stand. This government is now making painful but fair decisions. For example, development aid, wind power subsidies and so on are good cuts. Of course, worse are such things than training cuts. In these, by the way, my personal opinion is that why only 300 million development aid was taken and 600 million training — that roll should have been reversed, 600 million development aid and 300 million training. But now that we're on the board, we'll bow down to it. Mr President! After the wars, we paid for the war. My dad used to make a punch of wood, but he had to put 20 cents on it, about 20 percent of the war compensation on every punch. Every single shot, without a front. And they paid the war compensation, and Finland left that postwar war and compensation and became a welfare state. We are now in a somewhat similar situation. Now we have to blow the coal together, and we will certainly get up — just as the war was raised and the compensations — from such a recession. It's not like we're just gonna start working. But it's the only thing that gets up. There's no other way. The depression of the early '90s was devalued. And the reason is simply that even then there was an excess of funds. Of course, there were other reasons. Now we have a single currency, a global world, and we do not have these opportunities. We have hanged ourselves in the euro, all over that place. Now the government corrects these mistakes, whether intentionally or unintentionally, but this is what is being done. Mr President! Only productive companies will invest and be able to employ, so this issue must be addressed first. In the export industry, business is starting to spin, and so on. It's gonna be the cake that's easy to share there, here, there. But if we cannot do these things, we will inevitably be faced with the situation in Greece. We do not even realize how bad Finland is. I think the government will understand that. We Finns are not like the traditional left-wing parties that put their hands in the pocket of a Finnish entrepreneur and guy and distribute money around the globe: development aid, irrational immigration policy and many kinds of support packages. And we do not want an expensive, pointless greenhouse where the booths and frogs of all the world are protected, even to such an extent that people are prevented from working and moving. If the opposition is genuinely concerned about people, there must also be a Tanzanian attitude there, not a policy for pensioners, the unemployed and other disadvantaged people. Mr President! We have a great government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u200	Mr. Speaker! The most important thing about this Sipilä government is to reform Finland. This is absolutely necessary, and in the debates before the elections and in the objectives of the various parties this was also very strongly highlighted. I therefore wonder why, in this communication debate on the government programme, this reform has been so poisonous and so difficult to accept, because we all know, however, that without change, without reform, including structural reforms, the adjustment measures, the necessary adjustment measures that the government is proposing will be much more challenging, much more difficult and much harder than if we take those adjustments and reforms at the same time. I therefore hope that the tone of the debate will at least change after that. I understand the need for this political rhetoric on this point, but the responsibility we all have, whether we are in the government party or the opposition, is behind and behind its reform. President! One of the things that is driving this reform forward is the entrepreneurial spirit and the fact that we are now giving freedom and the government are giving freedom to try, the freedoms to invest, the unnecessary regulation and the standard jungle that we have all created together over time. I don't think anyone has done it on purpose, but now we have no choice but to dismantle it. By regulating, we will not achieve economic growth or create jobs, as we all know. The fact that the government promises to introduce a reduction in entrepreneurial activity, which applies to all partnerships, is also a sign of entrepreneurial pro-entrepreneurship. This is a very good and welcome reform which will certainly encourage companies to take the path of growth and develop their activities and also to dare to employ new people. Of course, the dismantling of the administrative burden involves much more than just trying. Agriculture is, in particular, under a bureaucratic burden that exhausts people. It has become the number one of farmers and farmers in the jungle of obstacles to enterprise that farmers experience. That is why it is essential that we also be able to do that stripping of standards in that direction. President! I would like to mention one detail which I would like the new government to point out as soon as possible in this context of the norm, and that is the waiving of the requirement and payment of the temporary signposts. Why now? Because everyone who is in this house, who has used outdoor advertising in elections, has been allowed to put that election advertisement on the spot according to instructions, but when the same person, even though in this case the citizen Jari Leppä, puts his village event in the same spot where Jari Lehän had a parliamentary election advertisement, he has to apply for a separate permit from the Ely Centre and pay 150 euros for it. Ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the government, Minister Rehula, who is here to listen, I hope that this will be the first thing that will be immediately dismantled and sent out a message to Finnish civil society, that you have been listened to, that you will be trusted and that there will be no more unnecessary, flexible regulations and additional burdens on society, on association activities, on voluntary work, on voluntary work from now on. President! Finally, I am very pleased that the building regulations are being substantially amended and are also making it easier to build in rural areas, and that we have strongly recorded renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency, trade balance, emphasis on and improvement of the current account with our energy, our food production, in a very strong way in the government programme. Similarly, the fact that we want to ensure that agriculture, food production, and this parliamentary term are no longer subject to additional burdens is directly read in our government programme. Similarly — which costs nothing — we want to develop fairer competition law. All of this will strengthen our economy, our employment, our trade and exchange balances and also have a positive impact on the climate. And while transport projects are still being put on top of it, that considerable investment, the conditions for entrepreneurship are much better than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u201	Mr President! As far as Mr Leppa's idea of these demolition projects is concerned, it seemed like a very meaningful idea to be involved in this kind of sport, but it needs to be studied better what it contains, then you can handle it fairly. But on this government program: As a son of a working-class family — seven of us, and we are looking for food — I wondered what this would mean to the family that I had when I was little, such as driving down the services and punishing the poor by trampling on wages, and in my opinion, Finland will not be raised. Finland will only be raised with work, decent wages and a fair social policy that takes care of the disadvantaged. This government programme includes inequality. Payers are low-income, unemployed, sick, students and pensioners. The rich do not have to share in these efforts. The starting point of the programme seems to be the idea of an oversized public sector and that the employees of the municipality are supposed to be inefficient. Now, on the part of the municipality, there is a strong prospect of strengthening and right-wing discipline policy, result guidance, outsourcing, service dismantling and privatisation, which is covered as freedom of choice. This reduction in the role of municipalities means that jobs are being cut. In addition to cutting services, job losses are caused by, for example, reducing the size of personnel. We must remember that nearly 80% of municipal workers are women. Now they are directly affected by these cutbacks, and so often a low - paying woman becomes unemployed. Index increases in the central government shares of municipalities will be frozen and, at the same time, promised that the municipalities' tasks will be reduced accordingly. So the municipal people pay for this in their services. In the future, municipalities will decide independently how to organise services for theatres, libraries and sports facilities, youth and cultural activities, for example. Services will therefore be reduced, privatised and transferred to the third sector. Such a service shutdown programme, combined with the shockingly large cuts in government social security, is a sure way of increasing inequality and exclusion. I'm sure this is going to cost you a lot of money. Mr President! Minister, I come from a region where the rise in industry seems to be taking place, and hundreds of millions of euros of investment have gone into that region, yet there is still a very difficult employment and long-term unemployment situation. That is why we think that cutting employment appropriations is really short-sighted. This will reduce the capacity of municipalities to employ the long-term unemployed. The result is an increase in income support expenditure. Social employment is needed, and it is now up to society, and it is up to municipalities to take care of it. The need for money for employment, especially in these areas of restructuring, is urgent. Now the government has to provide additional regional funding in the budget for the management of long-term unemployment, and the allocation of this money, especially in the areas of restructuring, needs to be given more freedom to the regional authority. They will certainly have detailed information on the right priorities for which employment funds should be allocated. In addition to the unemployed, the government program is unreasonable for the sick. Sickness allowance is falling, customer fees and medical expenses are rising. As an unfortunate individual, the government will abolish the dietary allowance. This puts people with celiac disease in an unequal position, since their diet is the only existing medicine. Finally, I should like to comment on these infrastructure projects. There are positive aspects to the financing of infra-projects, since the cuts made by Stubb to basic bus maintenance are now being cancelled. Now these increased funds must also be allocated to improving the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry. For example, securing wood supply to the forest industry and improving tourism conditions are in the case of Eastern Finland and Northern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u202	Mr President! Prime Minister and good government! Warm congratulations to the new government and abundant The blessing and wisdom of the Father of Heaven for a new demanding task. I have carefully read the guidelines of the Government Programme, and I like its approach to the current state of Finland and to many problems. It has a reformative grip and seeks in particular to examine public sector policies: how, by cutting costs, we could deliver services better and in a timely manner. The best contribution of the Government Programme is its entrepreneurship component, which includes many good and worthwhile actions. They're like a direct Christian Democratic election entrepreneurship program. It has a good investment component that focuses on building and repairing roads and railways. It starts with the dismantling of bureaucracy and regulation. It boldly starts to try out new ways of providing services. The Youth Guarantee will be continued and cooperation with the third sector will be increased, good. Mr President! Juha Sipilä's first government programme focused much on expectations and hopes for a better future. The expectation value was, after all the discussion that had come out of Finland's new rise, that this government programme would make it possible to rise. We knew and were prepared that there would be cuts and that there would be sustainability deficits, but we did not expect the cuts to be most severe for those with low incomes, single-parent families, pensioners, long-term ills and the unemployed, especially since it was precisely the upper middle class that had indicated in advance in various studies that they were prepared to assume greater responsibility in these social fields. Mr President! The government should not think that we do not all want to be involved in these activities. Yes and yes, we do. We're here to save Finland. The question, however, is: In what way and at what price? At whose expense and with whose carrying capacity? Many leading politicians and experts have pointed out that the cuts in the last recession from families and low incomes and students were major mistakes, as their cuts are still being paid off. Now it seems that the Sipilä government will immediately choose and make the same mistakes again. The fact that it is the politicians who have been loudly accused of cutting the previous recession who are now doing the same cuts makes this very regrettable. Is it really the case that this government has no memory and no heart at all? Is it really the case that there is no other way to raise Finland than to empty the most low income and sick purses? I wouldn't wish for this. If this programme is implemented as it is, then basic security will be weakened, social inequality will increase and justice in the face of responsibility will not be achieved. Mr President! For example: When the programme outlines increasing the discretion of municipalities in organising services and eliminating regulation and standards, this may open the door to municipalities coming in short of money to reduce many services now based on recommendations, which then lead to increased costs in another area. This can also open the door to the fact that many small municipalities feel that they no longer have an obligation to provide some services, so that inequalities in municipalities and regions will increase in Finland. It has been studied: by increasing the autonomy of municipalities in the provision of services, it has significantly increased the inequality in the organisation of services. Mr President! It seems that the time has run out for the Government Programme and many things have been written in it without any thought being given to what many measures mean in practice and how they affect citizens and what cuts can cost in the future. Finland has always risen from distress when the people have turned to God with prayers. It is a familiar and safe way for us, as a nation, to ask for strength and wisdom in difficult times. I wonder if Finland will rise when it gets down on its knees. At least it would create a united nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u203	Mr President! Our land is on the watershed. The difficult economic situation in Finland can only be translated into growth through entrepreneurship, work and joint action. That is why Prime Minister Sipilä's first government and our co-legislators have the task of making entrepreneurship simpler and more employment and job-taking worthwhile. The policy of the new government to invest in strengthening companies, entrepreneurship and domestic ownership is just the right way forward. The aim is to improve the operating conditions of companies on the domestic market and to increase competitiveness through the strengthening of exports. The dismantling of different standards will facilitate both employment and the daily lives of entrepreneurs and every citizen. Education will be reformed in a direction that brings students and working life closer together. In particular, vocational training will be developed in line with the wishes of both students and employers regarding theoretical orientation towards practical learning together. The change will significantly increase the skills and employment opportunities of young people. This structural change will also bring savings to the education sector. Up to now, training in the workplace has been too expensive and time-consuming for entrepreneurs. It is good that the administrative and financial burden of apprenticeship training in particular will be reduced. This will make it possible to transfer the know-how of an entrepreneur to a young person more efficiently at a reasonable cost and ensure the availability of professionals in the sector in the future. Government tax policies also support entrepreneurship and employment. It is important, in view of the new growth, that no one's taxation should be further tightened. In particular, the situation of small entrepreneurs will be assisted by a reduction in the number of entrepreneurs. We will also make it possible to make a payment-based VAT statement so that companies will no longer have to operate as banks as payment periods are extended. Finally, a reduction in inheritance tax has been introduced in the Government Programme, which will facilitate further opportunities for family businesses. With the reduction of inheritance tax, the new generation of entrepreneurs is now given a better opportunity to develop activities, invest and recruit more employees. Mr. Speaker! The abolition of pay subsidies following the decisions of the previous government is currently creating particular difficulties in helping businesses, organisations and municipalities to find employment. Since the start-up money is also exhausted, start-up entrepreneurs will have to rely on loan money or potential savings in their lives. It is therefore important to decide as soon as possible that, when setting up a company, the unemployed person could receive his earnings-related unemployment allowance for a specified period of time. This cost-neutral change for the state would significantly help to create needed businesses and jobs around Finland. However, even this improvement does not help young graduates who have not yet received earnings-related daily allowance. Young people starting business are now in the middle because no start-up money is available. This group of interveners must also be taken into account as soon as possible during this Government term. Many income traps in social security and start-ups will need to be dismantled in the future. A basic income experiment has been recorded in the Government Programme. Basic income would significantly de-bureaucratise and make it easier to accept work. The model would also lower the threshold for starting a business. Once basic income has been secured through basic income, the company would also have the courage to invest more. Basic income should be tested in a compact area, where work and entrepreneurship would be encouraged instead of the current passive system. Kainuu already has experience of successful regional experiments, for example on the future social model. Finland will rise from the swamp only by working. We now need extraordinary cooperation, will and surrender to lift us up. In international terms, our high-level taxation can no longer be tightened, but the good people have to join Finland in other ways. The chairmen of the government parties have already agreed to do so with their cuts in ministerial salaries. As parliamentarians, we should also set an example. I therefore encourage the opposition and all of us to make proposals on how we, the elected representatives of the people themselves, are involved in economic activity. The Finnish troops are not led from behind with shouting, but in front of us on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u204	Mr President! Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme has a lot of good things, and I am very happy to work with the Government through, among other things, social welfare reform and basic income testing. The biggest problem with the Government Programme is the absurd cut-off line, which prevents in many ways the government's progressive projects aimed at increasing employment and entrepreneurship. By 2021, the government will seek to balance public finances with a reduction of EUR 4 billion, with conditional savings of EUR 1.5 billion still in the basket if the social partners do not agree to the blackmail of the government. For example, in violation of all electoral promises, training will be cut by EUR 600 million and social and health care services by EUR 450 million. In addition, consumer purchasing power will be weakened by index cuts of EUR 1 billion, and nature conservation and development cooperation will be driven down in practice. The whole problem can be summed up by the fact that the problem of debt is being solved by means that only increase the deficit and the degree of indebtedness. If efforts are made to control government debt by cutting budget expenditure, then public consumption is cut and therefore the tax base is reduced and unemployment is increased and the costs involved are increased. It is in the interests of both companies and industry as a whole that people have the opportunity to consume their products and services. The government says it puts work first in all its policies. With this cutting policy, the government puts unemployment first in all its policies. Mr President! The two biggest obstacles to growth and employment in the Finnish economy are weak domestic demand and a desperate shortage of investment. At present, the investment rate of companies is as low as it was at the time of the recession in 1994. We can talk about the actual investment depression. Even the substantial reduction in corporation tax, the consensus on wage moderation and zero interest rates have not helped. The most sensible thing in this situation is to create a growth momentum through projects which will in any case have to be carried out at a later stage. Now if you ever have to fix mold schools, roads and tracks. The status report of the built assets for 2013 estimated the renovation debt of the Finnish building stock to be between EUR 30 billion and EUR 50 billion. In turn, the repair debt for roads, railways and waterways amounts to approximately EUR 2.5 billion. The price tag grows every day. It should be borne in mind that these projects also finance themselves because of the increased employment rate and reduced income transfers. Let's talk about the so-called multiplier effect. In zero interest rate mode, that multiplier effect is particularly high. The EUR 1.6 billion infrastructure investment is a step in the necessary direction, but it will be offset by this cut of EUR 4 plus EUR 1.5 billion. The left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. Mr President! The government's economic policy is characterised by what is known as domestic thinking. The household can reduce its expenditure without affecting its income, but whenever the government cuts its expenditure it also cuts its income. It is also the task of the state not to make profits like a company, but to look after the well-being of people. The public sector does not compete with private sector jobs and businesses, but fills the labour supply gap they leave, creating in itself strong purchasing power for private sector products and services. I would like to ask: how far is Juha Sipilä prepared to take his Oy Suomi Ab project because there is no horizon in sight? Without economic repair, unemployment will only increase, the building stock and transport routes will fall into our hands, government indebtedness will only increase and deflation spirals will deepen. Instead of cutting lists, we need investment lists now if ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u205	Mr President! The born Government Programme enables the development of our society to be more experimental and active. The Government Programme aims to reduce red tape and eliminate over-regulation. The dismantling of day-to-day laws as one of the main objectives of the Government Programme is an important step towards a free, functional and economically sustainable society. The number of statutory tasks of municipalities has increased rapidly. Increased standards have increased the plight of local government finances and limited the leeway for decision-makers. The clear view of municipalities is that the legislation that binds them needs to be reduced as a matter of urgency. The Government Programme will significantly facilitate the role of municipalities and enable the development of services to meet the needs of residents. The financial and operational leeway of municipalities will be improved as statutory tasks are reduced and obligations renewed as set out in the Government Programme. Standards governing policies will be made more flexible, reporting obligations will be relaxed and control and inspection obligations will be reduced. The protection against dismissals from municipal mergers will also be abolished. Mr President! A record of the Government Programme that legislative changes are being prepared together with municipalities with everyday expertise and innovation capacity is very important. The freedom trial of the Government Programme also facilitates the development of efficient service production and practices to meet local needs. Mr President! The Government Programme creates excellent conditions for sound municipal finances and municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u206	Mr President! Even painful cuts affecting citizens have been highlighted by opposition parties. Less attention has been given to the good things of the government program. After all, there are a number of policy rationalizations in the programme. Some of them: improving the status of family carers, cutting party subsidies, raising the guaranteed pension, reducing the number of homeless persons, indexing income support, reducing the tax burden on low and medium incomes, dismantling standards, and all measures to make working and entrepreneurship more profitable. The programme also includes policy solutions for ecologically sustainable development. At EU level, we are also active in dealing with immigration issues, such as trafficking in human beings. This is particularly gratifying for me as a police officer who, in his work, has studied trafficking in human beings and has seen in practice the mechanism of reducing human dignity associated with it. The Government Programme continues. Migration must be controlled, and asylum application authorities' processes will be speeded up. Decisions and returns shall be made without delay and irregularities shall be combated. Since radicalisation of immigrant youth has already occurred in Finland, it is important to criminalise participation in organisations classified as terrorist organisations. I also refer to my work experience as the author of emigration proposals, among other things. I therefore see the Government Programme's approach to speed up the expulsion of people who have committed serious crimes, are repeat offenders or are dangerous to public order and security. The exchange of information between the authorities will be strengthened and the activities must be cross-sectoral. The risk of exclusion of migrant young people must be identified, and particular attention will be paid to the integration of uneducated immigrant women at home. With this we are promoting equality for the whole population, as Mrs Feldt-Ranta previously called for. Mr President! Despite the quick speeches made by the honourable members of the opposition, I cannot believe that anyone wishes to see the welfare society scrapped, to which our society will inevitably end up without breaking the cycle of debt. The basic principle of responsible policy is the identification of the facts, and our new government has been able to do well. The programme also follows the greetings of my elderly relatives to us MPs. During his long life, my war veteran and his wife have gone through the war and the times of the shortage and moved to Helsinki after work. Their regards: You cannot live as a debt for long, including Finland. Work is the most important thing, and no work should be discouraged. Our task is to enable jobs to be created through a policy that improves our international competitiveness. I also hope that we will have a wage and pension ceiling for the public sector leaders. Furthermore, as an example, we Members of Parliament could give up the allowance for adaptation, so that we share the everyday concerns of ordinary people in precarious working life. Mr President! I give my confidence to this government program, which also follows the views of the person I appreciate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u207	Mr President! Today, there has been a debate between the government and the opposition on a social pact. Earlier in the day, former Minister, current MP Lauri Ihalainen gave a very good speech on the triangulation and its importance. It is easy to agree with that speech. But from this trio, the will of Parliament and the wishes of the government in the current tripartite agreement principles have been loosened. That is why I personally hope that the government will show in its own way the place of the cabinet, that working life is forced to develop and move forward. I hope that the left-wing parties will not remain stuck to the former conditions and working life. Life, and working life in particular, is changing all the time, and we have to move on. I hope for an agreement, a common agreement and a vision with employers, workers and also the government and Parliament. Reform is needed. Mr President! Today, there has also been talk in the Chamber of Parliament of one of the government's top projects, namely fairway policy. Before the elections and after the elections, there must have been talk of under-management and funding in each party. Now the government is taking a decision to respect the will of the former Parliament and the result of that working group on the fairway that we need to catch up with and improve the repair debt in the corridors, because the road repair debt is now around EUR 2.4 billion and something has to be done to ensure that roads, railways, ports are in proper condition. Therefore, the transfer of the focus from 2017 onwards to improve basic infrastructure management by EUR 150 million is welcome. There has been some criticism here that it is eating from new bus projects. Well, we are living in a situation where the previous government has, in fact, already nailed down the new bus projects that will be carried out during this parliamentary term, and unless Minister Berner, together with Parliament, finds new financial routes and methods for financing new bus projects, we are in serious trouble. In addition to that EUR 150 million annual investment, the Government has therefore taken as its top priority the basic infrastructure management project. During the three years we get basic bus maintenance in this kind of superfinance, which is 600 million euros. Of course, with interest we will be watching whether or not the lines, ports, roads will receive what kind of emphasis and effort in the provinces in the coming weeks and how this money will be distributed, and it will probably be discussed a lot. Mr President! The government has made history in many ways. The strategic government programme does not embrace all the topics and issues of the world when there were calls for equality issues and so on. So a step forward has now been taken, which is what we want to reform and what we want to achieve with structural reforms during this parliamentary term. The government has also made history of the presence of the Minister for the Family, and we are very grateful for that. For the left-wing parties, it is extremely common that care and care responsibilities are put into society and systems that care and care for them. For us downtown people, it is important that we have our own responsibility for ourselves, but also for family members and those closest to us. The responsibility for care and care rests first with your parents, and it is therefore important that this government, with the power of the Minister for the Family, shows that we want to support families, and these investments in home services and child protection are extremely important in this very limited and tight economic time. Children's allowances and the grounds for home care support were not touched, and that was a matter of value.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u208	Mr President! There have now been a few days of discussion of a new government programme, and that feeling — whether it is a left-wing opposition, how you describe it here or how you call us — is that strong feeling of injustice and not that it is just complaining here. It is also worth doing such a little pollup tour out there, so surely our sense of touch will also pass on to you, my dear government. At first, however, it is also good to thank you for the things that have also been worthy of that thanks. It is wonderful that the government programme, which is, of course, very strategic, has mentioned immigrant women as an individual issue. It is an important issue, but on the other hand it is thanks because if you think about immigrant women, their integration, the integration of their children, it is extremely important that children get into day care, children get into school, so I do not know how, for example, the limitation of subjective day care rights supports immigrant women in any way either. I believe that the debate on equality, on gender equality, which has also taken place here, is well founded. The Government Programme says that women and men are equal. I understand if this is a goal and a state of ambition, but it cannot be for you the current situation in which you feel that men and women are equal in Finland, because this is not the case. The second point I would like to address, Mr President, is this injustice, inequality towards the world as well. Similarly, there has been talk here of development aid and also of this very violent and radical cutting. Finland is committed to the OECD target of 0.7% of GDP for development cooperation. In 2014, Finland spent just over one billion on development cooperation. This is about 0.54% of GDP. As we all know here, so in the previous period there was a cut in development cooperation and, in particular, last year was a tough one. But this government is really doing better, because we are really on the brink of a gap. More than 350 million will be cut from development cooperation in a period of increasing global inequality. Let me give you a few examples of our immediate neighbours of how they deal with development cooperation. In 2014, Sweden and Norway spent more than EUR 5 billion each, Denmark spending EUR 2.5 billion. Last year many of the new EU countries were able to raise development funds. Among other things, Estonia increased its development cooperation by 26% and Lithuania by 37%. Finland falls in this group — not even far away — into a very shameful series. At least if such a choice is made, we can no longer speak of Finland as a responsible global actor. Mr President! When we talk about development funds, we often talk about euros. Do we understand what's behind the euro? We're talking about people. When you look at those news clips from Nepal, Afghanistan, far from anywhere else in the world, they are people. We are talking about food, we are talking about school supplies, we are talking about clean drinking water, and this seems very often forgotten when we talk only about euros. All in all, these cuts are very short-sighted and quite absurd. While we are taking aid away from the target countries, we are still talking here about the accelerating refugee situation, the situation in the Mediterranean, the natural disasters caused by climate change in general. What is Finland prepared to do? We're gonna put our hands up. Mr President! In time, Finland has also been helped to rise from poverty, to stabilise its own society. It is therefore wrong that we are not now supporting others on the same path of development, which in future would, above all, also support Finland from an economic point of view. So if we don't think about this with emotion and heart, then, good government, at least think about it with reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u209	Honored Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! We have had two days of lively and colorful discussion about the government programme, which is undoubtedly tough. In one way or another, its savings affect everyone in Finland. I would like to raise a few points, thank you, among other things, for putting work ahead of all decision-making and investing in entrepreneurship to create jobs. It's actually the best social security. Mr President! The second thing that deserves praise is that this government invests in informal care. Increase opportunities for days off, so that you can do valuable family carer work also while working bread. The stakes are EUR 75 million more. We also want to invest more in veterans, to show gratitude and to redeem our debt of gratitude for a small part of it. It is also a big decision that the overall tax rate does not rise, and we also want to encourage work and encourage work by reducing labour taxation. There has been a lively debate on the social pact. I think it is right that those who work also take responsibility in this difficult situation, and that is why I hope that the social pact will proceed. It is important to Finland. Competitiveness, employment, are the values that we will manage to achieve in the future if we succeed in doing so. The alternative is significant savings of EUR 1.5 billion. I do not see it as a blackmail package, but, above all, as an alternative to the fact that there is no such contribution from those who are working, those who work for us. Employers have been called upon to be involved in this. I think it is a big contribution that they are creating new jobs in this country, and that is why I find it surprising that the left-wing opposition has spoken about the refund of the Kela levy here today. This would have a negative impact on employment in our country. I also very much welcome the fact that this government is taking on the great repair debt that we have in the road. According to various estimates, the debt of correction is between EUR 2 and 2.5 billion and has been accumulated during the previous government but already before it, and now we are starting to correct this with a EUR 600 million contribution that will enable us to take bridges, smaller state roads into better shape, but hopefully also projects such as the completion of highway two's basic improvement, Lahti's southern bypass, road 54, this type of road. Mr President! I hope that the government will seriously review these appropriations for the Defence Forces. This debate has shown that they are not rising in the way that we have wanted together. It does not realise the state of will that the parliamentary working party had and which, apart from the left and the Greens, all parties had before the elections, that the Defence Forces would be allocated the funds that this parliamentary working party had put forward. I appeal to the government and, above all, to Mr Niinistö, the Minister for Defence, to find this money there in such a way that the Defence Forces will actually increase the funds as agreed. Mr President! I'm gonna take a little more time than that five minutes. Six hours I have been waiting here and I am exercising the right of a Member of Parliament to use the speaking time on an important issue, but I also promise that I will not climb this platform again today, because I want to go a little over what is being done in terms of construction, land use. To build, we're looking for a good leap. We want to dismantle unnecessary regulation and reduce the costs of housing construction, above all so that there is a shortage of housing in the country to facilitate affordable rental housing production. Government-supported housing production will now be accelerated by creating a new interim ten-year model of financial support, which will be open to all eligible and committed developers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u212	The recommendation period was exceeded by 50%. Representatives have the right to continue for more than five minutes, as was the case here. I would like to reiterate that this is a recommendation, and I hope that, if possible, the representatives will take this into account. Mr Heinonen acted as if he had the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u213	Mr President! In the course of the debate here, the opposition has rather focused on small-key interlocutors or the daunting of individual savings, rather than presenting real alternatives or alternatives to the whole or evaluating the government's programme as a strategic whole. So would you have liked to continue indebtedness against future generations? Looks like it. You would have liked to do this and not reform Finland. In the Government Programme, debt is reversed so that important welfare services can be saved and secured in the future. The over-debted country is unable to take care of the weakest. The incentive to entrepreneurship and, above all, to work will be improved and the conditions for the creation of new jobs will be created by improving Finland’s competitiveness. The overall tax rate will not rise; that is a good thing. For its part, it is difficult to defend the greatest savings in education, but here as a whole we must focus primarily on making these savings as rationally as possible for the whole, so that they are as little as possible detrimental to the success of Finland's future. The good news is that digitalization is progressing. Information and communication technologies will, among other things, be better used in education in the future. Standards are also advancing, the opening hours of stores are being liberalised, planning is being made more flexible, the protection of municipal mergers is being rationalised. Mr President! A credible defence capability must be ensured, and the defence budget must be brought to the level proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Parliament, as has been the spirit of the government negotiations. I believe that this will be the case. Internal security is also well maintained in the programme. The programme also highlights in an excellent way the fact that work is the best social security. Finally, a small detail of the programme. The fact that horse manure is allowed because it is the most important thing in terms of employment in the horse sector and also in terms of leisure opportunities, especially for girls and boys, is that horse manure is allowed to be burned, because it is the most important thing in terms of individual employment in the horse sector and also in terms of leisure opportunities, which can be done to improve girls' leisure opportunities. After all, riding is the hobby that girls prefer most, and it has not been on the same line with social support, for example, with many types of ball sport, so I find it rather funny that this particular issue of manure incineration was raised at the time of the evaluation of gender equality records in the government programme. I myself have been driving this manure burning issue for a long time, and I think it is really important for girls to have a hobby. So, Mr President, the whole of this government programme is worth defending. It contains strong and credible measures to reverse Finland's direction. The economic programme is very strong and leads to a break in debt. The programme has strong priorities for employment and growth. Of course, the government has had to save everything but the core functions of society, namely national defence and internal security. These savings are partly difficult but absolutely necessary. In fact, over-indebtedness in Finland is not able to provide its weakest and essential basic services. The Government’s programme thus provides a basis for securing well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u214	Mr President! I have just attended the Federation of Trade Unions in Services, and I was also concerned by the government's efforts to dismantle the long-standing culture of reconciliation. Many have described the government’s policy as a blackmail screw to persuade the employees’ movement to suffer various types of deterioration. Unfortunately, the government has already chosen the livelihood of pensioners and families with children as a pawn in the negotiations. Instead of the Government Programme and such practices, people with low wages would have expected the government to adopt legislative measures, for example for minimum working hours, to improve the purchasing power of the lowest income categories and to strengthen the rules on the playing field in working life, so that it would be possible to get along with pay. I am deeply concerned about the government's planned cuts, which are fully targeted at the most low-income people: the elderly, the sick, the disabled and the children. I am also concerned about the general climate of the government: for example, the comments on tinkering when it comes to all the cries for help from the lowest-income people, or the openly admitting that government cuts do not apply to those who are the best off. Nothing is cut from the poorest, said Timo Soini in January. Let's make a value selection, not cut out of education, but Sanni Grahn-Laasonen's line a few weeks ago. This is what the new government and its programme were saying until a moment ago. But now we know what happened. It is therefore justified to ask where is the consumer protection of voters. Mr President! I understand the realities of the Finnish economy, and I also understand that citizens expect reforms, courage and strength, but I think that the real strength is to be able to put yourself in the position of other people and to see the man behind these process diagrams, structures and the veil of reform. On the electoral grounds, I met in particular low income pensioners who came to me and told me of their financial distress. What does the government think we should say to these people, who already have to ask at the pharmacy, is it necessary to take all the medicines because they cannot afford them. Unfortunately, the cuts planned by the government for those on low incomes, older people and sick people mean that these people will multiply, even though one is already too many. It was important for us Social Democrats last season to ensure a sufficient number of staff in 24-hour care. It should be remembered that people who are generally in 24 - hour care are in need of help from another person and also in need of help from others, such as mobility. Currently, for example, half of those in 24-hour care in Finland have not been released for the last month according to new THL studies. That is why it is right to ask whether the number of staff at present is sufficient for the realisation of fundamental rights for older people. That is why, in my first speech here in Parliament, I want to give these people a voice. The fall in staff planned by the government in 24-hour care, i.e. enhanced service housing, directly affects the realisation of the fundamental rights of people living and living there. Also, the increase in customer fees, which are currently very high at national level and which increase inequality, for example, the reduction in the reimbursement of medicines and the reduction in housing allowance, which also affects many people for up to EUR 100, will lead our elderly to the social welfare office after these reforms. I hope that the government will review the impact of the cuts in a comprehensive way and from the point of view of fairness in practice. In the beginning period, we will begin immediately with a number of major reforms, in which I also want to be strongly involved. I hope, however, that in the future the government's policies will be such that cuts will not only be directed at the most low-income and the most vulnerable. However, I hope that I can support investments in education, well-being and equality, which are seen as worthy of investment and which we should invest in in the future, as well as progressive tax increases, in a fair way that those who are best off also take part in the collective effort. Finally, the fact that the strength of society is not explained by how the strongest do, but by how it takes care of the weaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u215	Mr President! The Swedish People's Party agrees with the Government's aim of finding and creating measures to promote growth and competitiveness in Finland. The achievement of a social pact would be central to this objective, but its content, as well as the balancing measures of the government, should of course be fair. RKP says you can't operate on kids. The key to increasing competitiveness and productivity would be to address discrimination in working life, the position of women in working life and early retirement in general, and to prevent it. Work and better management need to be strengthened in order to increase productivity. To gain women’s confidence, it is also necessary to have the courage to make assessments of the gender impact of all measures. I would like to announce and I very much hope that this will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u216	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Först beröm. Det strategiska regeringsprogrammets stora Bild av economist, alltså verklighetsupfattningen så att säga, vilar på en realisticsk grund. En regering som inte hade tags ett ordentligt nacksving på dagens ekonsiska location och föreslagit Massiva anpassningsåtgärder, en sådan regering hade variant i fel bransch. Därför finns det inte så mycket att invända mot storleksordningen på anpassningsåtgärderna, låt varaat att det nog innehållsmässigt finns mottridiga, direkt felettiga prioriteringar så som den massiva attacken på utbildningen och barnen, vilket också pylordförande Haglund kisterade i sitt tal i går. Klokt är också regeringens beslut att binda den villkorliga delen av anpassningspaket till ett eventuellt samhällsfördrag i höst. Den auri delen av packaget verkställs inte ifall parterna på arbetsmarknaden nu kan tona ner den organiserade egoismen och i stället i krismedvetenhetens namn, och med landets bästa för ögonen ta ett heletsansvar. Vi ska hoppas att så raus sker och att också den politiska vänstern i den raussalen gör allt för att underlätta tillkomsten av ett samhällsfördrag. Kontakterna till de fackliga högkvarteren är som vi vet inte särskilt blygsamma. Måtte Sipilä år 2015 ha bättre tään Esko Aho och Kalevi Sorsa 1991. Den gången vägde politiserandets fröjder och det fackliga navelskåderiet mer än landets bästa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u217	Mr President! First of all, of course, I should like to join Mrs Wallin in wishing the ministers well, but otherwise Mrs Wallin's clover seeding was — well, they were fun. But in this difficult situation in Finland, major changes are needed, of which the Prime Minister has often said here in two days that they are extremely difficult. It is not easy at the same time to adapt the economy, to reform society and structures, and then to try to achieve economic growth at the same time. I understand that the new government programme, which is clearly more strategic than before, has been built on the basis of a real and real picture of the situation. Unlike four years ago, the Government Programme has recognised our financial situation openly and drawn conclusions that have been assessed to be correct. As a result, the sustainability gap of EUR 10 billion is difficult to cover, and it is a very tough task. However, we cannot convince anyone that Finland can afford everything that we are now paying for tax resources. Debt must be brought to a halt once and for all, and other solutions would not be fair to future generations. In any event, immediate savings decisions of EUR 4 billion at 2019 level will be painful, not to mention any additional savings of EUR 1.5 billion and tax increases, unless a much-speaked social agreement is achieved to improve our competitiveness. Despite the painful savings, the Government Programme has rightly invested in growth. After all, the most important thing for the well-being society is that Finns have work to do. The improvement of employment has also been successful in making the Government Programme red. Increasing the employment rate is also an essential means of preventing inequalities and exclusion. One of the important guidelines of the Government Programme, which does not require sacrifices from Finns, but increases competitiveness and the creation of new jobs, is the dismantling of standards and unnecessary bureaucracy. In Finland, we simply need to get into regulation that allows for restrictive regulation. There must be determination in the process of dismantling standards in all quarters, including here in Parliament. Unnecessary deregulation mainly affects the municipal and corporate sectors, which also supports the rationalisation of services and at the same time strengthens the local decision-making powers. There is also a strong belief in the potential of rural and bioeconomy in the Government Programme. Investments in the bioeconomy are the best use of the country's resources and support employment throughout the country. The programme includes very extensive targets for the use of wood to increase wood, which can bring thousands and thousands of jobs across Finland in different regions. The recognition of the importance of food production, on the other hand, creates opportunities for the growth of the Finnish food cluster. We also need to dismantle standards in this sector, so that all kinds of small-scale food processing activities can be profitable, not to mention agriculture itself. It is of the utmost importance for the whole bioeconomy to be realised now that the infrastructure is invested as much as has been promised. The overall package of EUR 1.6 billion for strategic objectives and transport infrastructure is hopefully the necessary impetus to change the direction of the economy. The launch of the bioeconomy calls for transport to be made possible, which is why this infrastructure is a really good policy for the government. We must now also ensure that that money also targets the lower road network, the private network and the rail network. The Government Programme also includes major structural reforms. Social and health care reform is important not only because of the savings it brings, but also because we can shift the focus of services to prevention. I look forward to these restructurings of the Government Programme very much. The much-speaked reform of social services is carried out by means of a self-governing regional model. Views on the reform of central and regional government also relate to the whole. It is clear that it is not only for social welfare activities that it makes sense to have an elected social welfare administration; there is something else that needs to be put together in the package. In general, it is now necessary to clarify the entire intermediate administration. In other words, structural reforms go ahead in a certain way, but regional and central government reforms and the balancing of local government funding and tasks are included in the Government Programme. Preparations for all of these should begin as a matter of urgency, even because they are closely linked.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u218	Mr President! The Government is invigorating the Government's plan to reduce the transport network repair debt by EUR 600 million, but there is no point in looking for other transport policy entries in this government programme. So what direction is Finland's transport system to be developed? At least in the annexes there is a cut in public transport subsidies of EUR 15 million per year. Will the cut be for large or medium-sized cities, or perhaps for regional public transport? It remains to be seen, as well as whether the result will be a reduction in public transport, an increase in the contribution of municipalities or an increase in the price of tickets, or perhaps all three. In other words, the government's transport policy can be summed up in order to fill the pits and reduce public transport. At least as far as transport is concerned, the Government Programme does not honour the Prime Minister's promise to reform the structures and create the conditions for growth. From this green point of view, the dismantling of public transport and the neglect of walking and cycling are simply exceptionally stupid political choices. For example, according to a study carried out in Helsinki, a one-euro investment in cycling brings benefits of EUR 8 in terms of health effects and time savings, among other things. The transport policy of the Government Programme turns out to be particularly confusing when compared to the key projects of the Government term, which highlight, among other things, the transformation of traffic into a service. In the future, people will be able to get a certain number of trips by mass transport, robotic car or city bike, for example. The traditional distinction between public and private passenger transport disappears. The automation of traffic is progressing rapidly, as all those who follow technical news know. Self-propelled vehicles will be on the road in the next few years, in fact the first in the next parliamentary term. But you don't want to own a robot car and stand idle in a parking lot. It's in constant traffic. As rightly stated in the Government Programme, passenger car transport alone will therefore become a service. So that much aggravation of car tax won't keep you warm for long. On the other hand, the total productivity of transport leaps and costs fall as car utilisation increases and parking is no longer needed. But by filling holes, Finland will not become a pioneer in digital transport services, where the developed services are sold around the world, much like Finnish GSM networks in the 1990s. There is a need for both legislation, research funding and transport investment. 600 million would be a pretty good start-up investment. Mr President! Four years ago we were still talking about the information society, now digitalization. Until four years ago, no word of digitalisation was used in the programme of the Katainen Government. This spring, in practice, all party leaders offered digitalisation as a cure for all Finland’s problems in the election discussions, but they were careful not to tell us what it is. That is why I am a little surprised that the numerous digitalization records of the Government Programme, which are in themselves well-supported, are not reflected in the Appendix to the Decisions of the Programme, which lists the cuts and investments planned by the Government and its supposed economic consequences. It is as if the programme and annex were written in different negotiations. Finland will not be digitised by itself. The Government Programme reminds me of Katainen’s Government’s programme on remote identification, smart electricity networks, intelligent transport, identity theft, electronic accessibility, open source code, overall architecture, online invoicing — to name but a few. And what became of them? Well, the information society arc, cyber strategy and e-students' writing progressed, but most of the promises made by Katainen's Government's programme on the digitalisation of Finland were not realised. I very much hope that the Sipilä government will succeed better. But if I have learned something from politics, it is that the things that have been provided for come true. And there's no money in this government program for digitalisation, not a cent. It is as if investments in learning environments in schools, digital public services in a one-stop shop, industrial internet applications, overall architecture and digitalisation of administrative processes take place on their own. As Prime Minister Sipilä, as an engineer, well knows, productivity will be improved by investment, not by cutting. It's just surgery that narrows things down, doesn't develop them. Savings are never free. Mr President! For many of the objectives of this government programme, it is easy to hope that they will not happen. Digitalisation, however, is an exception. Without the radical new ways of using ICT, without the famous productivity leap, it is pointless for us to dream of balancing Finland's public finances. Without bold digitalisation, we have no reason to imagine maintaining our present standard of living and welfare services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u219	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Wallin's concerns about government records are limited to the protocol relating to party law, then there are obviously other things that are good. But I do understand Mrs Wallin: it is sad, it is like that bad dream, and it came true. Mr President! This is the seventh year when we live in Finland over the money. We've taken a glutton debt. The seventh year is a year of crisis. We now have to reduce the large house that we have built with debt. Savings hurt, but they have to be made. If Finland were a private individual, it would have lost its credit information and would be in debt counselling. We have to do everything we can to break the debt cycle. There must also be enough debt to pay our children and grandchildren. The level of employment must rise, it is a first step. Government tax policy aims at growth, entrepreneurship and strengthening employment. No government has been good if we think only of the uncomfortable actions that every government has to take during its own term, but everyone also strives for good and succeeds in doing good things for our society. There are things in the Government Programme that aim for good. Investments will be increased, for example, for internal and external security, child protection and support for families with children, the development of a foster care system for family and family carers, home care for the elderly and support for veterans, and family care. An additional 100 million will be added to the maintenance of transport networks on an annual basis and an additional 600 million in a one-off manner. In addition, the Government will invest EUR 1 billion in the sites to be published later. The government also wants to ensure that penalties for crimes are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. Review of first-time provisions, the level of punishment for violent offences and serious sexual offences against children and the possibilities of strengthening conditional prison sentences. During the last period, sexual offences and convictions against children were on the table in several debates in Parliament. I also made a legal initiative in this area and I am delighted that this is progressing. The appropriate allocation of social security paid abroad will be examined during this parliamentary term. In the event of a divorce, the best interests of the child and the right to the father and the mother are safeguarded and the separation services are strengthened. Child and family services will be transformed into more child- and family-oriented and cross administrative boundaries, red tape will be reduced. There will be a level increase in guarantee pensions. The Government also aims to increase its obligations to tackle bullying and promote peace in schools. According to a recently published study, much of depression in young adults is related to childhood bullying. I am absolutely sure that this broadcast will also be closely monitored today, and it will be listened to by many people who feel that this issue is also theirs. Bullying must stop, but also bullying at work. No one can be humiliated. The government is putting a difficult and sensitive matter on the table. The Government also wants to launch a national programme to promote mental health and prevent loneliness. This also aims to prevent suicide. Students from outside the EU and the EEA will be charged tuition fees and the Wastewater Regulation will be moderated. The government is not raising the gas tax or VAT. Similarly, the taxation of low-emission cars will fall by EUR 200 million. Income tax will be reduced by EUR 450 million for small and medium-income earners and a reduction of EUR 130 million for small entrepreneurs. Children's or occupational pensions are not affected. During the previous government term, heavy bed care and beds were reduced. Too many elderly people were left home without adequate home care, without an impact assessment or responsibility. This government wants to improve the situation for the elderly at home, and millions are being invested in home care, family care and family care. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The things of the elderly don't get old. We get old. Our job is to try to do everything in our power to make things better for the elderly. This government programme is a programme for four years. The world will certainly not be ready after that, but we are aiming for improvements. The Government deserves the opportunity to do its best for Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u220	Mr President! In this debate on economic policy, I am still surprised by the parallels between Finland and a private person and a company, as Mrs Juvonen did there. I shall be opening my own views on this matter in a moment. Mr President! The expectations for a future government programme for the basic right-wing government were not particularly high, but what the people got in front of them last week was fierce, confusing and frightening. The basic right-wing government has taken a drastic course of surgery, which cuts the basic services, education and research of ordinary citizens and the most vulnerable, which are the future of Finland. The conflict between the promises and the actions of the government programme must be highlighted. Such a contradiction between words and actions has not been seen for a while. The Government Programme promises to invest in education, but at the same time cuts 600 million. The Government Programme promises the people that everyone will get hurt, but cuts will largely be directed at the weakest, education and services. At the same time, high incomes are being asked for voluntary volunteers, which is a complete joke compared to what the underprivileged are going through. These same things are also said here that everyone is by chance, even though, according to a report published by the Ministry of Finance a few days ago, the cuts are the worst for pensioners, families with children and the unemployed. This is wild. In particular, the desire to operate on the people of Peru is surprising. The party has said that it is for the common people and for the small person, but has rejected its election vows. The Finns have become a right-wing party, which is reflected, among other things, in cuts in social security. From now on, it is also hard to believe when the coalition and the centre say that education and education are important to themselves. Surgery, massive cuts in education, science and research are incomprehensible. Finland could not shoot itself in the foot. It is contradictory that, while we are striving for an increase in exports, we are seriously cutting back on the measures that are causing exports to rise. It is right to ask how we will get new soots, i.e. those products and solutions that can compete internationally if we do not invest in education and research. I have just referred to economic policy. The government's economic policy has been a complete disappointment. It is pointless for the government to talk about making responsible economic policies. Breaking the debt ratio is a good goal, but it is vital when and under what economic conditions it is done. Major cuts in the recession will reduce the purchasing power of citizens, reduce corporate incomes and stop domestic consumption from the national economy. In other words, wrong cuts increase national economic distress and can increase the debt ratio. This has been seen, among other things, in southern Europe and has been warned by international economists. According to information just received, domestic consumption has deteriorated in recent months. In other words, a responsible economic policy is not a cutting-edge policy in circumstances other than conditions, but also takes domestic demand into account. It is also very important that economic policy-making takes account of the impact of economic policy on social justice, inequality, poverty and gender equality. It is very sad to see that the government programme is not interested in these points. Mr President! Just a few more words about the immigration policy envisaged by the government. A bad immigration policy is to make family reunification difficult, for example. Every person has the right to a family life that is of enormous importance for integration. Unfair living conditions, difficult application procedures and long processing times and uncertainty pose problems. I therefore call for real sense in Finland's immigration policy and also in the debate on it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u221	Irade the Talman! Vi debatterar i dag vårt regeringsprogram som tillkommit under aldrig tidigare skådat medialt intresse, och väl så, för vi lever i utmanande tider. Det har talats om processcheman, bokstavskombinationer, kontorslandskap, effektivitet, men med facit på hand kan man inte undgå att janka: Har processen fått överag på bekostnad av innehållet? I valkampanjens hetta kastas löften ut både vitt och brett. Våra vanner sannfinländarra har krupit till korset och tags tillbaka ett och ata, bloggskrivelser, sin EU-politik, sitt invandringspolitiska program och mycket you give. Med tanke på regeringens functioninsduglighet hade det variants elkommet om det olyckliga yttrande om ett decimerat statsråd aven det hadkats i historiens och valfläskets sopkorg, men så gjordes det inte. Vi har ett onekligen ambitiöst regeringsprogram som dock riskerar att allvarligt invalidiseseras av ett statsråd som av rent populistiska skäl fått en minst sagt märklig struktur. I en tid som kräver stora insatser vad sysselsättningen gäller bestämmer man att slå samman arbetskraftsministern med justtieministerposten, samtidigt som vi vet, eller brode veta att också rauttsväsendet har det svårt. Vad säger det om regeringens värderingar? Ir inte sysselsättningen en topprioritet? Har justitieministeriet vart överresurserat? Vi är många i salen som tycker att sysselsättningen är viktig och att rättsväsendet är en prioritet. Utbildningen står aven den inför stora utmangar, i synnerhet med tanke på de nedskärningar som nu planeras. Trots det Väljer man att kombinera ministerportföljen med kulturministerns, samtidigt som man skär ner på statsekreterarnas och medarbetarnas antal. Vad säger det om regeringens värderingar? Ärade ministrar! Vi förtjänar en functionensduglig regering och jag är allvarligt oroad över hur regeringen prioriterar, och jag är orolig för dubbelministrarna Lindströms, Grahn-Laasonens och Tiilikainens älsa, och visserligen också ministrarna Orpos och Toivakkas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u222	Mr President! During this two-day period here in the Chamber, when this government communication on this future government programme has been reviewed, several speeches and debatations have also paid particular attention to the intention of loosening the nurse’s capacity in nursing work. I have been tempted to reply — and now I am going to take this answer for a moment, so that I am speaking both as a representative of the Government Party and, above all, as a nurse specialising in the care of the elderly and as a long-standing person. I would not be so concerned about this reduction in the number of nurses, but I would be pleased that this government is going to allow and help people who do not have long medical training to take part in the care of the elderly and tending to care in institutions as well as in home care in the future. This is an important issue. This is an important issue for the success of care for the elderly and of nursing work in general, and also an important issue for our employment. We know, and the lobbies have calculated that in the coming years we will have a huge, huge shortage of nurses. Tens of thousands of people would need more so that our sick and elderly people, people in need of care, could get the help they need, so in any case, we need to find ways to get that nursing done. Each of us is allowed to give birth to a child or to care for a loved one with the very knowledge we have in our heart and head, so that I do not understand why, for example, this kind of normal old age suddenly turns into a disease in our society, which requires a long education. Is it really like this? I do not think so, and this relaxation is indeed needed in order for us to cope with this change in the age structure in Finland. This is why I see this as a great opportunity to genuinely bring life into the days of our elderly, for example. Fresh and healthy, we can't make them, but life for days. With this change, we get those people who have the right attitude to do that job but not necessarily the years of training, that nursing work, not the nursing jobs, but the nursing work to give the elderly a chance to have a quiet meal, that's a big deal, or to give people a chance to walk. That's a big deal, too. Let me out. That is not the right of all of us at the moment. We can read them magazines, do other stimulating activities, help them with washing. There are a lot of tasks that can be done by people who do not have long medical training but have the right attitude. Indeed, this change will increase employment and improve our level of care. And I would like to point out, particularly in this debate, that Mr Gustafsson was concerned earlier that there would be no rotation leave if we were not able to conclude a social agreement, but that the government programme specifically stated that it would support people who are working, that they would be better able to take part in the care of their families of different ages. In other words, rotation leave is not going to be completely eradicated, but such purposes will continue to exist for it. Then I would like to comment on Mrs Heinäluoma. He was very quick to raise the issue of the treatment of farmers in the social contract. I think it's a good idea for Mr. Heinäluoma to take a look at the government program. It is already standing there, without a social pact, that a EUR 23 million cut in rural programme funding has been planned for 2016-2019. This is quite a lot of money, without a social contract. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u223	Mr President! Juha Sipilä's first government programme is now in the debate. It is a government programme and a challenging goal. It is realistic, but it is also strongly forward-looking. This government program is different from what we've been used to in the last few times. There are now five strategic priorities in terms of well-being, employment, learning, the bioeconomy and policies. This government programme contains many very painful decisions, and no one has covered up the fact that these cuts will not also be made during this parliamentary term. This government programme, which is aimed at the future, is primarily aimed at having more active businesses in this country, but also at more activity and more work. These jobs do not come easily, and that is why a great deal of work must be done on them. Mr President! A social pact is something that must be taken seriously in the autumn. The labour market organisations have now been challenged to ensure that we get growth in this country, that we get productivity in this country. The government is committed to tax reductions of around EUR 1 billion if these are achieved. But we must also have an alternative if the social partners are unable to find and agree on this agreement. In the interests of transparency, this too has been reported and, unfortunately, in that case, these savings will have to be made on other matters and will be even more painful cuts than those committed to doing. Mr President! I am very pleased with the foreign and security policy line of this government programme. It is stable, it is predictable, and it secures the future of Finnish defence. The parliamentary report of the last parliamentary term on foreign and security policy and, above all, on the financing of defence is now recorded within this government programme, and we will be able to secure the sufficient resources required for Finnish defence. I particularly welcome the inclusion of self-regulating training in the reserve, which means that voluntary national defence work is recognised to have the value that it also holds in our defence field, for more than 95 % of our troops in the war. President! The bioeconomy is a key factor in future growth and plays a key role in this Government Programme as well. There we have a lot of opportunities, the overall exploitation of forests in the energy sector and in the construction sector. We can use wood far more than we are currently using. There is plenty of wood for both energy use and industrial needs. During the last parliamentary term, we had very detailed discussions on how wood is currently being used, and we have only about two thirds of what we are currently growing in forests. We need to get rid of the coal, and I think we're going to do that now. Domestic wood and peat should always be cheaper forms of energy, and they should be used in the production of domestic electricity and heat. But above all, what is needed now is that we need those new food for growth, both on the bioeconomy and on the business side as a whole. They come from the fact that we are taking out unnecessary rationing. We need those red tape projects, and they are now indeed ahead. This means simplifying the agricultural administration. It means breaking the building regulations. This means that we do not patronise an individual person more than is currently being done. It also means the dismantling of municipal tasks. Madam President! I believe that this government programme will put us on the path of stable growth and, despite painful decisions, we will have a better future in this country, as we are now taking bold, painful and necessary decisions for the future of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u224	Mr President! There's been a long discussion here. From the Government Programme of Sipilä to Parliament, and I thought to draw Parliament's attention to a few points which I think are important in terms of Vaasa's constituency and the underprivileged, all three sub-districts. First of all, this government programme has a very positive attitude towards agriculture and forestry in all its forms. The Government Programme talks about a bioeconomy and talks about clean solutions. The Government Programme has very ambitious targets for increasing domestic clean energy. The objective is that in the 2020s more than 50% of non-emission-free renewable energy will be used and self-sufficiency will be more than 55%, including peat. For us bottomers, people from the region of Ostrobothnia, using peat as energy and the entire peat economy, all the economic activity involved are very important. Agriculture and forestry is also seen very positively in this Government Programme. And the goal of the government programme as such, that unnecessary standards, unnecessary bureaucracy, unnecessary controls should be reduced, will be welcomed by those in primary production. Efforts are also being made to facilitate generational exchanges, and it is particularly positive that historical efforts are also being made to provide for reductions in inheritance and gift taxation on forest holdings and to facilitate the implementation of generational change for forest farms. The Government Programme is also very positive for small entrepreneurs. Based on the Government Programme, entrepreneurship reduction is implemented in taxation, a 5 per cent entrepreneurship reduction. It is also being made more flexible to account for VAT, so that the problems for liquidity and the cashiers of small businesses can now be eliminated when their own invoices do not fall into payment and then they themselves have to pay their own bills. This is a long-term objective raised by Finnish entrepreneurs, among others. I also think it is important for the underprivileged to have a large number of low-income pensioners in our region, with very small pensions paid by the Social Insurance Institution, people living on small working pensions, that we receive a small increase in the guarantee pension. Of course, EUR 20 is not much, but it is more than nothing, Mr President. I also think it is very important that now, on the basis of this government programme, we can try basic income. We can try a model in which basic social security can be paid simply: you don't have to run receipts to that social welfare office, you don't have to go through such a humiliating process where you pass through a person's entire life. The constituency of Vaasa relies heavily on primary production. The province of South Ostrobothnia has chosen its own expertise as its leading, own intelligent specialisation in food systems. South Ostrobothnia likes to call itself the Food Council. President! A major Finnish industry that has no mention in the Government Programme is fur farming and fur farming. Some might think that the fact that there is no mention of fur farming is also a positive thing, because then there will be no record of trying to end this important industry in five or ten years' time, for example, which, in a difficult economic situation, still brings a lot of export revenue and, above all, brings a lot of export income to Finland in the provinces. However, people in fur farming hope that this dismantling of standards and the dismantling of unnecessary bureaucracy will also be extended to that side of the fur industry. There are many points in the Government Programme that seek to generate new growth in Finland, that aim to gain more jobs, that of more companies in our home country. In relation to this, I consider the development of tourism to be a very important issue. Tourism is a big industry in all the countries of the North. President! I also hope that this infrastructure investment package, which has now been launched here in our government programme, will also bring future transport network projects to the region of the sub-regions, so that bottlenecks on Highway 19 can be opened. The main road 63 is important, and in Jalasjärvi the area of highway 3 should also be developed through this. The main track is also important to us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u225	Mr President! Our country's financial situation is weak. It is much weaker than was believed during the election debates. That is why it is clear that the coming parliamentary term will be marked by economic issues in particular. Finland's economy must be balanced. At the moment, we're taking on an eating debt of about 6 billion a year. The economic direction must be reversed. Now we stand in the way of Greece. It must be clear to all of us that a fair and socially sustainable economic shift must be made. Decisions should not be taken solely on economic terms, but economic issues can be ignored in very few cases. This ongoing discussion of the Government Programme has overlooked the fact that the economy will be balanced through two ways: reducing expenditure, but also with a strong and stable effort to increase revenue. Since central government finances have been in decline for a long time, savings have been made for years, it is clear that if there have ever been easy savings, those savings have certainly already been made. Future savings solutions will apply to all Finns. The extent to which they affect depends on everyone's situation and, of course, on the decisions we take here. I'm not going around. Our economy is weak. You have to react to it. This reaction will cause grief and genuine fear of living. I am very sorry about that, but at the same time we must bear in mind that the alternative to this economic worm is even worse, and that even the weaker ones need to be taken care of in this context of economic adjustment. The Government Programme has also given rise to a great deal of impetuous speeches that these painful savings and cuts have been mentioned directly in this Government Programme. During the previous parliamentary term, the vast majority of savings have been made in the central government shares of municipalities, and that is how these debates that we are having here today have been conducted at municipal level and the most painful austerity decisions to which the savings are directed have been taken in municipalities. I think this principle is better: we are directly responsible for savings decisions, things are said here and now as they are. Mr President! A few words about the bioeconomy and the agricultural sector that is close to me. As far as agriculture is concerned, there has been no easy savings. The severe cuts already made during the last parliamentary term have contributed to the tightening of the farm economy. Even in this parliamentary term, agriculture and forestry will not be completely spared savings, but the scale is now different. The financial plight of the farms has been taken into account. The prioritized savings from the last parliamentary term are not now on the agenda. During the last parliamentary term, agricultural and forestry savings were considerably higher than in many other sectors. In addition, during this parliamentary term, the aim is to target cuts to the minimum possible level of active production and active producers. The Government Programme contains very strong records on bioeconomy, forestry, agriculture and renewable energy. It includes, among other things, improving the profitability of food production, bringing forward subsidies, reducing unnecessary red tape, making the conditions for aid reasonable, along with controls and reasonable sanctions. The compensation system has been recorded in an entrepreneur-oriented way. It does not refer to the service voucher model, but to the fact that leave must always be based on the needs of the entrepreneur. There are also many other positive entries in the bioeconomy. I am very pleased that the Government Programme sees the potential of the bioeconomy to employ, create new entrepreneurship, growth opportunities in Finland. This will strengthen the tax base and thus create opportunities for us to secure welfare services and Finland as we now see it and experience it for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u226	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned that the orientations of the Sipilä Government Programme will increase the inequality of people. The Government Programme's decision to cut will focus most on low-income pensioners, the unemployed, students and families with children. Children and young people have no defences other than us adults, and that is why I am talking about them today. The annexes to the Government Programme contain many details that, when implemented, have a negative impact on the lives of families with children. The Government intends to restrict the subjective right of children to day care and to increase group sizes in both day-care centres and schools. The afternoons of a child in preschool would no longer be covered by day care, but would be paid club activities. Day care fees will be increased, even though they are already very high. For example, a family of three children already pays EUR 650 and more for day care each month. In addition, fees for the morning and afternoon activities of schoolchildren will be increased. This money is out of purchasing power and running the economic wheels. In normal families with children, all money goes to consumption and maintains domestic demand and jobs, including in shops. The opposite should be true of the line payments. With the government's proposals, the plight of the families is getting worse, and when the increase in housing, electricity, motoring and pharmaceuticals and health care charges is added to them, we will have the result that the decline in purchasing power will feed the recession and increase unemployment. The guidelines do not create the conditions for growth and demand for work. Kalevi Sorsa, the longest Prime Minister of Finland, once invented a slogan for the People's Education Fund: Tomorrow will grow today. Has this wisdom of heart been forgotten by the government parties? Consider, for example, the afternoon clubs of small schoolchildren, which are able to live up to many of the goals we all pursue: In children, the number of friends increases, school bullying decreases, physical activity increases, smoking and substance abuse decreases. By hiring club directors, unemployment among young people will decrease and parents’ access to full-time work will increase tax revenues. The afternoon club is the ideal place for a child to be after school. The club is subject to a fee, now EUR 80 per month, and there is no income link, but it is the same price for everyone. If family money is tight, many people have to save at this point and not put their children in a box. In the future, increasing payments will further disparate families. Day care and comprehensive school are the golden bundles of services for our families with children. Day care is a child’s subjective right, and hardly any parent uses it for nothing. Katainen's government applied for savings by restricting the right to day care. It did not seek the best interests of the child and the family. The delimitation proved to be an increase in expenditure. Limiting the right to day care for social reasons would have led to a threat to the equality of children. A social assessment of the need for day care would have meant in practice that the child and his or her family would have been negatively identified as problematic in some way. Fortunately, reason prevailed and this plan was abandoned. Mr President! "Give me a supporting bottom where I stand, so I move the whole world," said the Archimedes in his day. Today’s young people in Finland must be given a solid basis for the future. Young people need hobbies, facilities, training places and proper paid employment. The well-being of children and young people comes from families and local communities, but it is a matter for society as a whole. Unquestionably, the best way to safeguard the future of young people is to offer them a path to hobbies, education and working life. Children and young people need positive special treatment. It is therefore absolutely incomprehensible that the government is planning to exempt municipalities from the Youth Act, which includes educational guidance for young people, access to facilities and leisure activities, information and counselling services, support for youth associations and other youth groups, physical, cultural, international and multicultural youth activities, environmental education for young people, and youth workshops and outreach work. Studies show that hobbies would protect children from exclusion. In multiple children and single - parent families It is up to families to maintain the flame of hope for children and young people and to create an attitude that everything difficult can be dealt with. The former British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, is known to have said when it was called for a waiver of cultural resources to pay for the cost of war: 'Why do we fight then?' I do not accept, freely quoting this line of thought, the adjustment of public finances at the cost of breaking down the welfare state criteria and increasing inequalities in our society. Finland will not be saved by cutting services and impoverishing people, but by applying for growth and employment-enhancing measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u227	Madam President! The idea that culture has changed shows up to me in a few different ways. Not that the 70 pages are in any way extraordinarily small or large — plus the additions — but perhaps more so that the government of the week below has now been separated from the government’s policies by more than one minister. Below a week, and more ministers either read the government programme, as we read about the opposition in a different way, or those things have not been dealt with, or there is an opposition within the government. Perhaps this will appear to us in a few weeks, which is the right point. The second thing that has changed in this culture is that the social partners have now been held responsible for many things that do not belong to them. These include child benefits, student grants, unemployment benefit, university funding. Why do social partners have to deal with these issues? Many times in this Chamber or in the House next door, we have wondered whether the social partners have too much power, and now we want to extend this power to many things that have nothing to do with the role of the social partners themselves. This is unfortunate, but this is a cultural change that I do not like. Industrial issues, which are included in the blackmail package with regard to fairway charges, rail taxes, electricity taxes and so on, are also contrary to the second sentence of the government which says that there will be no additional costs for industry. The consequence of all this is that some of the trade unions, at least one today, have already announced that they will no longer participate in the third year of the Employment and Growth Pact. If that means that the slip is going to happen, we have 300 separate agreements to agree on by alliance. Is that the purpose the government wanted because of this distrust and this blackmail package? And it's called a social contract. It doesn't sound like a social contract to me. There have also been many speeches here about a common picture of the situation, and certainly both opposition parties and government parties have read the IMF forecasts, the Bank of Finland, the ECB forecasts, and they will show Finland, in the future, an average increase of only 1% in the long term. This is the result of many reasons. The low level of industrial investment, the decline in population, the fall in participation among young people and many others are explaining it. We Social Democrats had and still have a well-founded economic policy line that started with the idea of adapting to the 3+1: 3 billion decisions now immediately and a billion more in 2017, unless the situation has been reversed. This has been criticised, and there is, of course, a reason why we would have done so by increasing the progress made in both capital taxation and income tax — not only through cuts, but also through taxation. This has not been the case for the current government, which does not want to deal with it through taxation so that those who have the ability to pay will pay for it, but only those who receive benefits that depend on public services. This is not fair to us, and I trust now, that I hope for the few representatives of the government parties who have already slipped in the right direction in these two days — at least some of the Finns of Peruvian origin, and also some from the centre of the assembly, I have not yet heard — that I understand this thinking world, that taxation could also be used as a tool for adjusting, and that, frankly — it was also admitted by the Prime Minister — they are targeting the most low-income people, creating more uncertainty, creating inequality, and thus creating an additional problem if we consider the internal security of Finland as a whole. In the countries with the largest income differentials, the internal security of the country is also weaker than in those countries with the lowest income differentials, as well as productivity, the economy is in the best position in those countries with the lowest income differentials. For this reason, the emeritus professors, archbishops and others have also set out to appeal to the current government not to take this development of inequality forward, right after the publication of the Government Programme. One more thing separate. When I had been allowed to serve as Minister for Development for a while, this is the same thinking: we must invest in those who have fewer in reducing world poverty in the same way as reducing Finland's poverty. And now cutting a third of development aid and also from the peace negotiations is such a shocking sum that I do not know, and I hope that Minister Toivakka here is a brave person and goes to that African country to tell those schools that now you no longer have teachers. Now you no longer have nurses here at the health centre. Now we are putting an end to the very programmes that have just been started with Myanmar, for example, all the human rights issues that are in progress there. The third is so much that I suspect that it also means redundancies for people who work in organisations or directly employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in that field. It is a big foreign policy issue, because development cooperation is a large part of the overall foreign policy, and so far we have been the stable, responsible, reliable partner in both multilateral and bilateral work. It affects, hear, more than just that one school or one health station. It's affecting our whole image. When we collapse at the level of the old Eastern European countries, our influence will also collapse. That is unfortunate. Courage for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u228	Madam President! During this two-day period, a lot has been done about Juha Sipilä's Government Programme, and perhaps savings and other measures have been taken in the previous speech myself. But here are some very interesting pieces in the rest of the future: digitalisation, experiments and the dismantling of standards. We have long spoken in Finland about what kind of information systems we have, for example, in municipalities and different systems of society and how overlapping they are. I believe that we will have a great deal of money in the treasury of the state and society when we implement this section on public services in digitalisation, with a clear structure and clear policies and a number of hundreds of different programming structures can be dismantled. There is a lot of scope for this, but first these digital networks in rural areas should be put in place, fibre optics. During the previous government, I have spoken more than once about it, and I have asked a written question: now that Sonera and the partners are dismantling those copper cables, they are simply being replaced by air-borne piss, so to speak, so that we should also invest in fixed fibre networks and allow two-way traffic. This, such as the section on public services in digitalisation, makes it possible, for example, to improve services for the elderly and to improve many others, such as distance learning opportunities for education and also business in rural areas. I see that, alongside this section, we should also invest in these investments. In fact, one more of this trial section, I see that we need to have a agile Finland, take new experiments, new areas or regional experiments and related sections. One more thing is this streamlining of legislation. It is a great idea that we go on with this sort of two-month open office business, because often when governments and ministers have changed, ministers have become internalists in two weeks or months, i.e. officials have taken over this minister's thinking world. If we were to get new ideas and reforms from the ministry and reform of the rules to the provincial and municipal levels in these open office discussions, that would be a great thing. This has to do with this management and then with implementation. In structural reform, I see as a large part of this field of social welfare reform and municipal reform. For ten years now, we have had different types of training, different kinds of training, from the time of Manninen and Peltose and from there on. Different models have been scrapped and made, and the municipal court is quite tired of these reforms, and it would be good if this so-called base, which is now being exported, could be created, the three-step governance model, the basis on which structures are being built, and then the content can be developed and improved. This is a great effort, and I certainly hope that the social reform staff and ministers will also have the strength to deal with these issues in the area of regional government. Ministers Orpo and Toivakka have been here to monitor the texts coming from the government, and I could, in fact, address the questions to them here. Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors has planned a report on the state of internal security by the end of May 2016. I ask at least as such a boy in rural areas — 30 kilometres to the nearest shopping centre and 100 kilometres to the county centre — how will summer cottages like this and their internal security in police operations work in the future? During that election campaign, I myself drove a deer accident, and it was very convenient. When I called 911 about it, they just took out the information, the social security number and the license plate number of the car, and there came the police papers a day later that you had driven a deer accident and then sent these papers to the insurance company. Of course, there are many of these events, but how, if there is real violence or crime there, is the security of these quiet areas of the countryside, especially? I would like to put a question to Mr Toivaka now that it is the role of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, about development aid, to which Mr Paatero has just taken part. We are going to cut funding, but my point of view is still: how can we now make better use of Finnish technology know-how not only in financial aid but also in foreign trade and in these areas of development?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u229	Madam President! Congressman Pirttilahti asked about the Internal Security Report. It is indeed included in the government programme and it is being carefully prepared. It is well founded on parliamentary work on internal security during the last parliamentary term. But much needs to be done and we need to assess this changed security environment and the new threats that mainly affect internal security from outside the country. In addition to that, we must evaluate the resources of the police, fire and rescue services, the Raja resources in relation to these tasks that we have. This situation is very challenging. At the same time, we need to take care of these basic functions, short response times also in less populated Finland, so that people can count on help when it is needed. On the other hand, we need to mobilise resources for these new threats, and this is a tough challenge at a time when there is no extra money anywhere in the state trunks. Fortunately, in the government negotiations, EUR 50 million was added to secure the internal security situation. It is not the same as the 75 million proposed by the parliamentary group, but it is now a good basis for moving forward. Everything is done to ensure that resources can be allocated correctly to the most important basic tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u230	Madam President! Indeed, we are losing the basis for the financing of the welfare society, and we are going to have to cut out both education and social and health services that are important to us and many more, and these cuts will also be directed towards development cooperation. But we must remember that development and development policy are not just development aid. It can be done in many ways, and the content in particular determines. Now that we have been subjected to cuts as large as EUR 300 million, we will have to decide very carefully how we will prioritise this funding in the future. But above all, it is important to remember now that this is an opportunity not only to prioritise but also to reform development policy. We have a lot of players in the field, we have a lot of overlaps, we have a lot of very good work to do. These bilateral cooperation agreements with different countries have been excellent. Yesterday I met the President of Tanzania, among others, and we have just said that 50 years of development cooperation between Tanzania and Finland has been very successful. But at the same time, in his speech, the President of Tanzania said that 'aid is good, but trade and investment is better'. Among other things, he called for a greater shift from this passive support to active cooperation. And that is what we need to find instruments with other countries, such as Kenya and Vietnam, where we can gradually move further towards such trade cooperation and political cooperation, of course, so that support must continue to be maintained in the most fragile villages and regions where poverty is high. But in order to make progress in these cuts, we must first prioritise our priorities in development cooperation, and I think it is important that we focus our development funds in Finland on the poorest regions and people. I also think it is important for Finland to continue to emphasise these priorities, which it has already built for a long time, and I would particularly like to highlight them in order to strengthen the position of women and girls, because it generally strengthens and develops society as a whole. I would also like to point out that we will have more stable functioning democracies, less corruption, respect for human rights, as well as the rule of law, and that we will also be able to do such work throughout the world, that there is clean water and food and that they are produced and managed more efficiently. But then really to this last question, Mr Pirttilahti, about how we can bring companies closer to development cooperation. This is the big thing. I see here a great opportunity for trade and development in Finland to go together better. In the Nordic countries and the Netherlands, good work has been done to ensure that companies have been involved and even successful in developing countries while helping businesses and businesses in developing countries to develop. It is very important to us that developing countries and developing countries also have a better access to world trade and thus to create their own well-being and jobs for people. I heard from a Finnish company that, when it comes to a responsible Finnish company that goes to work in a developing country, they leave with the attitude that they train local people in a good working culture, they teach people about such good practices in working life and respect employees, and so on good rules of working life spread to developing countries as well and we improve human rights in working life. But I do not deny it, as Mr Sirpa Paatero, the previous Minister for Responsibility, said that these cuts will be very difficult and will have to be made difficult decisions. But we cannot avoid it now, because we want to get Finland in shape, for Finland to rise. I would like to remind you that, in the Government Programme, the government has committed itself to a long-term objective of 0.7, and that is what we are working towards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u231	Madam President! At this stage, a few words on these major structural changes in the Government Programme. As I said earlier, I very much expect these structural changes, as well as the government itself in the Government Programme. In other words, pension reform, social welfare solution, regional and central government reform and municipal sector reform have economic efficiency targets of at least EUR 4 billion. The Sote solution is therefore based on a regional model in which the council is elected. This kind of government is hardly needed just for the sake of social welfare. That is why, together with the development of social welfare management, it is also necessary to clarify the whole of the intermediate regional government. All in all, it is now necessary to start preparing this whole whole package of social services, regional government, central government, the role and tasks of municipalities, to decide the big lines, and then to continue the detailed preparation. The regional government reform record in that government programme is very important. It is recorded in the Government Programme as follows: "A decision on coordination between regional and regional government is taken separately to simplify the organisation of public regional government. As far as municipalities are concerned, the government is taking a whole new course and really is putting the word reform into practice. It is clear that changes in social protection already lead to a significant reduction in the functions of municipalities. Instead, the decision-making powers of municipalities and, at the same time, the responsibility for matters and tasks related to vitality will be strengthened. In any case, the most important thing for municipalities is that whatever these municipal tasks may be, the municipalities are now in a position to work in peace. The criteria and deadlines for clearing up the Municipal Structures Act are also repealed. I would like to draw attention to the Arctic cooperation report on that government programme. The programme states that the development of Arctic cooperation must become one of the priorities of the EU's external relations and that EU efforts are needed to promote northern projects. This is a very important policy for us northern provinces. In that early week, the network of northern and sparsely populated regions met and, according to public statements, there had been a desire for a strong northern policy from the EU as a framework for Arctic issues. Let us hope that these can also be brought together in government policy. I therefore expect a very determined Arctic policy from the government. Mr President! Finally, Mr Taavitsainen said in his recent speech that today's young people must be given a solid basis for the future. I fully agree with that. That is why, in this difficult situation, you have to do a very tough but forward-looking government programme. We need to stop the debt. Other solutions would not be fair to future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u232	Madam Speaker! I would like to thank Mrs Korho for the excellent opening up of this regional reform and the opening of the social welfare reform. Similarly, Mrs Viljanen was much better able to put together all these good points, in what way agriculture and the food production chain are being made more profitable, so that we all have a supply of clean, domestic food. Mr President! A few final comments on this debate, just to the end of the debate. First of all, the point worth raising about this government programme is that the household allowance will be extended and the household allowance will continue to be available for care services for the elderly. I consider it to be a very good and positive thing. The fact that the legislation on construction is being made more flexible and that there are overlapping complaints, to put it bluntly, about bullying, is also mentioned many times in this debate. I consider this to be an important point of law. I have already praised justice policy and internal security in this programme during the debate, and I would like to highlight two points which I believe are very good professionally: One is the search for ways of improving the status of victims of crime, and the other is the introduction of child custody and meeting legislation for this decade. We will find new ways to avoid grudging, long custody disputes. Mr President! The subject of this debate has been the educational part of the Government Programme, and in particular the comments made by Mr Niinistö, Mrs Niinistö, have amazed me a little. I do not quite understand what the harm is in our structural reform of education. No one can deny that the government programme also includes savings, but those savings are lower than in the last parliamentary term, the last parliamentary term. And at least myself, when university studies are still relatively fresh in memory, I think it is good that there will be a third semester, also during the summer you can complete university studies. I believe that these savings, which have now been put into education and training, should be made, above all, through the use of digitalisation and the best use of information technology. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his excellent report. At the end of the debate, Mr Paatero and Mr Taavitsainen have used critical speeches and have also taken on board statements from church leaders. However, I think it is important to raise the issue of a strong state economy for a low-income and disadvantaged person. When society, municipalities and the state run out of money, we have no money for social and health services. At that point, we do not have the money for the most vulnerable transfers. Poor guy's best friend is healthy state finances. I support the adoption of this Government Programme of Juha Sipilä as it has been presented to us here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-03-ps-14.u233	Madam President! I am somewhat disturbed by this constant reference to the words of the Archbishop — not just by Mr Kurvise’s reference, but by the reference which started yesterday by Mr Arhinmäki, who has been going on at regular intervals for two days, and for which we have just received an example. The Archbishop took a stand on the social debate and stated that he and other high incomes could be taxed more. The Archbishop is a wise man, and this is a weighty social position, and his position as such does not bother me. What bothers me is that there has been talk here of the archbishop's statement in the way that a higher tax rate would be the solution to our country's situation. The archbishop's exit was related to social equity, social integrity, the fact that high incomes should also be more involved in economic equilibrium than is now planned or planned. If we do so, it would undoubtedly, a little, slightly, increase the tax revenues of the state and the municipalities in the short term. It could therefore slightly reduce the number of cuts needed and, in particular, the tighter taxation of the high incomes could be interpreted as a socially just measure. I agree that the taxation of our high incomes should be tightened, but we must all remember that this tax tightening will not solve the structural and fundamental problems of the Finnish economy. The longer-term problem of our economy is reduced competitiveness, and tax tightening does not improve the competitiveness of any company or entrepreneur, but it does, of course, temporarily increase tax revenues in the short term. In other words, fairness and social integrity are one of the foundations of the tax review, but the movements which would now be considered very cooperative do not necessarily improve the competitiveness of our companies, hence employment and thus long-term tax base of the state and municipalities. We must remember the difference between these two views and what tax tightening means. The words of the Archbishop should not be referred to as if they were a cure for the problems of the Finnish economy. He took a stand on morality, ethics, not on how to balance the Finnish economy.
