ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u1	The second point of the agenda is the topical debate on hate and racism. The debate will be opened by Mr Nasima Razmyar, the first signatory to the debate. The next item is Mr Orpo, Minister of the Interior. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will give the floor in the order that I consider. In addition, I will, at my discretion, give one minute's answer. Let's get this conversation started. Congressman Razmyar, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! "The silence of good people is the greatest These words by Martin Luther King are also very true today when we talk about a common nightmare called racism. Mr President! The time for silence is now over. Racism or hate will not go away by itself. Fear or ignorance do not fade automatically. That is why the Finnish Parliament cannot turn its eyes away. We, the elected MPs of the people, cannot close our ears, and no, we cannot remain silent. Unlike most of the things that will come into this Chamber, this is not a question of politics. This is a matter of humanity, and in this matter every human being is the beneficiary: you, me and all of us. Mr President! October 2015: An attempt is being made to burn the reception centre in Finland. September 2015: Finns make a human wall to prevent the arrival of refugees. September 2015: Bottle strike on asylum seekers' premises. August 2015: Minister Stubb's home will be hit. August 2015: neo-Nazis attack people in Jyväskylä. July 2015: MP announces the fight against multiculturalism. Think for a second about how irrational this sounds. How irrational this sounds! Unfortunately, that is very true, and it is happening in today's Finland. Finland has been a country where only old films have seen bottled. Fireworks rockets have been fired on New Year's Eve. How is it possible that in 2015 the fire bottles and fireworks are targeted at a reception centre? Whose Finnish welfare is threatened by a person who has lost everything in his life? Finland is not a racist country, but the fact is that there is racism in Finland. Racism has even been seen in parliament. It is shocking to note that the hard attitudes of adults have even moved to children on a sandbox. We've seen a video of an adult teaching a child how to hit a different person. It is important to remember that no child will ever become racist unless the adult makes him such a racist. We adults have a huge responsibility. We decision-makers have an even greater responsibility. We need to set an example. What can we do? We could set an example in a constructive debate where racism and all kinds of hate speech are said 'no'. It is important to make it clear that hate speech is never acceptable. Then why is hate speech so dangerous? The reason is that hate speech is only a very short distance from the act of hate. Unfortunately, we have many examples of history, sadly tragic examples of history as to where hate speech leads. These examples can also be found in Finland. Then what can't we do? We cannot close our eyes and we cannot remain silent. We cannot forget history and we cannot lose humanity. Neither do we politicians. A politician who loses his ability to put himself in another person’s position is of little use. Finland cannot afford racism and hate speech. Finland has always been and will always be a multicultural country. Finland's strength and wealth have been that Finland has not had us and them, Finland has only us. We must remember that diversity is a resource both in Finland and throughout the world. Mr President! The violence of extremist movements in Finland is a fact. According to the Protection Police, extremist violence is becoming more common in Finland. In July 2015, members of the neo-Nazi organization attacked bystanders in Jyväskylä, assaulting them. Representatives of the same organisation have also appeared together with a Member of Parliament without interference. The aim of this organisation is to create a nation-socialist state in Finland. The protection police have been monitoring the activities of this neo-Nazi organisation and of extremist right-wing movements for a long time. The atmosphere in Finland has become tense. The amount of hate speech has increased, and various extremist movements have used violence. The decision-makers elected by the people cannot stand by and watch this development. It is now time to update the risk assessment of extremist organisations and to find out exactly how legislation can be improved in order to prevent and prevent extremist violence. All violence and political violence are wrong and unacceptable — not extreme, non-right. Hate speech and racism are also visible in the everyday lives of people in Finland. Racism occurs in schools, workplaces, newspaper columns, online discussions. Even some Finns have been afraid to use their own native language. It's not right. No one should be afraid because he speaks his own native language, which is the official language of Finland. Mr President! Such a development cannot be shushed, unacceptable or justified in any way. Each Finnish influences what kind of message Finland sends to the world through its own behaviour. Finland should be better known for Marimekko’s magnificent prints and sheets, not white sheets. The individual always has a responsibility, but so do we together. To bear that responsibility requires that we do not remain silent; we do not turn our eyes away. It is wonderful that the veterans of our wars have strongly condemned racism. Thanks to them. Mr Sauli, President of the Republic, too Niinistö has clearly condemned racist violence and stated that frustration or criticism must be shown to politicians, not to innocent people. Each of us can show by our own actions that tolerance prevails over hatred, and each of us can show that racism will never prevail over the fact that we are all equals. In the summer, the chairman of the SDP, Antti Rinne, proposed that all parties sign a declaration against racism. It is not a question of politics but of right and wrong, that political parties send out a clear message that no human dignity-degrading action or speech is allowed in Finland. I hope that every party will do the right thing. Mr President! I would like to finish by telling you a little story: over 20 years ago I clearly remember my first day of school. I was then living in Rovaniemi, a foreign town, and this was a foreign country for me at the time. The day before school, I tried to learn at least one word, and that word was hi. I repeated this word in front of the mirror, perhaps a thousand times, so that the next day I will be able to do it at school. The next day came, I went in front of the class, it was my turn, and I forgot that one word. It's about how I was so nervous at that moment. I also remember very well the first recess. I knew that soon I was going to be left alone, and I was sitting on it when the other kids left for recess. It didn't take too long for a girl to come out, her name was Charlotte, and she felt like she was coming along, and soon we were jumping the jump rope, laughing, feeling good. We were all children, and there was really no need for a common language. There are so many good moments in my life, but this has definitely stuck in my mind. I've often wondered what made it so great. Surely, I was confronted as a person — a person who did not speak a language, a person who looked different. It just took someone to take that first step. There are two lessons in this story: The first is that in each of us there is a little Charlotte. We have to have the courage to face people as human beings. Another lesson is that when we do this, a person feels that he is part of a society that makes it easier for him to cope, and I think I am a rather vivid example of it. Mr President! We do not need division in Finland, but unity. We do not need hate speech in Finland, but dialogue. We do not need secrecy and suspicion, but openness and compassion. Finland must not become a country in which people are afraid to be themselves. Racism closes your eyes, hate closes your eyes. On the other hand, tolerance opens your eyes, compassion opens your eyes. When the world returns and millions of people flee the war, Europe is struggling with it. The German broadcast asked the little boy if there were foreigners in his day care centre. The four - year - old Niklas replied: No, there are children. Little Niklas is right. Finns or foreigners are not the target of hatred, people are the target of hatred. Mr President! This conversation came at the right time. It is important that Parliament responds to the problems of society and to the issues that people are talking about. It is up to us what 2015 will be remembered for. Tens of thousands of Finns have spoken out against racism and hate speech during the summer and autumn. Now the whole Parliament has the opportunity to do the same and send out a clear message: there is no place for racism and hate speech in Finland. The time for silence is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u3	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Razmyar for his excellent, touching and strong speech. I believe that we can agree with the hope you expressed at the end of your speech that we are sending a common message that there is no room for racism in Finland. Mr President! Finland has always lived from internationalism. Our wealth is based on foreign trade. Generations after generation have gone to exchange students, more and more students abroad, work in international companies, and there are also a number of people born abroad. Finns are one of the most educated peoples in the world, a people who has travelled from the Canary Islands to the Far East and have become acquainted with cultures. Finns are tolerant and moderate people, people with a strong desire to help. It is therefore wrong for the views of the small extremist minority to be overemphasized in the debate on internationalism, immigration and different cultures. There is a false image that harms Finland, but it also harms us, the Finns. I understand very well the concerns of people in the ever-changing world. Someone is afraid that those who come from elsewhere will take the job, someone is afraid that the state will no longer be able to pay its own social security. Someone's afraid the crime will increase. We also have a natural tendency to fear diversity. However, the causes of social problems are always elsewhere than in people’s diversity. It even seems absurd that the Finnish Parliament should even talk about this in 2015, but it is self-evident that racism is totally unacceptable and unjustified. Human skin color, appearance or origin cannot be used to draw conclusions about their nature, characteristics or abilities. Those who condemn racism are often accused of being naive. I think it's inconceivable talk. The fight against racism is about respect for human dignity, human dignity is not an issue of opinion. The best way to fight racism and hate speech is through openness and more debate. When things are spoken out, it may become clear that the problem is not with people, but what we fear and cannot accept is in customs and cultures. It is not racism, for example, to condemn wrong practices or acts, such as contempt for women's rights. I still find it absurd to have to say in the Finnish Parliament that women have the same rights and obligations as men. We may also be too easy to label people as racists. You may be critical to immigration policy or worry about how Finland will cope with a large number of immigrants without being racist in the first place. In a difficult situation, tolerance is also an understanding of people’s concerns and different opinions. It's a big accusation, on the other hand, to label a racist. Mr President! Although Finland is still a very safe country both in everyday life and internationally, our security is now facing major challenges. Increased immigration creates tensions that have already erupted as hate crimes. Hate speech online is very common. That hate speech online distorts the facts and shapes people's perception of the world and other people. The worst form of hatred is organised anti-social action, or violent extremism. These extremists are a threat to democracy. Fortunately, their activity is still relatively limited, albeit repulsive. Offences related to the activities of violent extremists are reported to the police in about a hundred years. The National Protection Police estimates that only a few hundred people are involved in political extremism in Finland. However, since the riot in Jyväskylä, we have increased the control of extremist movements. There is absolutely no acceptance of violence in Finland — no one. As early as 2012, a programme of measures to prevent violent extremism was prepared under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. The programme is currently being reformed. The new operational programme will create structures and the capacity to prevent violent extremism throughout the country, as well as the capacity to deal with radicalised individuals. Violent extremism is particularly a source of exclusion. That is why, in the end, security is a question of whether our society is sufficiently stable and good, whether it offers opportunities for all, and especially for young people. In the long term, the best way to combat racism and violent extremism is to prevent exclusion. In order for Finland to succeed in the integration of immigrants and in the fight against racism and extremism, we need civil society: organisations, communities, businesses and active Finns. The public sector alone will not be able to cope with this challenge. Mr President! Day politics must remember that work is being done for a better and safer society. Parliament representatives, ministers and leaders of parties must dare to talk about tolerance, pluralism and caring Finland. This is not a government-opposition issue; it is a joint task of the whole Parliament. Finnish society must also grow into a new, open and international world. According to the vision of the Government Programme, Finland is an open and international country rich in languages and cultures. Homes, schools and workplaces should talk about immigration and the many different aspects of it. Mutual trust and cooperation between authorities and religious communities in the fight against violent radicalisation must be improved. Mr President! Finally, Finland wants to take responsibility for helping people in distress in the world. We have to keep the heart warm. I encourage Finns to think about how they can be building in these difficult times instead of breaking up. For someone it is voluntary work at the reception center, for another it is the employment of a new Finn in the company, the intervention of a third racist shout on the street. We must work tirelessly for a Finland in which everyone feels involved in the various possibilities of society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u4	Madam President! It is very important that we are discussing racism here today. We all have the warm heart that wants to do good. But we are all getting a lot of feedback from people who would like immigration, for example, to be addressed, that we should do things differently from what is happening now. It is therefore important that we Members of Parliament are strong when we justify why we are doing exactly what we are doing in Finland and why we have zero tolerance in violence. It is important that we all work in our own communities to eradicate racism in local communities. It is not an easy job, because I know that when we have different backgrounds, many times there is a very different response. This speech, which Mr Razmyar spoke about, gives us all the strength to do the work when, hopefully, we in every single party defend that zero tolerance. It is important that we are also examples of small acts, as our Prime Minister was when he gave refugees or asylum seekers their own home. Examples that we participate in clothing collections or volunteer work, that we go together
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u5	Mr President! There are many things you can understand, but racism is not like that. There must be zero tolerance towards racism, and that is why it is very important that the political parties across the board also jointly condemn racism and also sign this anti-racism declaration. The starting point of the coalition has always been that we cannot accept racism in any form. Here in the speech by Mr Nasima Razmyar, it was very clear how important it is for immigrants to become part of society. This integration into the Finnish system and into Finland and finding your own place in this society is the most important thing. In that respect, all the work that can contribute to this, both in educational institutions, in voluntary work and in working life, is very central, and all these issues we must look at when, at this last wave of asylum seekers, we are at the point where some of them are entitled to stay in Finland and probably to join their families here. I think the most important thing now is that we do not give any place to extremists, but that we are jointly supporting a moderate attitude. The question is precisely how we can build things and not break them. It is very good that Parliament is holding this debate in a good common spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u6	Mr President! The issue we are talking about is indeed important, and it is a matter of initiative. The country's government has a great responsibility, all the people and parties in Parliament have a great responsibility, and I also think it is very important, as the previous speaker said, that we renew in the European Charter of Political Parties our signatures for a society free from racism, which were signed last in 2011 on behalf of the groups. With regard to racial discrimination, this document states: 'Racial discrimination is any distinction, exclusion or privilege based on race, colour, origin or national or ethnic origin'. This is a very important idea, and this is an idea that we must always emphasise. No one, either by birth or by religion or political opinion, shall ever, in any context or situation, be placed above or below, before or after another. The equality of opportunity must be absolute, as must our mutual respect. We absolutely must create a society in which everyone can achieve what they deserve with their own work, their own hard work. It's everyone's right. It is also in the interests of all of us, but it is not a privilege, but in Finland it must be taken for granted, as the Minister said. That's the right word. And with this for granted, I can guarantee that my own group and the government we represent will recognise it as uncompromising, undivided and belonging to everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u7	Mr President! Veikko Lavi sang in his day: "Every man is worthy of the song. Every life is important." This wisdom would seem to be quite high also in the words and actions of all Finns. I would like to warmly thank the first signatory of this debate initiative for having a joint debate today in this Chamber, and at the same time I would also like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the important lines that have been made on behalf of the government. For example, in the debate on immigration, I am deeply troubled by the fact that we Finns often think that certain rights belong only to us. We have the right to go to college, to work around the world. We have every right to fall in love with each other and go somewhere else after love. But when it comes to coming to Finland because of these same things, very often our own attitude — at least the attitude of some people — is very negative. Furthermore, Mr President, I am troubled by the fact that we sometimes feel that we are too overly sensitive to racism. We think that we do not have such a phenomenon, and the statistics speak quite differently. And that is why it is extremely important that today, in this arena, we say jointly that we have absolute zero tolerance for racism. Tolerance is not a strong enough attitude. Even harder is to listen, learn and understand a stranger and a strange person in the past. The hardest thing is to work and act for the whole world’s life: all different — all equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u8	Mr President! Human dignity is certainly not a matter of opinion; racism is absolutely unacceptable. My guest in Parliament has visited a number of immigrant-dominated school classes from Helsinki. On almost every visit, the students have raised the bullying, the calling of names and even the violence they face at school. Racist treatment is commonplace for many Finnish schoolchildren. These children are not outsiders, they are friends of our children, they are friends of ours, neighbors, fellows, neighbors. Finnish primary schools play an important role in combating racism and alien fear and closing the lack of sympathy. Asylum seekers have highly educated but also illiterate people, children and adults. Schools need sufficient resources to enable classes, for example, to be small enough to take into account the specific needs of pupils. Teachers need continuing training to meet students from different cultures and religions. Similarly, teachers may need continuing education for Suomi2 education. Schools should have sufficient resources to keep class sizes small enough and, if necessary, provide pupils with small group education. It is therefore very worrying that the budget for basic education has been cut and is being cut, and I would like the government to be able to take into account the growing need in Finnish schools to take account of:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u9	Madam President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Razmyar for his very strong and important speech. I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior, Mr Orpo, for his strong action against racism. People have a legitimate reason for confusion and even fear. People fear for their jobs, for their livelihoods, for their dwellings. But these problems are not caused by immigrants or refugees; surgical decisions and the economic policy line have already been decided before asylum seekers started to come to Finland even more. But this difficult economic situation is being exploited. Those who are racists, those who want to foment hatred and fear both online and in the marketplace, are taking advantage of this situation. Hate speech is organised, not only for immigrants and refugees, but for different minorities and different political trends. Let's spread false claims and rumors, propaganda. The extreme right and the Nazis organise demonstrations, organise attacks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u12	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Jag vill också börja med att tacka ledamot Razmyar och minister Orpo för deras otroligt fina inlägg toi i början. Jag tror att det är oerhört viktigt att vi som riksdag, som enskilda ricksdagsledamöter, som ministrar, medlemmar av statsrådet visar för Finlands folk att rasism inte kan accepteras i någon som helst form, och att det i dag är lää aktuellt för vårt land som det harvarit tidigare, ännu aktuellare, att jätta ner foten och säga att det raj går inte.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u13	Madam President! In Finland racism or hate speech is unacceptable, and therefore Parliament must send out a strong message: racism, hate speech, discrimination or violence is not accepted, because everyone's dignity is absolute because human dignity is based on human beings, not on their actions or abilities or on their race. It is inalienable regardless of gender, age, status, religion, origin and other qualities or life choices. Mr President! It is also good to have a proper debate on what is racism — I was delighted that Minister Orpok had the courage to raise this issue to the debate — or what is multiculturalism, how to decide which practices represent Finnish culture or multiculturalism, who gets his vote and knowledge, whether it is the right of the people as a whole. At the moment we are witnessing a phenomenon that many call the biggest refugee crisis since World War II. The crisis has led to confrontation, and the debate has become very black and white, especially in social media. Some are clearly doing racist openings, while others are defending the 'open door for all' line. KD doesn't like either line. We do not accept racism in any way, but we do not like the decisions that involve coercion. And that too is something we should discuss. We need the right measures for the refugee crisis, and if we want to manage the current chaotic situation, we need to strengthen the quota refugee system, increase the assistance of the crisis countries and make serious efforts to combat human trafficking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u14	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Razmyar, for your important, timely and emotional speech. I agree exactly: Finland has no place for hate speech, Finland has no place for hate actions. I agree that in this Chamber we must all set an example here. I agree with you that hate speech is a short journey from hate — in fact, a word is an act. The Government's message is clear: There is no place for hate actions and racism in Finland. Finland is tolerant, Finland has room for diversity, human dignity is indivisible. When it comes to immigration, citizens also have fears and fears must be met. We must offer situations, open debates, and also to face fears. Fears must be dealt with, and the best way to deal with fears is to be able to offer situations, opportunities where they can face them personally. It was very important to me that there were a large number of refugees at work in my own company. I got into their wedding situations, to visit their families, and that's how we became friends. Working communities offer these opportunities, parishes can offer these opportunities, various channels of volunteering, neighbourhoods provide these channels. I would like to thank all the Members for the contributions they have made so far, and in this very spirit I hope that we can leave this Chamber with a single message.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u15	Madam President! Mr Razmyar's speech included a touching, personal, genuine story of humanity, thank you for that. The ongoing crises in the Middle East and North Africa have moved people. Many are fleeing wars, and there are also many who are looking for a better life and a better standard of living here in Europe. This phenomenon, which could be said to be an unprecedented phenomenon in Europe on such a scale, is also affecting Finland. Immigration creates opportunities for Finland, but there are also unquestionably challenges. We must also have the courage to speak properly about the problems involved. When humanity and respect for the dignity of all, regardless of the person’s background, skin color or race, the conversation can also be discussed about difficult matters. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party well understands that many Finns are confused and concerned about what the exceptionally high number of refugees and asylum seekers means for Finnish society. Finland must act in accordance with international agreements. We need to be human, but we need to be realists at the same time. We help people in need, but we are not naive. In Finland, they will be given asylum, and only those to whom it really belongs. In order to resolve this situation, there is a need for European and wider international cooperation. Everything must be done to improve conditions in the areas where people have left now. In an exceptional situation, the Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party calls for restraint in Finnish society. We unequivocally condemn racism, hate speech and acts and violence. Today, all the parliamentary groups renewed their commitment to the European Charter against Racism and condemned all forms of violence together. This is an important message about what kind of Finland we want to build. I personally believe that the Finns are behind this line by a large majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u16	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Razmyar and Minister Orpo for their very good and strong contributions. Mr Razmyar, you shyly thought that you were a good and encouraging example of how an immigrant enriches Finnish society. I can say that you certainly are. When we condemn racism and hate speech, it is important to condemn acts of hatred against asylum seekers and acts of Nazi violence. It is also important to condemn, for example, the acts of injury against the Jewish synagogue and also the violent rampage of anarchists, for example, on the day of independence. The current refugee crisis is also a huge challenge for Finnish society. We need to understand the concerns people have in this situation. They should not be underestimated. Perhaps 30,000 to 35,000 asylum seekers will come to Finland this year, mainly from Iraq. However, if, for example, half of them include humanitarian protection in Finland, we have thousands of asylum seekers who have no basis for humanitarian protection and who have no reason to stay in Finland. I am concerned about these thousands of young men who stay illegally in Finland but often live outside Finnish society in practice. What does this mean for our national security and for the security of our citizens? I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: how are the negotiations on a return agreement with Iraq, when will we reach such an agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u17	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Razmyar, for raising this issue. It goes without saying that Finland and Finns should and should also support a society free from racism. Any form of mental and physical offense is wrong. That's not acceptable to anyone. But if we look at the discontent with immigration that has arisen in recent years, the reason is that many do not consider it fair that those who have come to our country on social grounds alone are easily receiving social aid compared to our taxpayers who have been grudging for decades with low wages. There's a huge amount of right and wrong information online. People from Africa and the Middle East are also at the forefront of crime. The new wave of asylum seekers has brought thousands of young men to our country. Many parents worry about their children, as do many women. So I ask the government representatives, ministers here: will the reception centres provide information on Finnish culture and especially on the role of women in Finland? And if not, should it, because it serves all parties?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u18	Mr President! I share the thanks and assessments that have been heard from both Mr Razmyar and Minister Orpo. In particular, Mr Raz-myar's speech was particularly emotional and appropriate to this situation — it can be said that, in a certain way, even historical speech. After all, he's the first MP with refugee background. Mr President! When Finland is hit by various crises, it is good to remember that the recipe for success with which Finland has always survived has always been that the feeling that we are in the same boat has always been carried over the surfes. That is why we do not need division now; we need unity. We certainly do not need hate speech; we need dialogue. As Mr Razmyar said, even after what has happened, it cannot be said that Finland is a racist country, but it is clear that it must be recognised and it is honest to say that racism is also occurring in Finland. In order to tackle this in order to prevent it, it requires recognition of the phenomenon. A special responsibility rests with all adults. No child will become racist, but we decision-makers have a special responsibility in what kind of signal, what kind of message and what kind of atmosphere we want to send. That is why it is important for Parliament today to hold a topical debate on racism and extremist violence in Finland in a good spirit. In the summer, the chairman of the SDP, Antti Rinne, proposed that all parties re-sign the anti-racist declaration in order to send a signal to a broad society that the parties would not accept this. Today, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups have contributed to this commitment and I think it is a very good message. When, in this declaration, there are still demands for parties in this charter, I believe that this is also a strong signal to the parties that they will commit themselves to this Charter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u19	Mr President! We Finns have always done well in our history when we have been united, making sure that everyone is involved in the development of our society. I recently listened to K.J., the first president of the Republic. Ståhlberg’s inaugural speech, a fragment of it, was quite thrilling. He strongly argued that it is up to the government to ensure that every person living in Finland, every Finn, feels that the right is on his side, that everyone's rights are safeguarded. It is worth remembering that this has been said in times when Finland’s foreign policy situation was unstable and we were just getting up from a civil war that divided the people badly. We can learn much from this speech by the first President of the Republic today. The task of the government is to ensure that every person feels that the state is on his side, should be the way of thinking when we start to fight racism and inequality in Finland in all our activities, parliament, government, government decisions, municipalities, education and education. That is why I think it is important to recognise that racism is indeed discrimination, bullying, even physical violence, and the victims of the debate on racism are those who are already experiencing this in their everyday lives. Children in particular, even if adopted children who have lived almost their whole life in Finland, experience it only because they look a little different from the average Finns. The victims of the debate on racism are not those who call upon them not to express their opinions on other people or on restricting their rights in that social media and to break their own bad feelings. You can talk about everything. It is worth remembering, however, that no one has tried to limit the debate anywhere, but it has been tried to limit the fact that people are not discriminated against, bullied in Finland in 2015, and that is where all movements must set clear limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u20	Madam Speaker! When you want to criticise politics, the message is usually addressed to political decision-makers. In my view, insulting an immigrant, threatening the children of a volunteer or attempting to burn refugees alive is something quite different from criticism of immigration policy. Those who define themselves as immigration critics are deeply concerned about freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. We all have the right to freedom of expression, but the new heralds of freedom of expression encourage one another to use their freedom and express their opinions. This can be done, among other things, by spreading grisly online under cover of a fake profile, by glueing notes to lampposts in the dark evening, by smuggling a swastika on someone’s door at night, or by shooting fireworks at families with children who have fled to war. However, this group forgets to mention that, in accordance with the Constitution, more specific provisions on the exercise of freedom of expression are adopted by law. Inciting crime, inciting against the people, defamation and illegal threats are not crimes of freedom of expression, but crimes according to Finnish law. In fact, the right to freedom of expression means that freedom of expression is not restricted by pre-sensorship. In retrospect, however, everyone responds to his words. Writer Jari Tervo’s blog on racism brought out the injured, victimized immigration critics. The debate on the matter itself, that is to say, the turning of hate speech into hate speech, was less. Silent silence in hate speech in Finland is silent acceptance of racist rioting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u21	Värderade fru talman! Den ox discussionen är mycket viktig. Jag är oroad över det allt hårdare samhällsklimat i vårt land. Det är viktigt att vi som riksdagsledamöter tar avstånd från rasism, främlingsfienlighet och våld. Det är mycket bra att statesminister Sipilä snabbt och tydligt har tagit avstånd från våld och rasism i samband med den Senaste tidens hedelser. Det statsministern och Presidenten säger har mycket stor betydelse och sänder en mycket klar signal till allmänheten och till finländarna. Men också vad vi ricksdagsledamöter säger i frågan har stor betydelse, och det är viktigt att också vi är tydliga och starkt markerar mot hatbrott och raism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u22	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Razmyar for this brilliant initiative and for this powerful, touching heart speech. And I hope that it could even be part of our Constitution as an annex, as it were, as a reminder of what elements our nation was made of. Racism is a mental cancer that destroys society from the inside. It should not be tolerated, neither in Finland nor anywhere in the world. It should be disbanded, rejected. Racism is pride. It must be recognized as a sense of spiritual superiority, in which we regard ourselves as better people than others while we tread on one another. Madam President! Finland must be and Finland can be a racism-free zone in Europe, where every human being, wherever he comes from, feels safe and that no one violates his dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in our hands what the atmosphere is in Finland. Today we can make decisions in which we begin to transform the Finnish atmosphere and culture into a people-loving and one where everyone has a chance to succeed. Under no circumstances should Finland accept racism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u23	Next up, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u24	Madam President! To begin with, thank you for this important debate. In fact, I would say that whether it is hate speech or racism, so much no laws and penal provisions are the main thing here, in my opinion, but the main thing is attitudes. We have often spoken in this Chamber, and in this place of work, when I myself started here — and I am speaking frankly — I faced an attitude in which the popular movement I represent was not acceptable to everyone. The representative, Mr Razmyar, has brought this matter to the public by saying that he can go to a coffee table with a basic Finn. Great. I think this is the right way. I will give you a very brief personal experience. I came from Copenhagen to the airport. Somalikuski picked me up, and then we went for a ride to the Railway Station. On the way, we discussed things, and of course he asked where I came from, what I was doing, and at some point it was revealed that I was a representative of Parliament. An important question: which party? The Finns of Peru. The eyes the size of Teevadi in the rearview mirror, and he started to sort things out for me. We talked all the way up to the Railway Station, and I told them on the way, among other things, that I do not care whether you are purple, yellow or what color you work. He said that he works two jobs and pays taxes to Finland — is he not welcome? I said, yes. We made it to that railway station. He jumped from the driver's seat, ran into the trunk, handed me the bag and his hands, and said, "I thought all the Finns are racist. I was wrong." The more we face each other, the more these suspicions fade away. That's why this kind of conversation is important. We do not need racism in this country, but we need direct speech, including on those shortcomings. We must also put up with the people who say and criticise properly and not always say that you are wrong and we are right. In my opinion, then we will be able to move forward in this debate. I hope that's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin the debate. I would ask those who wish to participate in the debate to register by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u26	Mr President! It has been tremendously good to follow this debate and, as it were, air has been cleaned up. Yes, I think that we should speak directly about things under their real names. Not to be criticized, but also to be bold and uncompromising in the values that are important to Finnish society. Thank you very much for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u27	Mr President! I believe that racism and hate crimes are best prevented by doing otherwise: by showing compassion and helping people in need, whether they are immigrants, people already living in Finland or people living in Finland. I think that each of us can set an example in a normal everyday life of this work. These extreme phenomena have been discussed here, which of course is part of this debate, but I would like to remind you, however, that the majority of Finns, fine Finns, have in their own way resigned from racism and have not gone into this hate speech or false accusations and finger-sweeping, but have done exactly what a civilized person does. I would like to thank all Finns who have done otherwise by their own example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u28	Madam President! Racism and hate speech are wrong, and according to European Social Survey, Finland is one of the least racist countries — we can even congratulate ourselves. Racism is very often linked to multiculturalism. Countries with several ethnic and religious groups within the same borders are typically the cradles of racism,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u31	Madam President! This debate initiative is extremely timely. We cannot deny that extremist violence has increased or that hate speech has increased. As most previous representatives have pointed out here, we parliamentarians also have a duty to act as opinion-makers and we should react when we hear hostile speeches. A couple of years ago, when I gave a speech at the General Assembly of the Council of Europe against racism and hate speech, I began to receive hate mail in my e-mail. This illustrates the very problem of hate speech: we must make the voice of hate speech opposers heard more loudly than the voices seeking to silence us. Finally, I would like to remind you of what Mr Razmyar stressed in his opening speech: no child will be born racist. We adults must set our own example, our own model, how to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Racism is a regression and is particularly dangerous at a time when progress is needed. I would like to thank Mr Razmyar for his very important initiative and, in this context, I must also say that he has shown his courage and that he has refused to remain silent — because he himself has been the target of hate speech, and he demands great courage to come here to the whole nation to say what he said. I believe that he will not receive most praiseworthy speeches, but will receive most of these mean, hate speech-colored speeches in his e-mails and possibly in his text messages. And this also tells us of the atmosphere we have here in Finland. Those who dare to speak out against hate speech and racism are also subjected to very strong attacks, and this is something we need to tackle in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u33	Madam President! This is the moment when you don't talk about paper, you talk about the heart. Here's a thousand things I could start with. One is that there is still talk in this Chamber of people from immigrant backgrounds as objects. Wake up, my dear friends! We're the decision-makers. We have been in Finnish society for a very long time. We are building this society just as much. We're Finns. This is the kind of attention to start with. The other thing is, I'm actually pretty disappointed. I am disappointed by the vague speeches that have been made here. In every direction, they try to please you in some way. I don't care if your name is Ahmed or Jussi or whatever. This society is your society. And discrimination and hate are completely unacceptable. Let us give a clear message, Parliament needs a clear message from the outside, not any vague speeches. Now a good message from the outside. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u34	Madam President! A very topical question, and this debate should have taken place despite that, even if we do not now have such a flood of asylum seekers. I would, of course, like to thank Mr Razmyar for opening this debate, but I must say that Minister Orpo is in the right place in this situation and is in keeping with the situation – for that too. I think we should be reasonably firm on what we are discussing. This slicing and talking around a little bit, I got to hand it to you, I'll take my ear, too. That we are here now so tender that and that when all is well and good. I think we should have a fair, transparent debate. If we disagree with certain things and views, they must be granted. Now it's important to keep your head cold but your heart warm.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u35	Mr President! Giving up racism is not enough. It's not enough for us to talk here. There is also a need for action. The condemnation of racism also requires the identification of racism. That is why it is important to talk about racism, Minister Orpo, and not to be afraid to recognise it. It is also important to identify discrimination — even when you are guilty — and to try to reflect on the reasons why someone else has been mistreated or classified in some way as inferior or less valuable. In fact, in my opinion, multiculturalism, its learning, such social learning, is more about recognising that it is itself built, shaped and self-made by someone's culture that means that you don't see someone quite objectively, but you see them subjectively. I think it is our decision-makers’ fault — at least partly — that there is so much racism and hate speech in Finland. We have not intervened sufficiently. All studies have said that there is more discrimination in Finland than in other EU countries... [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeEssayah. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u38	Congressman Biaudet, time is up. — — — — Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u39	Madam President! Mr Razmyar and many others here have quoted the important idea that the world's problem is not so much a bad one as a good silence. Learning to accept diversity and live with it is a challenge for every person to grow up as a person, starting right there with his own family, school class, or, for example, a working community. Understanding and identifying the full dignity of a very different neighbor will also help you to understand the responsibility of your fellowman, including those who live far away. In this respect, many NGOs have done excellent civic education through development cooperation. I would therefore like the government to consider carefully whether, in this situation, it would be a good idea to cut these NGOs, which are doing extremely important work, so that we can understand the dignity and neighbourliness of every human being.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u40	Mr President! "And guess where it's going to be. " This old Finnish proverb has often been quoted by the builders of this republic. It is also suitable for this debate and for this issue. First of all, we need to look at ourselves whether our attitude is right before we overly blame each other. This is about human dignity and how we view people. The second thing that has been quoted by the builders of this republic is that 'the land must be built by law' and it applies to everyone, it also applies to hate speech and it applies to extremism. We must build this land in such a way that everyone can experience this land as their own. This is what Kyösti Kallio, the long-standing President of this Parliament, said in May 18, shortly after the end of the war: 'We must build this country so that there are no whites and reds here, but those who can experience this country as their own.' And this principle
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u41	Madam President! Give the children a world or give them a football, for example. Important issues have been discussed here, and I would like to raise the issue of prevention and anticipation. EPK, a football club in Espoo, collects football equipment for refugee children and adults. There's a collection in the hall. Everyone can take extra supplies. KyIF is a church Numme sports club that has set up a football team for refugees. So sports is a thing that connects. With sport we can create new friends, and everyone is welcome there, and there is no matter what color you are, what your name is — everyone is welcome. Children and young people are the ones who change the world. Schools have Nice School programmes, and today, very early in the day, it will be tackled in the event of bullying or racism, for example. It's a very strange thing for a lot of kids. So let us do all we can to set a good example for young children because they change the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u42	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on how we deal with other people and, in particular, with the fight against racism. It became clear to me here that we should also discuss what we are doing in those provinces when we discuss it. Gradually I visited a gas station in Kajaani, where, of course, I was invited to a table when there was such a parliament, and at that time this human wall was just formed in Tornio. It was then to point out that you should not go along with this type of thing and you just have to mourn the fact that you use the Finnish flag and, for example, the lion crest in these things. I agree with everyone here that we must have zero tolerance for racism and we are all Finns when we come here. Of course, my background is that I myself have accompanied my parents in Sweden from childhood and so on and I have seen how the Finns were accepted there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u43	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to say that I am very proud that Nasima Razmyar is a representative of the Socialist people's ranks. It was wonderful to hear him speak. Mr President! We politicians have emphasised the responsibility as opinion leaders for this debate. Racism and hate speech must be condemned at all levels of society; in all situations, people who are subjected to racism and hate speech must be defended. Mr Juvonen raised an important issue, the role of civil society as mediator. A few weeks ago, I listened to the broadcast of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, where a football tournament was organized in Lahti. There were people of different ages in Lahti, both from asylum seekers and from the People's Republic of Finland. It was nice to listen to the talks of the children and young people who said that here we are building together. This is a very important issue for NGOs and civil society in taking on this caring role.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u44	President! A very important initiative and a very important debate. I myself thought that when we condemn racism in this Chamber, it is important that we take care precisely that it does not remain as such a hypocritical statement or idea that when we do not yet have the racism in this society, now that we say 'no', it does not land here. It is important that we genuinely remember that racism is part of our society today. There are a huge number of people out there who are exposed to that racism every day and that makes their lives terrible at the moment, or it fills their lives with violence or, as it were, the feeling that it is not possible to move forward in this society. I just want to say this out loud because it is part of that recognition. In order to get rid of prejudice, hatred or racism, we must genuinely acknowledge and see the experiences of these people. That is a necessary thing; we cannot, as it were, take such a shortcut. Then I would also think that when we talk about anti-racism, it does not yet involve the economy or what benefits each person receives or is employed, as if what he gives to society, but it is the fundamental value, that fundamental human right, and then the other social debates come, how people adapt to this society, how we integrate, what is their contribution or what is their contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u45	Mr President! There have been very good speeches and a few somewhat more vague speeches here today, but I think it is important to say and acknowledge that racism is not in any way a necessary phenomenon in a multicultural society. Racism is not a natural law, it is a choice. Just as Mr Razmyar said at the outset, no child is born racist but can later grow up to be racist, so you can also grow out of it. It is also good to remember that Finland has always been a multicultural country. It is a fact, not a question of choice. The most important thing is always to face a person as an individual, not as a representative of his religion or group of people. Everyone must be equal in Finnish society and before the law. What is very important today is that we do not become numb to racism and hate speech, but we all always open our mouths and do things against racism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u46	Värderade fru talman! Racism, xenophobia and extremism all depart from the idea that there are us and then those others, the others, the different ones, those who do not belong here. They assume that we want to define Finnishness, what it is to be like us, as narrowly as possible. But citizenship can't be that, and it's never been that. No country that has set out to make citizenship a leading project, as narrow and strict as possible, has ever succeeded. Even Finnishness has always been the melting, absorbing of other influences. Finnish is Swedish, Russian, German and much more. Aleksis Kiven Finland was multicultural. Our Finland is also multicultural. If we don't accept other influences and others, we'll never evolve. Finland will then decline. That is why xenophobia and racism, nationalist extremists are so harmful because they are fighting against natural development, a development that has always been for the benefit of Finland. The advantage of a small country is that citizenship is defined as widely as possible... [President MariaLohela : Time to go. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u49	Madam President! Racism springs from fear, and fear causes hatred, and hate is followed by these unfortunate acts of violence that we have seen in Finland this autumn. It is said that we should not use round speeches or speak calmly here, but I would still like to say that questions and doubts must also be allowed in the debate on immigration. The silence of questions, the failure to answer questions, to be transparent, does not allow open door days in reception centres, causes racism. I hope that we will have the courage to answer questions, even a painful debate. Because we can cut back on racism. Mr President! The third sector has done an excellent job, as has been reported here on sports teams. In Southern Ostrobothnia, the Youth Society has done a great job in receiving asylum seekers, and even the Defence Forces have been a place where many immigrants have integrated into Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u50	Madam President! We can talk about immigration, we can talk about many things, how people can be integrated and so on, but when I talk about round talk, I tried to say that this is something that genuinely affects people's everyday lives, and we need to be aware of this. I know that this is a very foreign matter for many people, but it is a matter of people's everyday lives. I'm being contacted a lot of times a week. Just Finnish people, even mothers, talk about their children being mistreated in the store because of their skin color. I hear from the bus drivers that they're spitting on. The thing is how we see our society, whether our society is such that we allow this to happen, and whether a just, equal and equal society is one where we do not see these things. That is why I would like to have such a good and serious debate and not one that goes in every direction, well, that kind of round talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u51	Madam President! We have rights and obligations, no one must have privileges. Rights include physical and psychological integrity, obligations to accept differences and different opinions. No one's legitimate interests should be violated, under any circumstances or on any unjust basis. In Turku, in markets and in social media, racism and tolerance that are often perceived as a counterweight to it are widely discussed. People are labeled as racists and named in many different ways. People who do this often swear to the names of tolerance. It is regrettable that there are people who demand tolerance from others, that is to say to accept their opinions and ideas, but these same people do not tolerate the fact that there are other opinions. I hope that this kind of thinking will be overcome and accepted with passion and violence, not only by the one who owns it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u52	Mr President! This happens quite often that there are two extremes, as it were, racists and then there are human rights people or defenders of the Finnish Constitution. I cannot understand that the Finnish Constitution is an extreme, that is our basis for our common dignity. It is very important that we consider how we talk about these matters. Many times when it is said that racism is being dismissed, then perhaps it is by mistake that we use a language which, in fact, gives us the impression that in some way we accept the inferior treatment of other people or the division that Mr Adlercreutz was talking about here. They are not opposites; we should all share fundamental rights, human rights. That's the starting point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u53	Madam President! Racism is not an opinion; racism is a crime; racism is a discrimination against people; it is a discrimination against people because of their background. It is now extremely important and absolutely essential to distinguish two things: The fact that we are dealing with false claims made with the purpose of stigmatizing people for the purpose of getting people against one another, and that they are being addressed and said that such talk is not good enough. That is completely different from saying that people should not have opinions. This is the problem in this debate: when false claims are thrown out and when they are refuted and said that is not true, it is claimed that they should not be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u54	Madam President! This discussion started with the fact that it was found that bad things originate with the fact that good people remain silent. If this is true, then Finland, or at least the Finnish Parliament, will be fine, because good people have been here a lot. The second thing I am a little concerned about is the same concern that Mr Razmyar also expressed in his own speech that our small nation divides itself or divides itself in two, stigmatises one another with various axlets. In that sense, I feel that this is a rather important debate, because, as Mr Orpo rightly said, racism is a very serious accusation and that accusation should not be branded with anything at all. If our debate on immigration policy — which speaks of quite the right problems, especially when it comes to uncontrolled mass immigration — is reduced only to a debate on the fact that someone has the wrong opinion about it, then we are rather our own to feed
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u55	Mr President! Good people here have been in the voices, but we do not need to be lulled into the fact that this debate has somehow dealt with this problem. The atmosphere has changed in Finland. The limit of acceptability has shifted, and various punctuation, stigmatisation and abuse have in some way become new normal. The water line has moved further away. This is worrying, and this debate must continue, and good people must be in the voice here and in society. Let us not accept racism, let us not accept any kind of incitement to hatred, let alone violence. Mr President! It is also a matter of Finland's reputation abroad, Finland's international reputation. But, of course, it is also a question of what a good life is here in Finland, for all of us in Finland. It is the responsibility of every human being now to ensure that we consider Finland to be open, international and tolerant, and this debate must continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u56	Madam President! This debate and today's statement from the parliamentary groups is, of course, a very strong expression of opinion and the border has been clearly stated. Mr Razmyar, I dare say, the moi speech was touching. There were things right, and it was touching and moving in every way. Minister Orpo also finished his excellent speech on the question of inclusion. I think he was very right about that. I think in that way that hatred and its kind of thinking and action are not very well conceived in such a society where everyone feels equal in terms of opportunities and also in terms of access to security. And then, on the other hand, such a society with the characteristics of a class society, great inequalities, aggravating things, can also provide a basis for hate phenomena in the worst case scenario. A common task is to ensure that we avoid that path.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u57	Mr President! Indeed, criminal law also provides protection against racism and hate speech. What, then, is hate speech and racism, not to bring out the facts? For example, years ago, the Finns raised the problems of our integration policy. How'd it go? True Finnish politicians were labeled as burdens only because we raised public facts about statistics. Today, the inefficiency of our integration policy is a generally accepted fact, and the Greens, for example, proposed reforms to enable asylum seekers to work as soon as they have arrived in the country. I personally believe that it is the basic Finnish immigration policy that reduces racism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u58	Mr President! Mr Hongisto and a number of other representatives have wondered here whether racism is something else in the debate and whether it thinks it is somehow better. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, the fact that you are fighting racism means that you believe in equality and equality between people, and the racist is the one who wants to discriminate against other people, putting himself above others. It is therefore a common task for all of us to combat racism and there is no extreme for it. Its alternative is simply that we all make sure that everyone's rights in Finland are fulfilled. That is why it is very important now to recognize the fact that a large part of the questioning of people's motivations and the making of false claims of different kinds of things, what Mr Arhinmäki has brought up, distorts the debate. I do not like the fact that the motives of poor Finns who need social security are questioned when applying for social security. Most people need support when they apply for it, and it is up to the authorities to assess whether it belongs to them. In other words, in the rule of law, these things are decided by the authorities, and it is up to us to be human and not to label them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u59	Mr President! To Mr Niinistö, of course, we are all opposed to racism, but the problem is precisely that when, for example, we criticise immigration policy or the shortcomings in it, the problems, then we get the stigma of the racist, and that is what it has often been about. A few Members have spoken here about this recognition of racism, which is what it is. I myself have worked with immigrants who have moved to Finland for 12 years, and just as much as Finns may be racist towards immigrants from abroad, these people from abroad can also be racist towards both us and each other. I have seen the Albanian's hatred for the Serbs, the gang fights between Somalis and Iraqis, and I have heard the Turks' evil speeches about the Kurds. As Finns may sometimes be racist towards foreigners, the same is true from the other side, so that this racism, which we all condemn, is not black and white, but can also be white and all other colors in between.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u60	Mr President! We agree here that racism should be condemned, but I think we do not agree with what racism is. I believe that racism is a reduction in the dignity of a group of people or a member of that group. And one part of racism is that our group is preferred to the other group, and this is the structural idea behind racism. We in Finland speak easily with stereotypes. It's simple. Sometimes it's even funny. Or at least it's a joke. It bends well to tweets, it bends well to social media and fast slogans. But it doesn't tell the truth about people. Behind both a good person and a person who behaves badly is not an ethnic group, not a citizenship, not a religion, but an individual. If we cannot understand this difference, then we will not be able to understand what is at the heart of racism. I believe that we should move forward in this debate, that we would understand and agree with what this racism is. But there is also structural racism, and that is what we have in Europe, and this is particularly true for Roma communities. And when I know that our minister Orphan is a good person
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u61	Madam President! I thank you for the excellent speeches that Mr Razmyar and Minister Lindström made earlier in this regard through the stories in a very touching way. At least I believe that this brings us closer together. I would also like to thank Mr Orpo for his policies on immigration and for this speech, in which he also stressed the fact that talking about the problems of immigration policy and the current situation and highlighting its problems is not racism. Regrettably, even in that area, the axlets are a little too loose. We must also have the courage to talk about irregularities. According to the Legal Institute, rape statistics for a population with an immigrant background are 8 times higher than for the general population. We need to deal very closely with the disorderly behaviour. In my opinion, zero tolerance in these matters concerns the general population, it concerns immigrants, and an open debate is another way in which the situation can be tackled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u62	Madam President! Practical examples remove prejudices, which are also a path for racism. After all, when the KuPS game was played by an Iraqi audience shouting Banzai, it was a rather thrilling experience in the presence of an otherwise silent audience. Finnish strawberries would no longer have been picked after 2000 without a foreign labour force. Now we have a very large number of people in the country who have other and different kinds of work. In my home town of Kuopio, there are almost 100 different citizens, and they speak almost as many languages as Savo's dialect. All in all, I am proud that we have been able to make solutions in Kuopio, Suonenjoki and Siilinjärvi in relation to the Hospital unit of the Story, which secure a place for about a thousand children, young people and refugees. Mr President! When we have to deal with these issues through decisions by the authorities, I would ask the Minister for Justice: is it possible and how will the case-laws be developed with regard to the fact that decisions can also be taken more quickly, because this is also a certain type of question of legal protection for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u63	Madam President! The most racist speeches usually begin with the words 'I am not racist, but'. I think this tells us a lot about the climate in which we are currently living. Racism is a strong word, and almost no one wants to voluntarily register as a racist. The limits of freedom of expression are effectively confused and different concepts are played quite widely, especially in social media, and unfortunately some of the decision-makers are also doing so. It is quite clear to those who want to seek solutions and those who want to foment fear and prejudice. I personally feel that we in Finland have a lot to learn about how to talk about immigration. Immigration challenges Finnish society, and solutions to these challenges can only be found through joint reflection, not by extreme escalations, not by hate speech, but also by blame. Finally, when it comes to people's distress, need for help and dignity, I should like to say that it must be remembered that it is always an individual and a unique life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u64	Madam President! Prevention is of the utmost importance in almost all areas, whether it be sickness, crime or racism. We know that doing so is very far defined by human well-being and, on the other hand, long-term inactivity is very destructive. It is frustrating, and it can also rob a person of self - esteem. So I ask the ministers — many Finns are asking about it today — what kind of legislation we have on how quickly we get people from different cultures to work in Finland, no matter what the job is, even if it is only temporary, because what is the best guarantee that the native population will accept these other cultures. And we should pay attention not only to speeches but also to these works, because these acts then shape people’s attitudes and especially acceptability.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u65	Madam President! First of all, a big, warm thank you for this important topical debate. Overall, I believe that this debate has been very good and well-founded and has proved to be very appropriate. Indeed, racism and all hate speech are totally reprehensible, absolutely reprehensible. In this respect, we must also have genuine zero tolerance in practice, not just in words. How, then, from now on, because there really is racism and hate speech in Finland? I think it will be very important in the future how we will act in practice and how we will take this common anti-racism message to our countries of origin, to those people when we talk to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u66	Mr President! I, too, would like to join those who have expressed their thanks for this debate and for starting it. Mr Razmyar's speech was very touching, and I must say that for the first time in Parliament there was a drop in the eye. It was a very open and deeply human speech. Thank you, too, to Minister Orpo, who has carried out a difficult task in a skilful, responsible and moderate manner. It has been discussed whether this debate is good or bad. However, I would like to assume that this is a good thing and that there has been a good spirit and a common commitment here to tackle these extremes, not to accept them and to be prepared to set an example. I take this debate as a good thing and the promises made as genuine commitments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u67	Madam President! It is clear that hate speech should not be accepted, and I believe that Finns are capable of hospitality and kindness. And mostly Finns are hospitable and friendly. This may easily become the impression that Finland is full of racists when it comes to discussing it, but this is one extreme phenomenon that only a very small number of people can do, and that is why we need to understand that Finns are basically hospitable people. At the same time as it is important to condemn hate speech, it is equally important to accept disagreement. That also means freedom of expression and acceptance of opinions, even if they are not the same as their own. And in that sense we must be a language in the middle of the mouth when we condemn racism, that we do not condemn a person who is concerned about pouring it out of his own evil or his opinion, but that he too has an opportunity and a space in this society. I believe that Finland will be able to discuss these difficult issues as long as it is given a chance for everyone and will not start beating sides and other things too quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u68	Madam President! I too would like to thank Mr Razmyar for his very important topical theme and touching speech, as well as Minister Orpo for his good approach to the matter. Many representatives have made a good speech about civil society, as Mr Juvonen pointed out, and Prime Minister Sipilä also spoke of the different forms of volunteering. I think it is important that we recognise that NGOs, the third sector that is doing this valuable work, also need support for it, such as the integration budget. Now, if you look at the integration funds of the Slot Machine Association, for example, the government might think that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u69	Mr President! When discussing this type of subject, even minor shade differences are significant. Tolerance, which many of us have defended here — tolerance is not enough, however, is needed more. Tolerance is something that we accept. When we tolerate something, we look down a little bit like the upper part: I will tolerate you, even though you are like that, I will accept you, even though you are different. We need a more open attitude and a more open policy. I would prefer to talk about cultural openness, openness to meet different cultures. Then it is a matter of our rejoicing in diversity. When Mr Eerola here presented various countries and situations where racism is stronger and others slightly weaker, you mentioned that in North America it has gone well between different cultures and there is less racism. I doubt that. I would understand that in the United States a great deal of space has been given to different cultures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u70	Madam President! Representative Tuppurainen spoke well and said, among other things, that the atmosphere in Finland has changed. I totally agree with him, and I'm sure you do too. One thing we have not discussed: Why has it changed? Why, for example, have online conversations in Finland gotten out of hand? The reason why anonymous comments are allowed is often justified by the fact that otherwise there will be no debate on the web pages of magazines and that, if signatures are required for these debates, freedom of expression will be restricted. Are we prepared to continue by adopting a practice that insults other groups of people, discriminates against people and incites racism? I think this is bad practice and we have the right to intervene. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: could we not do something about this because it would be the first thing to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u71	Madam President! An extremely important debate, and it is very clear here that a great deal is being said about our own attitudes, our prejudices, and also about the need to talk about the fear and the fear of our citizens. Of course we should talk about it. But then we also need to assess what we are afraid of and who is more afraid. The one who comes across the Mediterranean and does not know whether he will ever get there, whether he will ever see his family, what kind of treatment he will have in the country where he will be, and so on. Where does that fear come from, and what could we, as Members of Parliament, do to alleviate this feeling of fear and to welcome these people in such a way that they feel equal, that they receive good treatment and that they also receive fair treatment for their asylum applications? In my opinion, we all still have things to do. We, too, need to consider how we express ourselves so in conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u72	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about good people. I think we have 200 good people in this room. Of course, the most important task of this group is to ensure that the safety and public order and stability of all people in Finland are maintained. I do not approve of violence and I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber accepts violence against any party group or religious group, no acts of hatred against the Greens, no acts of hatred against the Finns. But I think Mr Kääriäinen was on the right track that the lack of work and this economic recession are one of the reasons why we have these problems. I believe that asylum seekers should quickly be brought into the field of work trials, and that sensible action should immediately be made available to them, for example, in municipalities or organisations. The improvement of the employment situation in Finland and the break-up of this recession will also reduce racism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u73	Madam President! This debate is a bit similar to that of the Soviet era, when the news was such affluent. If there were any faults in the Soviet Union, the journalists were attacked, at least, and other representatives. Among other things, the Minister said that very often people move from hate speech to action. I have a little example here: In spring winter I received a death threat, one, a few weeks ago the last. A month ago, the Evening Sanomat told me that the same man would have bombed the Iraqi army base in northern Iraq. This is the first Finnish suicide attacker. The Pakistani Isis man has a Pakistani background. The news said that suspicion of a Finnish suicide bomber in Iraq forces the protection police to consider national security. These are issues of concern and a lot of contact is being made with me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u74	Madam President! The Finnish debate on immigration often reminds me of the judgment of Juhani Aho’s work, which well describes how stereotypes, strong accents and erroneous conclusions about the functioning of another camp drive the motives on which they are based, and often this leads to the feeling that in many places the importance of rational thinking and momentary situations is emphasized. If we really want to learn from history and end the chain of hate speech, we have to genuinely listen and face each other. Together with Congressman Hakkarainen, we have done this at Viitasaari gym.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u75	Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Salonen and then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u76	Madam President! It has been mentioned here in some speeches that the problems of immigration should not be mentioned, that it is branded racism. I find this strange thinking because, for example, the left has raised many of the problems of immigration and integration: too long you have to wait for a decision on asylum, whether positive or negative; there are far too many queues for language teaching; education in Finland is not sufficiently well taken into account; there is no conversion training to take advantage of their own abilities; there is still high unemployment among immigrants. We need to talk about these and think about solutions to them. Madam President! What is essential is whether the purpose of these discussions is to solve the problems — to ensure that people are integrated into this society — or whether these problems are raised with the aim of driving people out of here and driving people against other people. That is the big difference when it comes to the problems of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u77	Mr President! Many MPs say they have noticed that Finland is mentally returning to the black and white era. I feel that we are on our way to a society where you are defined as something because of your position, your religion, your birth, your skin color, or your values. In such a land of black and white truth, only right or infidels live. My own truth is so strong and emotional that dissidents become enemies to themselves. Enemies are hated by hate speech and even action. Thanks to enemy camps, we'll find out about this as quickly as you'll be guilty of anything but ourselves. It'll help our emotional recession. There is no acceptable or understandable racism; there is only unacceptable racism. It's about right and wrong. It is particularly important that Parliament does acts to eradicate racism in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u78	First Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u79	Madam President! The representative, Mr Rossi, asked about speeding up the case-law, and yes, the Ministry of Justice is investigating this matter. The first measures are already in place, i.e. from three judges to two judges. But that big question comes from this appeal process, and that needs to be settled. It's not a simple thing how we can make it faster. Of course it must be possible to resource more, but we know this economic situation. But on the other hand, it is worth prioritising. Some things may not be dealt with because of these things so that we can speed up this activity. These things are being clarified. Mr Eestilä and Mr Kurvinen raised him to employment. I've been accused or praised, no matter how much you want to see, no matter what kind of thing: when I'm an EK's errand boy, when I'm what. Last time on social media — I did not take it as a hate speech, do not misunderstand — I was accused of being Astrid Thors, Congressman Östman asked if this anonymous threat should be tolerated, hate speech. Don't put up with it. I myself have often wondered about this same problem. Why are people given permission to use a nickname to bark at someone with no sorrow? They are not just racist in this case; they are others, but they are targeting us politicians. Well, we have to put up with everything, but not this. In this respect, it is great to note that local newspapers have tightened up their modernization, which is what they are doing. I think this is good, but it is not enough. In that sense, I will take a serious look at whether something should really be done about this, because yes, you have to have the nerve to say with your own face and name if you have a point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u80	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u81	Madam President! At first, just a few words about immigration, which was not the subject, but what has happened in Europe and Finland since the summer, has changed our whole thinking. Of course, there have been those who have said that the numbers of refugees in the world are high and that Finland, too, as part of Europe, may be the target of large migrations, but of what was ahead in the summer, few people in this Chamber still spoke in the spring. But it has made us rethink everything, both the reception of asylum seekers and all the processes involved. Under the leadership of Minister Lindström, we will have to consider issues relating to integration at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy: the setting up of reception centres, the return policy, a common European immigration policy. You have to think about everything in a new way. We are facing a completely new situation, and this challenges the Finnish society, including the atmosphere that prevails in Finland, and this debate, this time, really came to the Count's time, an excellent debate. Thank you on behalf of the government for the good, constructive spirit that was here. What I hope is that all of you and we all convey this message to the Finns, giving them the right information about things. Prejudice is precisely a belief, not knowledge. Passing on the right information, conveying the spirit of this conversation to ordinary Finns who wonder what happens in the world, what comes out of this — they crave the right information, I have seen it in hundreds of encounters during this task, and no conversation has been wasted. I say that no debate has increased prejudice but has created a more constructive atmosphere. I hope that we are all doing this work. This debate would provide an excellent basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u82	Mr Razmyar has the last reply to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u83	Madam President! Thank you very much for this and thank you again to the Minister for his excellent speech. It is wonderful that this debate has taken place here today. Another option would have been that this debate would not have taken place at all. I think we needed it. Very good speeches have been made here, but of course this debate must continue, and this is really just a start on the direction we need to go. It is true that it is extremely important to recognise and recognise racism. There was a lot of talk about everyday life here. People who are watching this here at the moment are wondering, 'How can I intervene in my own everyday life?' Of course it is important, but these people, ladies and gentlemen, also need an example from us. The decision-makers have a great responsibility in what kind of example we set and what kind of debate we give. Opinions and freedom of opinion are a great thing. In fact, it is one of the finest Finnish values I feel and recognize. But racism is not an issue of opinion, and I hope that this debate will gradually get us over it. This debate was needed, but it is even more important to continue the debate. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u84	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015. Mr Berner, the rapporteur, will begin the debate. Here you go!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u85	Mr President! The discussion on the position of Yleisradio Oy, the funding has been very lively. The Finnish Broadcasting Index has also been frozen for this year, and it is now proposed that the index freeze be extended to next year. The proposed freeze means that the funding of YLE will not increase next year but will remain at the level of 2015. The Government’s proposal to amend the Yle-Tax Act prepared by the Ministry of Finance does not have a direct impact on the financial position of Yle-Tax, as the tax revenue and the amount of Yle’s appropriation do not have an immediate link with each other. However, the proposed index freeze contributes to enabling the amendment of the Yle-Tax Act to be made. Since the '40s', matters relating to broadcasting have traditionally been decided on in parliamentary cooperation, and the government does not intend to change this state of affairs. There is no will to change the line, that is, a change in principle in the decision-making process on the YLE. The compensation to be paid to the Finnish Broadcasting Company will continue to be decided by Parliament, the management and control of the company will continue to be exercised by the Board of Directors elected by Parliament, and the guidelines for the Finnish Broadcasting Company will continue to be drawn up in parliamentary terms. The proposed Government proposal concerns only the freezing of the 2016 index revision. The Government Programme mentions the creation of a Parliamentary Working Party on the Finnish Broadcasting Company. The group's work has been scheduled to begin at the turn of the year, but we have the will and will to get the debate on the YLE immediately in parliamentary order, and from that point of view we are prepared to set up a group this week so that it can organise itself next week. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups of the government parties have made a well-considered proposal that the preparatory minister and the chairman of the parliamentary group should not come from the same party. From this point of view, I shall propose that the parliamentary group be chaired by a delegation. The speeches have also raised the issue of the funding of Yleisradio Oy being part of the central government finances framework. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the guidelines for YLE will be drawn up in a parliamentary manner and that the inclusion of the appropriation in the framework cannot change, for example, the level of funding of the company. Absence of funding of the company always requires a decision of the Parliament, as the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is governed by law. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the Finnish Broadcasting Company also participates in austerity measures alongside the state's economic situation, especially because, at the same time, commercial media are undergoing a major change. Participation in savings does not mean that the importance of universal radio as a fundamental pillar of democracy should be underestimated, on the contrary. Yle has a strong role, especially in domestic content production and in all equal supply regardless of the level of living and income. Yle is an independent actor under the direct control of Parliament, and we want to respect and respect this principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u86	Mr President! Indeed, YLE plays a very important role in Finnish communications and in the field of freedom of expression. Through radio, television and the Internet, the radio is practically accessible to everyone in Finland, if not on a daily basis. It is very important that this is done without additional political guidance, and it is an important factor in the realisation of Finnish freedom of expression and also in the promotion of Finnish culture. It is also important that a national broadcaster may produce a programme which is not always tied to the fact that it must be commercially available. Of course, this is particularly important for many minorities, I am talking about Finnish-Swedish culture and raising its culture and also its Finnish-Swedish opinion. The same applies to other important minorities. It has been a long tradition since the 1940s, 47 years ago, since Lex Jahvet, that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is under the control of Parliament and that governments are not going to regulate the activities of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, nor its economy. This solution of 47 C.E. was led by the unfortunate fact that after the war, the YLE was turned into a one-sided sound horn and its policy became over-regulated by government considerations. Since then, there has been a significant and important and only possible policy for the national broadcaster and its capacity to operate and for the legislation to be organised in such a way that the whole Parliament is involved in it without a government-opposition limit. From this point of view, it is regrettable that this government, both on the basis of the solutions adopted in the context of the Government Programme — later on — and in the context of the budget debate, has taken steps to make unilateral changes which have not even been reported to the parliamentary groups, not to mention that they have been the subject of a normal debate and an attempt to form a common position. Once implemented, this will, of course, jeopardise the independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and its belief in this independence. This is not improved by the fact that, at the same time as the financing conditions for YLE are being weakened, the Prime Minister is asking YLE for space for live broadcasting to present its views on a matter which is highly controversial both here in Parliament and in the labour market. This is precisely an example of the development that the national broadcaster and the national government should not see. We know that there are countries where public service broadcasters and their resources are being used ruthlessly to promote government activities. That's a culture we shouldn't go to. I do not want to believe that this is also the starting point for the current government, and we are not in such a situation, but it is appropriate to say that if the border does not become clear at this point and not everyone commits to joint processing of broadcasting legislation and funding, then we will be in a bad way. Now we have more information. It has been decided, as the Minister said above, that the funding of YLE will be transferred to the spending limits. This decision is also unacceptable. It should be pointed out that, just as the Finnish Broadcasting Act was recently renewed, it was argued that the spending of the Finnish Broadcasting Company will not be transferred to the state framework and thus effectively into the central government finances and in the same discussion with other government expenditure. This would be the case if we were to accept a situation in which the expenditure of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is permanently examined in connection with other expenditures, that this activity should be made dependent on and confronted with other necessary expenditures, which are beginning to be quite close to being applied for through the debate. When we talk about frameworks, it is the government’s way of controlling total expenditure and taking it into its own regulation. Until now, all the parliamentary parties have wanted to oppose and assume that separate legislation has been adopted precisely because the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company has been secured and does not depend on the will of the government or on the resentment that may have been caused by the news. I defend the position of YLE in circumstances where at regular intervals you also get the feeling that why, and I guess not, and now there are unreasonable criticisms, but even after that we must have the ability to tolerate criticism, even when it comes from the national broadcaster. I welcome the fact that the Minister said that the government was prepared to step up parliamentary work on the role of the Broadcasting Company and on the financing of legislation. It is a good sign, and I hope that this could become a new start for the management of YLE's affairs, so that decisions are made according to the old tradition that YLE is an institution controlled by Parliament and decisions are taken in Parliament without government-opposition status. However, the condition of this is that in this working group all things can be decided from an empty table, and not by telling in advance what the government has decided and then requiring those who will come to the table later to accept this line. I believe that, if history is viewed through, all phases of the YLE, almost all or all will end up that this procedure, in which YLE is controlled by the Parliament, is the right procedure and that we will return to a culture in which the government does not make unilateral decisions on YLE matters, but those decisions will be made in this Chamber so that the Finnish people can be confident that YLE will have free operating conditions for independent and critical journalism always towards those who hold power, whether they hold power in government, parliament, business or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u87	Mr President! As has been said here, of course Yle is Parliament's radio and it is very important that we stick to that independence, and it is also good that the work of this parliamentary group should start as soon as possible. I believe and hope that all parties will go seriously into that work. Perhaps now, however, as far as the previous speech is concerned, that this has not been quite unusual, although perhaps there was much to improve in the process. It is now a matter of freezing the Yle index for a year, and a similar solution was taken jointly in the past. So it's not a terrible miracle. As far as these frameworks are concerned, I understand that all expenditure which is not cyclical should in principle be within the framework, but that does not mean that this changes the operating conditions for Yle so that Yle cannot operate independently and with respect for all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u88	Mr President! It is quite obvious that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is and must continue to be the radio under parliamentary control. That is absolutely self-evident, and this should continue to be the case. Of course, the fact that the index check will not be carried out for the second year in a row means that Yle will now be able to adapt to activities of almost EUR 10 million, and even though Yle is a large organisation, measures will have to be taken there too and that adjustment will require careful work. It is good that the parliamentary working group has now been brought forward, as the Minister has said here, and it will reflect on Yle's tasks and role and funding parliamentaryly, and the work will certainly be done properly. With regard to that timetable, I would like to ask: when is it to be expected that the parliamentary working party will then be able to complete its work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u89	Mr President! It was good to hear from Minister Berner that he and the government are now going to bring forward the start of that parliamentary working party. But then I listened a little carefully to Mr Satos' speech. The question whether or not the funding of the YLE should be within the framework is precisely the question that must be decided in this parliamentary group, because it is important that YLE remain the YLE of the Parliament. When there is neither Makera nor Ara funding in the frame, it seems so wonderful that the government has so far acted in such a way that Yle has now been framed. I hope that there will now be an agreement on this, that this debate will take place in this parliamentary working group and that Parliament, together with all the parliamentary parties, will decide on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u90	Mr President! For my part, I was also a little concerned about this speech by Mr Satose from the point of view that, as if you were underestimating, first of all, the fact that the government has deviated from the parliamentary line by unilaterally deciding, without Parliament and opposition as a whole, on this future index freeze, and the worst thing about it was that you explicitly said something about this spending limits procedure, as if in a defensive tone. I repeat what Mr Heinäluoma said in his excellent, good, visionary speech: it is very important that Yle's position remains independent and that we do not have the starting-points in the parliamentary working group, that the table is not empty and that we do not go together to discuss these issues in parliamentary terms. There are really big things at hand here, and that is why, Mr President, I do hope that after this compromise, we will be able to leave the empty table and explicitly respect the principle of parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u91	Mr President! Perhaps in response to what Mr Henriksson and Mr Viitanen have said here: I think it is quite clear to me that this parliamentary group is also considering this issue of frameworks. I simply said in my own opinion that, in principle, all expenditure — which may also mean what Mr Henriksson mentioned — is not cyclical — should be framed, because I understand that this is the idea of the whole spending limits procedure, that only expenditure outside it, such as expenditure such as unemployment security, cannot be predicted and that more money should be put into it if it grows. So this basic idea was, as it were in my own mind, but of course this parliamentary working party is considering this issue, considering funding, considering the role of Yle and also its relationship with commercial media.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u92	Mr President! First of all, it must be acknowledged in this Chamber that the fact that the Yleisradio is the radio of the whole Parliament and under the Parliament is not a matter of course, is indeed linked to what is the process of dealing with these issues. Perhaps now, as we have heard, the basic problem has been that Parliament would have to take a position on these issues on the basis of a government proposal without a parliamentary procedure and that would have broken this for granted, it would have been no longer a matter of course. That is why, last week, the parliamentary groups of the opposition parties still called on the government and the Prime Minister to return the YLE to parliamentary preparation and, indeed, to do so on a clean table through a genuine parliamentary process. That is why it is good that Minister Berner announced it today, and I would like to,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u93	Mr President! Because of my own work and personal history, I would not like to say that the neutrality and parliamentary control of the YLE is a sacred matter, but I would like to stress that we must insist that this is an untouchable matter. In that sense, I think that the framework for this debate is fully justified, because it is not just a matter of budgetary or accounting, but much more than that. This principle has already been violated by the fact that this freezing of the index was not the subject of a meeting among the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. Equally, such a marching order would be correct if these spending limits were to be discussed, then the parliamentary working party would be discussing them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u94	And Mr Torniainen and Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, and then Mr Heinäluoma, who caused this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u95	Mr President! Yle is now and will continue to be a radio under parliamentary control and must continue to be an independent information intermediary. That must be the common view and the starting point for the future of all of us in this House. This is a so-called index freeze to the current level, to the same level as it is today and which has previously been decided jointly for this year. This freeze will probably also affect the future supply of YLE programmes, that is a fact, and probably the staff there too, that is a fact. Personally, I would see that when the YLE has to adapt, however, the focus there would be on maintaining and developing regional activities. Thus the YLE is the radio of the entire people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u96	Mr President! I too would like to thank Minister Berner for bringing forward this call for a parliamentary group. Decision-making is part of Yle's independence. In that sense, I would say that independence and transparency are, in fact, almost sacred things when we talk about democracy. It doesn't matter where Yle's funding is decided. I think it is very important that this parliamentary group really should start its work on a clean table so that the questions of the Yle index, the Yle tax and whether the financing of Yle is within the framework or outside would be the issues for which this particular group will decide. Representative for Satonen: I do not care what the government has decided about Yle now in relation to whether or not it is in the framework of the Yle, if you think that there is a parliamentary agreement, however, that Yle is outside the framework. But now you are leaving Makera and others. Outside the housing fund framework, the role of the housing fund has not been raised in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u97	And now for the last response to this debate, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u98	Mr President! This debate on the spending limits is important in such a way that, when this financing solution was changed, there was a major debate about whether, when moving from the licence fee to this new general tax, it is certain that this funding will be independent in such a way that it will not be tampered with by the government. This was the great concern of journalists not only in YLE but also outside YLE and many decision-makers. We have now seen that, unfortunately, this debate on the spending limits will then open up this tampering with funding past Parliament and beyond democratic decision-making here. This is an important question. As has been pointed out, for some reason, Makera is not the fund, that is, the agricultural fund, which would have been brought into the framework. It continues to operate outside the spending limits. In addition, this spending limits regulation was exactly the same when this Yle law was adopted. At the time, everyone agreed that Yle was out of the frame. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Kivelä for his speech. It is important that we should be courageous about the ranks of the government parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u99	Mr President! Perhaps I could start with the fact that it was justified that Parliament, when dealing with this issue last week, ended up leaving this proposal on the table. This was justified not only by the fact that we are here enough to discuss such an important issue, but also by the presence of the rapporteur minister, but above all by the fact that it was important to have an additional period of time in this way, as it were, for this consideration to be given to how matters of general interest should be dealt with. Undisputedly, as has been demonstrated in this debate, both these processes and the decisions themselves posed problems which, on the basis of the agreement reached by its parliamentary groups in December 2011, would have jeopardised the independence of Yle. And that is why the opposition has actually kept this issue on the table, you can say, throughout the autumn, and we have called for parliamentary procedure and we did so in the middle of the year. I really agree with those thanks and thank the Minister — certainly on behalf of our opposition parties — who I also know was actually active in this matter, that now these matters relating to Yle can be returned to parliamentary preparation so that it can be done by bringing forward this parliamentary working party. It is also extremely important that sufficient space is provided for this work so that preparation can take place according to their principles, as the parliamentary groups have in due course set out at different stages, both in 2010 and 2011. And when the news was also heard that this group's veto will change and it will be passed on to the assembly, I am also saying here too — and I am sure that other opposition parties will agree — the hope that whoever will take the lead in this working group will take into account the aspects that have taken place in this debate, and the position in the working group will actually take place without any government-opposition limits, without any proposals that the government has already made to date. The reason why it was a good thing that this was once again covered by the lime lines is that if it had happened that Parliament would have to take a stand on the proposals that have been made without a genuine parliamentary debate, then you could say that there would have been a risk that something irreversible would have happened. A few words about this framework when we talk about the basis on which this work is good to go on and continue: I believe that the basis for this work must be the agreements that have been concluded so far by the parliamentary groups. It is precisely in this December 2011 agreement that this framework solution is linked to this independence. In other words, once the parliamentary groups have concluded that Yle is kept outside the spending limits, the agreement states that, in order to safeguard Yle's independence, it is justified that Yle is not included in the spending limits and can then assess how this rhymes with the spending limits rule. But, as has been shown here, ultimately what is in the framework is a political choice — in relation to Ara and Makera mentioned above — and, in this case, that political choice must be made in this Chamber among the parliamentary groups on the basis of parliamentary procedure and preparation. On my own side, I really hope, and I agree with those assessments and wishes that this will now have a fresh start on the subject of Yle, I believe, and I believe that we can now return to that good parliamentary procedure. And I hope, then, that this process will serve as a lesson to us, that we will remember this in the future, whoever is in the government or the opposition: it is important that matters, particularly those relating to the universal radio, are considered not only from the point of view of public finances, which is also important, but also from the point of view of parliamentary consensus, which has been the principle and, above all, from the point of view of independence, which is a prerequisite for pluralist information, which is, by the way, referring to this previous debate, one condition for freedom of expression. And as we well know, freedom of expression has limits, and in this respect Yle has an important role to play not only in promoting freedom of expression but also in maintaining a good culture of dialogue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u100	Mr President! It has to be said that this was a very important message, which Mr Lindtman said at the end of his speech, that it is important that every single party has the strong will to keep this tradition and a sensible, wise, mutually agreed matter in place, that now and in the future, decisions on Yle will always be taken together between the government and the opposition. Somehow it seems to me that it has been a matter of course for a long time and for many of us, but every now and then when such stumbling blocks occur and this principle is called into question, I think that if never in the future we would make the mistake of becoming a kind of government handicraft. It is extremely important that we have independent media, that we have a strong role to play, a high-quality programme offering. I think that a strong public service Yle is a good principle and must continue to be adhered to. I would like to point out that repetition is an asset. It is important that this working group starts off on a clean table — it is good that it was brought forward — and I do indeed find it worrying that the principle is even being considered that the funding of Yle should suddenly become part of the framework, because it is actually the case that the government will then be able to tamper with it, and that is when the role of parliamentaryism, which is recognised jointly here, will be undermined. This is a big question, and this task force is now going to set out on this point. President! At the end of this speech, in the presence of the Minister, I would now like to raise general concerns about the future of the media. All in all, it is good that another working group is also considering this, and I would remind you that during the previous period, among other things, liquidator Tuomas Harpf explained the future of the press and made quite a number of proposals. Some of them have not been implemented, and I hope that in the future, you will also be able to study these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u101	Mr President, Herr Talman! There are things and decisions that can be considered pragmatically, but then there are things that need to be looked at from a slightly more principled perspective. Since independent communication is one of the cornerstones of an open and democratic society, I believe that this too should be seen from a principle point of view. It's not about technology. It's about a big social principle. I think Mr Kivelä, the chairman of Yle's Board of Directors, said a very important thing: the role of Yle, this independent communication, must be untouchable in our society. I regret that, in this way, the government has put this independence at risk, and at the very least, it has raised questions as to whether Finland will be able to rely in future on the possibility of a reliable independent information intermediary for a national broadcaster, regardless of the government. President! This principle of parliamentary consensus has been a very wise line in Finland, and I think it is very important to note — even today, when we heard the happy news from the Minister that the appointment of a parliamentary working party is being brought forward, and when I myself have noticed that I am also a member of several such groups, and there have been many types of working group around this parliamentary principle — that it is not a parliamentary majority decision, but a principle of parliamentary consensus. This would be a very good thing to clarify in this debate that it is not enough for everyone to have access to the debate, but that all decisions are taken in the form of consensus decisions, i.e. unanimity. Mr President! I understood, Minister Berner, when you went through the technique of this spending limits procedure that you did not consider it problematic. I personally find it problematic, not only because of the considerations of principle, but also because I have explained what has happened in other European countries where, for some reason, the funding of public broadcasters has been transferred to other forms of state funding. International examples serve as warning examples: in the Netherlands, the tax model was introduced in 2000 and guarantees were given that the government would not influence the level of funding. But that's not what happened. There, seasonally, the various governments have made cuts to the national broadcaster’s budget. In Iceland, too, the financial permit fee was waived in 2009 and replaced by such a special fee, which all taxable persons and also entrepreneurs in Iceland pay. But then there was the economic crisis, and this money earmarked for RÚV’s activities was subject to the rest of the budget and earmarking was abandoned and no inf-lational corrections were made either. In 2010, the State took part of the money for other purposes and in 2011 the level of funding was only 86% of it originally promised. So, President-in-Office, all these known international and European examples of recent years unfortunately tell us that, although there is good will, there can always be situations where they have not been kept.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u102	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, what is this about today? The question is that the government parties had decided to break the agreed rules on the status and financing of YLE. Parliamentary consensus had been forgotten and decisions were to be taken forward by a majority of government parties. All of this was contrary to everything that the parliamentary parties agreed together in 2011 on the financing and independence of YLE. When you listened to Minister Berner today, you are at least slightly retreating from this idea, which would have transferred Yle's funding to the relevant government. I would like to thank you for starting parliamentary work on this issue this week. We must remember that the original timetable would have been after the turn of the year, we were talking about the so-called Vanhanen working group, and this working group would have started its work after the actual decisions had already been taken. It is very important that this policy change came and that the task force starts its work immediately. Mr President! When I think about the work of the parliamentary working group in the future, it should take a firm stand on all the matters on which the government's position is already known. After all, the Government has decided not to carry out index checks on Yle in 2016, and it has also made a decision to transfer Yle's funding to the yellow budget book in the future. When reading the Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2016-2019, we can also say that by the government the index cutter applies to the entire planning period. I hope it will not be the end of the parliamentary task force. Yle has worked in practical everyday life in such a way that for the past three years the costs have been kept at the same level. When the government plans for 2019 are added to this, Yle’s funding would therefore be down by nearly 10 years in a row. If you think about the past three years, work has been done and worked with less resources and about 200 employees have left the payroll. The average price of imports from the country concerned developed over the period considered as follows: Yle will have to adjust its economy for about 70 person-years. This saving cannot be seen in the provision of public service content and in the development of the company. The representatives of the various parties have backed up the need for regional supplies from the point of view of independent information, employment and the people of the regions, and so have I. All these wishes will have to be discussed at some point, as well, if we are prepared to reduce its resources in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u103	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your visit to the Bureau of the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, where it was very open to discuss the situation and possible development challenges with regard to this big issue. Thank you, too, to Mr Kivelä, Chairman of the current General Board of Finnish Broadcasting, for his excellent, clear expression of what this is all about and what we should stick to. We can continue to congratulate the previous Parliament, which passed a wise law to finance a public service broadcaster. According to today’s news, in Germany, the collection of a per capita television charge is moving towards a system of penalties whereby a person who has failed to pay this per capita television charge may lock his car in the street by the authorities, much as a person who has made a parking error can do. Fortunately, such a system was not created for us. Mr President! The whole and functioning of the media market has a key impact on how freedom of expression is implemented in Finland. This subject we are discussing is also linked in this way to the previous topical debate, in which freedom of expression was also mentioned. A strong public service YLE is needed for freedom of expression to be achieved, and alongside it — and this has also been stated many times in Yle’s Governing Board — a diverse commercial media, a functional commercial media that is obliged to carry out domestic news and also content production. Both of these are needed to ensure that the field is versatile. The Government has decided to set up two working groups to investigate this media market. Anssi Vanjoki's working group will examine the conditions and means for improving commercial media, and this has also been discussed in the General Radio Board. This overall media situation has been analysed and the Board of Directors has been illuminated in many ways during the last term. It is known that these things work in the same field — which is the interdependence between them, then it is less clear. The task of the second working group, which has been mentioned here, is to clarify the role, role and funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. These two working groups then operate separately. The role of Parliament as the owner of Yle was deliberately strengthened in the reform of the Broadcasting Act and funding when the previous TV fee was waived and this new Yle tax was created. In the earlier system, the level of the licence fee was decided by the Government of Yle on a proposal from the Board of Directors. The pattern went so that the Finnish Broadcasting Board introduced a proposal to the Board of Directors, a view of the level of the TV fee that should be calculated. The Board of Directors examined the matter, was able to cut it off slightly from the Government's proposal, and then the YLE's proposal went to the Government, and it often happened that the Government then cut some of what the Board proposed, depending on the financial situation. But the reform wanted to get rid of this role of the Government and bring the Yleisradio closer to the power of the Parliament. The reform thus defined the starting point for funding and then the index by which the level of funding is maintained is not increased but kept at the level of cost development. We were therefore seeking a system in which variable political winds would result in as little instability as possible for Yle. The stability of this system is at stake. It is therefore important that changes to funding are decided by parliamentary consensus, not by a simple majority, as Parliament decides by a simple majority on the money within the framework. This is the reason why the funding of Yle should be outside the framework when it is decided in a very peculiar way by parliamentary consensus, by consensus. This will best safeguard the stability and capacity of Yle to strengthen its independence. When a decision was made on a working group to clarify Yle’s position, would it not have been wise to wait for the results of its working group and only then look at the conclusions of what is to be made on the Yle Index or the transfer of the framework or the index over the longer term? Now we did what we did on two tracks, we took things forward, we're just getting the investigation started, and that's what we're doing. But today we heard the good news that this working party's work will be brought forward and hopefully we will then start working on a clean table so that all the parliamentary parties will be represented there and then we can look at the whole and think about what the change might be for this financial sector, what will be done, what will Yle's role, how to relate. I find it somewhat inconceivable that this funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and these small changes to the indexes would have much more than symbolic significance for the success of commercial media. Of course, the audiences are largely the same for YLE and commercial electronic media in particular, but the financial impact of index freezing on commercial media activities is virtually non-existent. The difficulties in commercial media are largely due to reasons other than YLE. Broadcasting also brings new opportunities for commercial media through partnerships. Commercial media is plagued by this economic downturn that eats the advertising market, by international media activity that comes from abroad to Finland with a strong avalanche, and Finnish commercial media is fighting in it. This is the type of thing that weighs on it, and then, of course, on the print side, because of the digitisation of this information, the digitisation of entertainment is not only the print media but also the print media is in trouble. None of these are the faults of YLE or the result of the funding level of YLE.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u104	Mr President! Mr Kantola has indeed said an extremely important truth that these must not be put against each other, this national broadcaster and then commercial media. Indeed, we need both, but we must not impose an obligation on the public radio to be so bad that it is not viewed by anyone so that the viewers or listeners will then go to the commercial side. Yes, the situation where we are now, where the YLE is good and it has managed to keep the listener, the viewers very high in the midst of this media breakthrough, is much better. Then it's a positive blackmailer, as we've seen. Today people are no longer slaves to a single channel, but they follow many channels, and thus this quality remains high.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u105	Mr President! After all, the Minister's word must always be trusted, and Mr Berner made it clear to him that there is an extremely important principle for him that, in future, we will also have an independent broadcasting company under the control of Parliament, and I think there will be political agreement on this among the various parties. However, when these speeches have been made about the position of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, it has put wild imagination into motion elsewhere in society, i.e. outside the parliament, precisely in those who want to rock the boat in a certain way with the idea that the situation in the media field would improve if Yle's position were to deteriorate. I refer to the previous speakers. This would certainly not be the case, but the weakening Yle would mean a gradual decline in our field of communication and also that independence would suffer. In my new role, I have received a great deal of citizen feedback from the side to the side, even demanding the removal of Hannu Taanila from the YLE.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u108	Mr President! The Yle financing model was reformed during the last parliamentary term. The aim was to ensure the continuity and predictability of Yle's funding so that politicians would not interfere with it every year. The decision involved all the parliamentary parties, both the government and the opposition. After lengthy negotiations, it was decided to waive and replace the licence fees with a general tax which, unlike the licence fees, would guarantee Yle a predictable and sustainable financing base. Broadcasting plays an important role in enabling diverse and pluralistic communication. Parliament has therefore considered it important that the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company should be decided by all the parliamentary parties together and not by Yle as a political or political instrument, because its independence would then be affected. In particular, in order to ensure the independence of YLE, it has been welcomed that YLE operates under the authority of the entire Parliament and that legislative changes are agreed in parliamentary terms between all parliamentary groups. It is important that the Sipilä Government does not depart from this principle. The Government should not depart from the previous line of action decided in December 2011 among all parliamentary parties. If the government starts tampering with Yle's funding, You become a government broadcast, and it's no longer a parliamentary radio. The funding of Yle will then depend on the values of the parties in power and the pluralism and independence of communication will no longer necessarily be secure from political decisions. Free communication is a prerequisite for open and diverse communication and democracy. The need for meaningful and information-based communication is growing, and YLE has already had to adjust its operations considerably as a result of the cutbacks made. For this reason, the view of the Green Parliamentary Group has been that the Yle index must be left alone. Information must be independent of decision-makers in order to enable citizens to have an open public debate on the consequences of decision-making and to make the voice of different groups of people, such as minorities and the disadvantaged. This is the direction of the Yle-Law, the reform of which has been included in the Sipilä Government Programme. If Finnish democracy, the independence of information and the freedom of expression are important to the government sitting on values, the government will also ensure that the funding and tasks of Yle will continue to be decided in parliamentary terms among all parliamentary parties. The view of the Group of the Greens is that the funding of Yle should be returned to the parliamentary direction of all parliamentary parties. The process in which the financing of Yle is decided is part of its independence. It is fatal for Finnish democracy and free communication if this is not understood. I find it a little symptomatic and worrying that the sitting government has been about to move the funding of Yle within the budgetary framework. In other words, the government has been prepared to break the parliamentary agreement that the funding of the public radio will not be tampered with in the political context. It is also obvious that, at the same time, the government has been prepared to exclude Ara and Makera from the spending limits, even though there is no corresponding parliamentary agreement on their position inside or outside the spending limits. Nor is there any legal constitutional reason for transferring Yle's funding to the framework. It is therefore a purely political decision if it is to be taken. However, I would like to thank Minister Berner for being in the process of convening the parliamentary working group on the funding and role of Yle on an early date. Decision-making in matters concerning Yle should be based on cooperation between all parliamentary parties, not on a unilateral decision by the government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u109	Madam President! The preservation of objective information in any country and, above all, in democracy is of paramount importance. Objective communication has been maintained in the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and efforts have been made to keep and carry it forward. At the moment, however, the situation is that we may need to give some thought to what is meant by objective communication. If we are talking about news, it is an old definition of good news that news is an immediate aging event here and now unforeseeable. Unfortunately, at the moment we are not able to say things like this on the YLE — not as soon as they happen. Regional activity has been reduced in such a way that after 3 p.m. the news of the day is sent to Tampere, Turku or Helsinki, where they are tied together and driven out when the news is due. In other words, the news comes from the tape, it's no longer live broadcasts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u112	Mr President! The idea of transferring the public service budget to the national budget is not new,but it isrequiring. It's dangerous. That would mean that Yle’s budget would lie open for three months in the autumn on Parliament’s operating table, and if something happens during these months, it is said that a pile of plates is on the table that irritates the government, irritates Parliament or some of Parliament, there is at least the theoretical risk that Yle’s budget will be tampered with for political reasons. Under no circumstances should such a risk be taken; it would be very foreign in Finnish politics. That is why, Minister Berner, it is a very good thing that you have decided to give this matter to Yle as a whole the parliamentary debate that the public service and the public radio of Parliament deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that, in the course of this debate, a minister is present and that there have also been three chairmen of the parliamentary group. It tells us that this is a matter of particular importance. As an exceptional representative of the opposition, I would like to turn to the Minister and say that I would like to give you full recognition to the work you have done for Yle, because it is clear to us that you, for your part, have tried to influence the government as a whole to understand that matters relating to Yle are under this parliamentary sieve. In that regard, I am, of course, very sad that we have come to the conclusion in this House that we have had to raise this angle with the support of the Minister, but I admire the fact that you have now received a race within the government. It is good news for the whole Parliament, but also for independent Finnish media and free journalism, that Minister Berner's great thinking that these issues are in parliamentary hands is now being taken seriously. I really hope that, when you start this work, all these things are on the table and you are genuinely doing good work for the YLE, because it is an important Finnish choice of values — a way of thinking that there is also public service in the field of information and that it should continue to be, and even if no other magazine moves, at least in this respect, every Finnish person has the opportunity to be included in this communication. In that regard, I would like to stress that I think this message of yours is a great achievement and, for my part, I would also like to be able to support it in this Chamber. I wish this project good luck and success, and I would like to emphasise that whenever we are at a parliamentary table, we will have to endure the fact that everyone must be on board until the end, and we must genuinely give this debate free rein. Then we will make the great history, since the 40s, in which we genuinely say that the YLE is a parliamentary radio. Mr President! Now half the talk has been used, but a few snacks and reminders for this trip. First of all, it is good to note that, having assessed the YLE and its activities — i.e. this public service, the scope of its tasks and the individual tasks — as well as the level of funding which will then serve this task, but also, overall, the fact that YLE has taxable customers, i.e. those Finns who safeguard the existence of this YLE, and when it is dealt with, it has all been based on very long and laborious work. One night there was no Yle decision made earlier in the last government term. Its value is that it would be good to calm down now to think that the old system that we used resulted in us having television license inspectors at Finnish doors, the system had already expired and had to admit that new ones were needed. But there were three governments actively trying to find a Yle solution. That is why it is particularly important that, when this solution was found between all the parties, the opposition was allowed to be on a clean table here, and until the very last, the word was as free as any other. Eli had eight votes, and when everyone had the same voice, there was a Yle solution. In this regard, when this Yle solution arose then in the autumn of the first year of the 2011 reign, and by Christmas this reform was completed, such a political declaration arose, and there are very important points of view in this statement, which were based on the very fact that we were going to leave things to be agreed together in the future. In other words, the Presidents then called for this parliamentary solution to be maintained in the coming years. It held both for index cuts, for the funding level or tasks of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. In this respect, all of them read in this statement. Since I have already quoted these points in the last debate, I am simply trying to sum up this starting point. On the basis of this statement, the Government's decision in principle was prepared, which was then issued in 2012. I would really like to point out that, in principle, it confirms once again that it is precisely on a parliamentary basis that the issue of broadcasting can be dealt with. It also confirmed, in principle, that these major changes are only being made together. In this respect, this decision of principle was repeated by the statement made at the time by the parliamentary groups. This was the basis for the creation of the Yle-laws and this legislation on Yle's tasks and the status of Yle. Now, when we go through the general arguments carefully, these same old lines are repeated, and in this respect it is important to remember in Parliament that the Yle solutions will continue to be under this parliamentary protection, and it has been said in particular that Yle's independence is based on the fact that all things will be done together in a parliamentary agreement. Since I have already quoted these phrases here the last time this matter was left on the table, I shall now conclude so briefly by wishing you luck and success in this work. I say to Minister Berner that hold on to your hat, it is a windy place, but with eight different voices, with an equally strong and even-fat voice, you will achieve the creation of a Yle solution that will last in this time. And I urge you to continue to be as strict as you are. If anyone tries on your property, hold on to the minister's voice, it's in the government house.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u114	Fru talman, Mr President! Jag ska inte upprepa det som tidigare minister Kiuru framförde, men jag vill konstatera det, att det gjordes ett enormt arbete under Kiurus ledning under den förra valperioden. Då kom man också överens om de gemensamma spelreglerna för Rundradion, och nu är det viktigt att man håller sig till de spelreglerna. Jag var jäteorollig koh i ett skde av den koh processen att regeringen nu hade glömt bort de koh spelreglerna, och det verkade som om regeringen skulle ha variants lite ut på villovägar. Nu har man komit tillbaka, och tag n en gång till Minister Berner för det. Jag tror att vi har alla förutsättningar att lyckas när vi ätter oss vid samma brod och funderar hur vi ska ha det framöver, också gemensamt när det gäller de övriga frågorna som behöver dskuteras.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u115	Mr President! I'm coming here just to be safe, because that wasn't nearly enough for two minutes. — I am sure it is right to say that it is good that we, as Minister of Communications, have a person who understands the importance of this public service mission by Yle and the need to take these matters forward in parliamentary terms. I am sure here that I can share the thanks of the previous Minister, Mr Kiuru, in this context and, like Mr Henriksson, also in my part, to Mrs Kiuru, who, during her own ministerial term, recalled this parliamentaryism and worked hard to push the Yle law forward with these principles. But that is why I have asked for one more speech — and I have already used this role of Yle, which is very important — because it has just become apparent here in the debate that there is absolutely no point in putting society against the fact that we have a good, functional YLE and then the conditions for commercial media to operate. We are living in a very difficult change in the media, and commercial media, as we have seen, have difficult times, big challenges, and that is why we must also be able to work together in such a way that this commercial media is able to maintain a high-quality, strong, diverse, pluralistic media and media environment in Finland as a whole. This is indeed, as has been said here in an earlier speech, also a very important issue for freedom of expression in all its aspects. To the extent that I return to the situation of last season, there was quite a lot of talk about the future of the press. As a result, I appointed Mr Harpf, the liquidator, to deal with the follow-up to this challenging situation. After all, as a result of this work, it was argued that the reallocation of business subsidies resulted in such innovation aid, which was intended to help this difficult digital transformation on a fixed-term basis, and a total of 30 million such things were carried out here. But, as I mentioned in the previous speech, there were still some very well-considered proposals and principles to be implemented in his work. Of course, one of the things we are talking about today is, among other things, this VAT treatment. It has been a good thing that this period too has been the debate on the need to try to correct this digital alvi. Of course, it presents small challenges from there through the European Union, but in any case it is an important principle to take forward. But Thomas Harpf also had such an interesting idea when he quite rightly said that, overall, we have the lowest media subsidies in the Nordic countries and the VAT of the press and the tax treatment of commercial media in general is very high at international level, that we should consider the possibility, for example as part of a larger VAT solution, of lowering the value added tax on media and press orders to the lowest EU level, i.e. 5%, and, of course, this would be combined with the VAT of this digital media. Such proposals are perhaps such proposals for the future, and I would also like them to be dealt with very seriously in this follow-up work and by the working group that has now been set up, and also by the minister and the ministry, because we all certainly recognise that the fact that we safeguard pluralist information is a major pillar of this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u116	Mr President! A number of good speeches have now been heard, which have highlighted the importance of this democracy and the importance of parliamentaryism, both of which are very important in this broadcasting activity. What is really important is that this activity can be monitored and made public. But then I would like to raise a few points here, that is, what is the significance of Yle on such a regional level. As a Laplander myself, I have experienced many times that if Yle's activities do not exist more widely, there would be no information about Lapland, especially in remote areas. Yle is the only one who is in reality able to provide information and information services from areas where there is no commercial way of managing things. Then the second point is these language issues. For example, the Sámi-language publicity, the Sámi-language radio activities would certainly not be possible without Yle's action, which is needed in order for us to continue to be able to bring up these minority languages, which will continue to exist in Finland more and more, in this general communication. Thank you and good luck with this action!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u117	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u118	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to adopt a new law on a European grouping of territorial cooperation, which has therefore taken into account the need for changes required by the amended legislation and aims to bring national legislation on the European grouping of territorial cooperation into line with the changes in Union law. While this group regulation is a direct binding right, national provisions are also needed to apply it effectively. The group is intended as a means of facilitating cross-border regional cooperation in the field of regional development and, in general, reducing the problems faced by regional and local authorities in the Member States due to divergent national legislation. The main changes are related to facilitating the establishment of the group and clarifying the regulation, and the possibilities for third countries to participate in the group are also expanding. This has been prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and, quite specifically, in this committee's report, it is the view of the Committee that, since there are currently no associations of European territorial cooperation in Finland and Finland is not a member of a group registered in another country, it is precisely on the basis of this new legislation that there could be greater opportunities for cooperation. An example is the three cross-border programmes under which the draft law can be applied, and the study suggests that these ENI CBC cooperation programmes in the direction of Russia could also benefit from this regulation. This report by the Administrative Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u119	Mr President! In the border region in particular, cross-border cooperation could be used to manage, for example, the organisation of services related to human safety and health. Especially in sparsely populated areas, border regions with wider shoulders in the responsibility for organising services could also mean international cooperation. I call for creative solutions based on regional needs. The bill will provide more opportunities for this. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, although we are talking here about cooperation at the EU's internal borders, we must not forget the cooperation of neighbouring regions with our great Eastern neighbour. Regardless of the international climate, we also need close regional cooperation in the direction of Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u120	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u121	Madam President! This government proposal is of a very technical nature and is much in line with the regulation already in practice. However, the discussion of the committee has shown that there are major challenges at present in implementing the exchange of information between EU authorities in different countries. This means that the legislation of the Member States needs to be further developed in order to provide information on traffic offences. For example, the fact is that, for example, the enforcement of traffic offences between Finland and Russia is better handled than between Finland and some EU countries. I hope that this issue will be taken forward in the future as well. But this bill has to be supported as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u122	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u123	Mr President! I wanted to come here and make this point because it is so important. It is indeed our job to respect the veterans of our wars, the people who have worked there to ensure that we can decide parliamentaryly in Finland today. This proposal is indeed good and worthy of support, even though it affects less than 100 people. After generations will look at these and previous decades how we have dealt with the people who, through the costly victims, saved the freedom of our country. After the wars, a considerable number of veterans and their families had to move to Sweden when there was not enough work in Finland. Their contribution to saving Finland in wars was as valuable as that of those who remained in Finland. Consideration of their position shall be justified. The number of veterans subject to this amendment is small, but it is important. As veterans age, the adverse effects of war injuries tend to increase. In the event of general impairment of physical activity, even a minor war injury may greatly exacerbate the disability. I would also like to remind you once again that the post-war estimates of the degree of disability did not always reflect the extent of genuine disability. At that time men were in a hurry to get out of the army books, and fear of getting out of work might have led men to minimize their injuries. The most important thing for everyone was to work and save and help this Finland forward. When we are living in tough economic times, this presentation is a fine choice of values for war veterans to be a matter of common honor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u124	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 2/2015 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 9 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u125	Madam President! From Sitra's Annual Report, we have already read that Sitra's task is to promote stable and balanced Finland's development, quantitative and qualitative economic growth and international competitiveness and cooperation. All of these are still urgently needed in our national economy, in every province of Finland. The future is not just Sitra's role as a future organisation, but our role, the whole of Parliament, and Finnish society. On the three themes of the Annual Report and Sitra, I will only take into account the Resource-wise and Carbon-neutral Society section. I come from the easternmost bioregion in Finland, so I would stress in particular that the home of the bioeconomy is in the provinces. A carbon-neutral society is resource-wise and requires a much-speaked bioeconomy. It is therefore very nice to say that the bioeconomy is one of the top projects in the Government Programme. This creates and brings a completely different development potential to the regions than in the past. The report has highlighted the circular economy as a growth sector. According to the Annual Activity Report, the circular economy is a well-designed economy in which the loss of materials and the generation of waste has been minimised. Biomass based bioeconomy is also a circular economy. The report has explicitly emphasised that the circular economy is the engine by which the adaptation of economic growth and well-being to the earth's carrying capacity is made. According to Sitra’s study, increasing the efficiency of the round of raw materials and resources would provide Finland with an annual value added of between EUR 1.5 billion and EUR 2.5 billion by 2030. This circular economy analysis is also unique in that it has not been calculated elsewhere. This is an opportunity that we must seize. There is plenty of forest in Finland. Forests are a natural solar panel and carbon sink for us, and it is also a carbon storer. Forests and biomasses are a natural resource that does not shrink but grows again because of sustainable Finnish forestry. At the moment, we still have forest drains worth an estimated 50 million cubic metres. We need management fellings to safeguard forest yields and at the same time secure wood raw material for both chemical and mechanical wood processing. This would also be supported by the timely payment of aid under the Kemera Act. Mr President! In my own country, North Karelia, we are already well ahead of the forest-based bioeconomy, and the current government programme, where the bioeconomy has been placed among the top projects, is helping my province. I hope that will be the case in the future. We need bioeconomy work and jobs in the regions, which do not run away to countries with lower production costs and which are growing export sectors. We need training places in regions where the bioeconomy is growing and developing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u126	Mr President! Above all, the future and its development is an extremely important issue in this House too. This Sitra paper talks about, among other things, the digitalisation of health care, and that is something that will certainly come, and that is something that will face a lot of challenges. Unfortunately, we have a little situation in this country where we protect ourselves from ourselves, but when we talk about health care and the digitalisation of health care, then we certainly need to ease these various restrictions a little. Things must also work in remote areas, and different databases must be able to communicate with each other in order to achieve the best possible and optimal outcome. In addition to that, the last time we talked about this Sitra paper, pharmacy fees were also ignored, which now apply to the University of Helsinki, and they have now been proposed to be cut off in the budget, among other things. This is a pretty serious matter, and I think this is one of those things where Parliament should think together about whether they can be taken out of it, because the 70 million that they are prepared for are already leaving the University of Helsinki, but if the pharmacy fees go away, it will also make it difficult for other pharmacies to operate, because the University of Helsinki has also distributed its prescription fees to other pharmacies — although they are small, but when added to the wet rock. This is one thing that would enable research on this side of the country to continue without interruption in the future and next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u127	Madam President! Sitra plays an important role as a research and future organisation, as stated in the report, as well as supporting legislation. Sitra is in many ways in the spirit of time and also on the wave of change and supporting the decisions of our MPs when we are making the future. In addition to experts, Sitra has experimental information, and I hope that: Sitra retains its agility as such a cross-cutting actor. A few words on the key projects related to the themes "Live man and supportive structures", "Resource-wise and carbon-neutral society" and "Opportunity for sustainable well-being and work". Thank you for these, and I particularly want to talk about resource-wise and carbon-neutral society and the related bio- and circular economy. Sitra’s report states — and I read at the risk of this repetition, because I think this is a huge prospect: “Although climate change and the depletion of natural resources are one of the biggest global problems, their rejection has created one of the fastest growing business areas in the world. The global cleantech market is estimated to be around EUR 1600 billion and, for example, the global circular economy market is close to EUR 1000 billion." This means huge job opportunities and value added for Finland. Although Finland is a small country, we have the opportunity to play a significant cleantech role through high-skilled education. These therefore create prospects for work and export activities, and that is certainly what we, as representatives of the people here, want to promote. Let me also say that anyone who calls a bioeconomy or a circular economy a barn tinkering must come to reality. Sitra’s bioeconomy is widely understood in several projects. The factors in the bioeconomy — pure raw materials, professionalism, high processing — are our strengths when we use them only with our high level of expertise. If we read the world's megatrends, bio, eco, organic and close to that high tech are very much the business of the future. At this point in the history of Finland, it is worth exchanging the talk about barn pars to change the world and how we stick to it. The bioeconomy is also part of the circular economy. Inorganic substances must be brought into circulation more effectively so that they retain their value in that chain. In particular, the report's chapter on the circular economy and its idea should, in my opinion, be linked as closely as possible to school curricula at different levels. And, as the report also wisely states, efforts to involve industry should be continued, but it must take place globally, that is, globally. When climate change is common, the means to combat it must also be common and cross-border, everyone involved. I agree with the report that the circular economy is a matter of will. Sitra has played an important role in making steps towards a carbon-neutral society. A more courageous transition from the fossil economy to a more carbon-neutral economy, where we can see, for example, that Finland as a whole is inhabited and vibrant, including in terms of security of supply. Sitra has also addressed a challenging topic: digitalisation, which is probably still synonymous with medication for heart failure in health care, but this is probably the process of information systems and electronic communication. There are challenges and it is a good thing that the report says it out loud. The beginning of wisdom is the recognition of facts. In e-services, expensive and incompatible information systems continue to be a stumbling block, as we painfully know as municipal decision-makers. This is also a major challenge for the social reform that this government is taking forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u128	Mr President! Sitra’s Annual Report, the Finnish Fund for Independence, is full of things about how Finland has been developed and, in particular, how it should be developed further. Perhaps one of the most important phrases in our Government Programme is: "Finland is a pioneer in the bio-economy, circular economy and cleantech." These are the issues that Sitra also highlights in this report. And now this is the challenge of how we can put the government programme into practice. In the future, it is likely — and I hope — that a significant part of Sitra’s money will be spent on bringing forward the core issues of our government programme. Especially here is this "Wood movement and new products from the forest". It has been on the agenda at Sitra and I hope that this top priority project of ours will now be mobilised even more. But then, as a problem point, I would like to point out that when we have a great deal of research done in Finland with various funding, including in relation to the bioeconomy, we have a huge number of patents, we have a huge number of studies that are in the files of universities and different places. So they're hidden and waiting for someone to start carrying them out. So more and more we should have methods and methods available to us, how we can get these studied, good things into practice. We need them so that we can: Finland would be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u129	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 5/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-14-ps-50.u130	The 9th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 15 October 2015.
