ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. In the debate, Mr Gustafsson, supported by Mrs Myller, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015 The debate, supported by Mr Gustafsson Sanna Marin, has been followed by a proposal for an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u5	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015 The debate, supported by Mr Gustafsson Li Andersson, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. In the debate, Jukka Gustafsson, supported by Li Andersson, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. In the debate, Silvia Modig Hanna Halmemenpää has proposed that the bill be rejected. With the support of Mrs Sanna Marin, Mrs Myller has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u8	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u9	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 14/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. In the general debate, Sari Essayah Päivi Räsänen has proposed that the discussion be based on a draft law contained in a government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u10	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 12/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u11	Mr President! I propose that the article should take the form of what we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u12	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u13	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u14	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 13/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u15	Mr President! I propose that, in accordance with objection 1, the article be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u16	Mr President! I support Mr Salonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u17	In the debate, Mrs Salonen, under the authority of Mrs Kiljunen, has proposed that the section be deleted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u18	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 8 December 2015. In the debate, Anna Halmenpää, supported by Johanna Ojala-Niemela, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 17 December 2015. With the support of Markus Salmon, Timo Korhonen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u19	Table entry to the plenary session on 9 December 2015 "no", table entry to the plenary session on 17 December 2015 "no".
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u20	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given by Mr Paavo Arhinmäki and others. the intermediate question VK 4/2015 vp on employment policy. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. The first speaker for the debate will be Mr Paavo Arhinmäki. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u21	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to thank you for this question. Our employment situation is extremely worrying, so it is good that Parliament spends a great deal of time on this issue. The aim of the intermediate issue is, of course, to question the policy of the government and, if necessary, to overthrow the government. However, I believe that, after hearing this reply, Parliament will say that the government continues to enjoy its trust. At the same time, we have to wonder a little bit about the opposition's enthusiasm for a mid-term issue and not, for example, a discussion initiative on the government's employment policy. It should be remembered that the government inherited the employment crisis from its predecessor. We have only been in power for over six months, so most of the Government Programme's activities are not yet in force and the budget is also made by the previous Government. Mr President! Anyone reading the latest employment statistics will certainly understand that unemployment is far too high. This cannot continue. We need to change the policy that has pushed us into this crisis. I am therefore surprised that, on the basis of the intermediate issue, the Green Left is proposing that we continue in general on the line of the previous government: not to make significant structural reforms, but to put more money in order to deal with unemployment. I would like to remind you that on the previous government's line employment weakened by 41,000 persons. The government now sees it differently: changes must be made in the management of unemployment and in the structures of the labour market. The central focus of the Government Programme is to raise the employment rate in our country to 72%. Without a high employment rate, the present welfare society cannot be maintained. On the other hand, improving employment requires economic growth, which cannot be achieved sustainably without a vibrant and competitive business sector. This is why the Government Programme not only includes a number of employment policy reforms, but also a number of industrial policy measures aimed at improving the conditions for economic growth. When you read the mid-term question and the questions it raises, the question arises as to whether the Green Left has at all been familiar with the Government Programme, for there is an answer to all the questions you have actually asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u30	Mr President! In 1975 President Kekkonen spoke of a national emergency when there were 63,000 unemployed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u35	Mr President! It must be a matter for us Finns to save the welfare society. This requires better employment. Now there is a confrontation between politics, the labour market and society in general. You have to ask seriously whether we Finns can still agree? There will be no more jobs in this country. By working together, we Finns can change the direction of Finland. We have also survived in the past. In these world conditions, we must be able to agree and decide. That's what people expect. That is what Finland will earn soon to be 100 years old. Mr President! The intermediate issue suggests that unemployment and other problems in Finland are more or less cyclical and that a revitalising policy would be the solution. There's a big difference between the government and the opposition. Finland has a competitiveness problem and a prolonged, severe deficit in the economy. The latest figures describing our country's exports were the lowest in four years. A prerequisite for better employment is that we put our country's competitiveness in order. Finland must be reformed. When we are in the euro and in an ever-changing global economy, we must make ourselves more competitive. It doesn't happen overnight. That is why we must now come up with solutions. The failure of the social contract for the fourth time was detrimental to Finland. There is a need for serious self-examination by labour market organisations. Now the preparation of the Government's competitiveness package is progressing, but there is still time for agreement. In international competition, employers and employees are on the same side of the table. A social contract would be the best and most equitable solution for all Finns. We also need wage moderation and reforms in the workplace. In particular, the possibility of local reconciliation in the workplace must be increased with determination. With confidence, solutions can be agreed to benefit both employers and employees. We must constantly improve the operating conditions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The fastest way to achieve results is by lowering the threshold for employment and dismantling the red tape that makes it difficult to try. Future jobs are precisely in small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr President! The central parliamentary group considers that the natural and bioeconomy combined with excellence is one of the most promising areas for creating more sustainable jobs throughout the country. This is demonstrated by investments in the forest industry in Äänekoski and Varkaus. These investments alone employ thousands of Finns. We believe that the reforms of the Government Programme on Natural Resources and Bioeconomy, Employment and Education must be carried out in the most forward-looking way possible. The natural resource and bioeconomy must be seen as a future employment, entrepreneurship and industrial policy. This is a new industry in Finland, which also requires the repair of roads, railways and other routes throughout the country. This change requires political and social commitment that goes beyond the parliamentary term. Mr President! There are nearly 0.5 million people in Finland without work. The most worrying aspect is the worsening of unemployment and long-term unemployment among young people. Instead of blaming each other, we should also put our resources into seeking solutions in this debate, so that as many of them as possible can find employment. Work must always be worthwhile. Reforms are needed to increase incentives for work and people to act on their own. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party is in particular pressing for a basic safety test. We need to clear the supporting jungle. By means of experiments, the most difficult services and competences for those with employment potential could be transferred widely from employment and economic development offices to municipalities. This is also what the municipalities have wanted. More cooperation with companies and organisations is needed locally. In addition, the Kela fines paid by municipalities could be granted to municipalities for more liberal employment management. Mr President! The situation in Finland is exceptionally serious. However, our country's rise or downfall is still in our own hands. The Parliament Group in the Centre Party believes that we must:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u36	Mr President! The main objective of the Government and the primary task is to seek out and promote the interests of Finland and Finns in their decisions. This is also what the government is calling for from the social partners. We must achieve growth, employment and jobs in Finland. Local reconciliation is the best way to meet future challenges for society. Now we can't afford to wait. The competitiveness leap must be brought about without delay. Our country's economy has been weak for a long time. The trade balance has been negative since 2011. During the previous government term, cost competitiveness could not be improved in such a way that exports could be driven and foreign trade jobs secured. The necessary corrections were not made in the public sector either, but consumption continued in the pattern of the booming season. It is clear to the True Finns that the eating debt cannot continue to be taken. Otherwise, our children will be left with nothing but poverty. Unlike other Nordic countries, Finland is a member of the euro area and our hands are tied to too strong a currency. This is reflected directly in our employment rate, which is clearly lower than in other Nordic countries. When the Finns went to the government, they committed themselves to fighting for every Finnish job until the last breath. As a result of this objective, the government has an ambitious target of raising the employment rate to 72% and increasing the number of employed by 110,000 people. Finland's work must be profitable, and the companies operating in Finland must be given an economically supportive atmosphere so that they can grow, invest and create new jobs. Unfortunately, not all labour market organisations wanted to blow up the common coal, even though it is obvious that constructive cooperation would ultimately benefit everyone. If labour market organisations do not act, cost-competitiveness needs to be enhanced by government action. Growth in employment reduces the pressure on cutting and increases well-being. The aim is to make Finland a competitive country by 2025, where entrepreneurship, ownership and investment are more profitable. This will be done, inter alia, by improving the functioning of the market by removing barriers to competition and streamlining the authorisation processes for investment. In addition, the rapid reception of work is encouraged by the reform of unemployment benefit, which aims at reducing periods of unemployment and reducing structural unemployment. As a large part of the competitiveness of business and the prerequisites for business, it is necessary to create a more supportive approach to local reconciliation in the workplace so that they can better respond to the challenges of today's society. This is the biggest reform of the labour market for decades. True Finns want Finns to have the opportunity to continue working on the squirrel wheel of society. The development of productivity and the economy is an important goal of the government, supported by the culture of local reconciliation. Nor does the government in any way blame the unemployed, but through structural reforms it seeks to tackle unemployment and periods of unemployment. This is how the government responds to the current problem of matching in the labour market. Contrary to what the opposition claims in its interplay, the Sipilä Government's programme does not fragment working life into pieces or projects. It is the government's actions that make access to employment and access to employment more flexible. An example of this is that housing construction will be increased to promote labour mobility and better respond to the demands of industrial competitiveness. Moreover, the sitting government does not add to the citizens' discipline of bureaucracy. Subjective day care rights remain with those most in need. In education policy, the Government invests in new learning environments and develops a secondary vocational education system by removing barriers to education, among other things. Similarly, cooperation between universities and business through various regional centres of expertise, both nationally and internationally, will be strengthened. Mr President! Thus, Finland will continue to be a valued country in the field of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u37	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be polite in this connection to point out that the Council of Presidents does not recommend, but says that the group speeches must not take more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u38	Mr President! The coalition takes unemployment seriously. Finland's unemployment has risen trendily, following the economic cycle, from one decade to the next, and labour administration expenditure has increased. It has long been thought in this Chamber that unemployment is being managed through public employment expenditure. In the course of the autumn they have been discussed by the committees. The conclusion is that these measures rarely contribute to permanent employment. The government does not measure its success by the amount of employment expenditure, but by how employment can be permanently increased. This appropriation is intended to complement the well-functioning labour market and ensure the ability of the unemployed to work. They don't replace working reforms. In Finland, there has been an unauthorized long delay in considering why unemployment is due. This is, of course, influenced by the economic cycle, but also by the economic structures and, in this context, by the choices made by businesses and individuals in the labour market. The Sipilä government has started to reduce unemployment permanently, with structural reforms. At the same time, there is a critical review of the need to reallocate employment appropriations. The government's employment reforms can be classified into three categories: more profitable employment, more attractive employment and more sensible employment administration. Of course, the fluctuations in unemployment are cyclical, but the average level of unemployment depends on the way in which the labour market operates, which is influenced by labour law, by the activities of trade unions and employers' organisations, and by taxation and social security. The market economy works in such a way that the higher the wage pressure is, the lower the unemployment rate. The higher the wage claims of trade unions and employees at each level of unemployment, the higher the structural or average unemployment rate. Unemployment will stagnate at a high level if wage increases get tough in the already high unemployment situation. It is therefore vital to reduce Finland's excessively high cost level, and it is equally vital to ensure that employment can grow for many years before growth is stifled by the increasing cost which will block the competitiveness correction movement. Our negotiating system is being praised, but it is incredible that even this year we are pushing up labour costs with compulsory general increases, even though unemployment is falling by 10%. Mr President! The government will reduce unemployment through both supply and demand-enhancing reforms. Shortening earnings security will have an impact on the speed with which unemployed people reapply to work. At the same time, in order to balance the reform, the thresholds for employment are reduced, thus increasing the number of job opportunities. Consideration will be given to extending the probation period, facilitating voluntary fixed-term contracts and the start-up grant of earnings-related security. In the opinion of the Assembly, the most important reform is a vigorous reform of labour law in support of local reconciliation, which the government has just decided to launch. From now on, both small companies and large companies will be able to agree on working conditions more freely so that jobs are preserved and increased. Mr President! The answer to the intermediate question is straightforward: the government has noted the seriousness of the employment situation in Finland and has launched ambitious reforms in Finland to reverse the gloomy and visionless development in a permanent way. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party supports the work of Minister Lindström and other ministers and looks forward to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u39	Mr President! There are always two sides to strengthening employment. We need to create the conditions under which new jobs are created, but at the same time we need to take care of the unemployed so that they retain their ability to work and their skills. It is a matter of respect for work and employees. The government cannot tell jobs to be created, but it can create favourable conditions in which employment is strengthened. The role of the government is not easy. The government has the right employment objectives, but the government itself is putting them at risk through its own efforts. The government is freezing, or in fact freezing, the domestic market that sustains employment here and now with massive cuts in purchasing power, leaving to the future and hopes employment measures that strengthen exports. The rapid employment impact of the Social Democrats option is about 35,000 person-years. Ladies and gentlemen! Finland suffers from three main problems: a fall in investment, an increase in unemployment and, above all, a prolonged period of unemployment, and a decline in domestic demand and demand in the main export countries. The Social Democrats are therefore putting forward five key measures to strengthen employment. First of all, a long-term moderate income solution must be created. It is the most important measure in support of stability and predictability in order to strengthen employment. Regrettably, the government's policy of quick profits has jeopardised the stability of the negotiations with the forced laws that it has prepared. A wise government would withdraw the preparation of forced laws and thus contribute to a negotiated solution. Second of all: Growth in support of employment must be stimulated by increasing investment in businesses and the public sector. Public investment must be boosted by means of seed money to develop or speed up, inter alia, moulding and innovative public projects. In addition, there is a need to link and increase investment in housing and transport. Third: Cost competitiveness can be strengthened by a moderate wage settlement and the introduction of Emu buffers, reducing earnings-related pension contributions by 0.8% by a split between employers and employees. The employer’s reduction rate would reduce labour costs by hundreds of millions, while the employee’s contribution reduction would support domestic consumption and hence employment. Fourthly, the Social Democrats are proposing an entrepreneurial package which would increase the means of promoting exports and financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. The model supports the remuneration of the first employee, contributes to the promotion of tourism, builds a network of export locomotives, brings together projects, renews corporate financing, including through a junior loan, improves the corporate loan market and promotes crowdfunding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u46	Mr President, ärade talman! The Government’s key project is to dismantle incentive traps that prevent work from taking place and to reduce structural unemployment. The objective is good and common, but the government's means are partly incomprehensible. The government will cut unemployment benefit by EUR 50 million next year. This is despite the fact that unemployment is getting worse and worse. This is despite the arrival of tens of thousands of asylum seekers. This is despite the fact that even now it takes several months to get time to the TE Office. It is natural to work longer as the life is prolonged, but the fireman does not carry his 20 kg equipment to the fire site or the three-shift nurse lifts the old man any day longer if the condition and condition do not give up, whatever the official retirement age. Insufficient well-being at work causes a fall of more than EUR 40 billion per year in Finland. We should reduce this decrease: improve working conditions and time, improve leadership and employee empowerment, and tackle early problems through occupational health care. But where are the government’s proposals regarding them? It is inconceivable that the government in two years almost eliminates the funding of the Youth Guarantee. The cuts hit the hardest in the search for youth work, which has brought more than 20,000 young people at risk of exclusion to the path of education and work each year. Everyone who is excluded will pay a million euros to society, which means that the government's savings will result in a big bill. The employment of the unemployed is hampered by government cuts in education and training, which take up study places, and by the abolition of adult education, which makes it difficult to re-train and change the sector. In particular, the stubborn promotion of forced laws that have been put in place and disciplined women's sectors demonstrates the total inability to understand working life. If they are forced through, trust in society and the peace of work will be lost for years. We Greens cannot be in favour of these cuts and compulsory laws and we therefore support this intermediate issue. Mr President! Many work at the same time, act as an entrepreneur, study and care for their loved ones. Our current strict breakdown will drop people from social security too easily at the end of the project or in the event of a change in the life situation. Too often, the choice of entrepreneurship means rejecting summer and sick leave, pension, unemployment and other social security. We Greens want to reform our working lives. It is now necessary to provide for a smooth way to be a worker and an entrepreneur at the same time or in varying degrees. This can be achieved by introducing, for example, a so-called combined insurance policy, in which the working conditions of unemployment benefit are accumulated at the same time, both in terms of work and in terms of entrepreneurship. There will be no job without entrepreneurship, and that is why start-ups and small businesses in particular need to be helped and social protection developed to reach them. I understand that this is also the will of the government, but the opposite is true. Today, for example, actors and journalists performing short gigs are forced to become entrepreneurs, which would outsource them from social security. This can't be the point. There are 170,000 self-employed people in Finland, and a large number of them are self-employed women. It's great that the government, despite tough times, is introducing a $2,500 baby money to the mother's employer. It is a good start and a recognition that the mother’s employer has an average decrease of more than EUR 15000 per child in addition to statutory compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u47	Mr President! In an open market economy, state intervention in employment is limited. The number of jobs is affected by global economic cycles, demographic structure, the ability of the export sector to reform and many other factors that give rise to poor democratic decision-making. There is still one and another to be done, and it is the duty of us politicians to take action, especially in the event of mass unemployment. We must prevent further unemployment by means of employment and job-sharing. Examples of successful models for this include job alternation leave and a six-hour working day. We must minimise the social disadvantages of unemployment through adequate social protection and ensure people's access to training. The Left Alliance has proposed a fixed-term reduction in value added tax to trigger domestic demand. In addition, public projects must be launched to maintain domestic demand and maintain infrastructure for the next boom. The machines must be greased so that they can be started again, the tracks must be fixed so that the goods can reach the world. There is still a need to identify and support sectors and production methods in which the market is only just beginning to take shape. We need to create social security structures that are more supportive than suppressing people's activity. Mr President! The actions listed above are certainly also known to the government. Nevertheless, the government seems to be working hard in the opposite direction. Employment appropriations have been drawn into the bones and training opportunities for citizens are constantly being undermined. The aim is to concentrate work by extending working time and by making it more difficult to share it. Domestic demand is driven down and unemployment is driven up by cuts in public services and transfers. At the same time, rail, real estate and telecommunications technology are allowed to deteriorate. Bureaucracy and rigidities will be added there and here. The challenges posed by digitalisation and the sharing economy to legislation are obviously not even being tackled, although it is clear that our exports of wood and paper alone will not recover from this. Why is the government acting in such an incomprehensible way, as it were, against its own best interests and certainly against the best interests of the national economy? As far as I can see, the only explanation is that the goal is not low unemployment and a chubby nation, but something else. Consciously or incomprehensiblely, led by grey eminences in the shadows, the government has launched a huge project to destabilise working life. Its purpose is to overwhelm society, under the pretext of the crisis, with structures that guarantee the absolute domination and wealth of the employer to those who already have. Only against this objective will there be some consistency in the government's actions. If the goal is a low-wage low-wage labour force, social security cuts and the attack on trade union bargaining rights make great sense. In addition to this objective, prolonged unemployment is not a threat; it is an opportunity: continuous oversupply of labour is the best guarantee of wage moderation that has been investigated. The strategic orientation of the Government Programme is also reflected in this framework, the objective of a general reduction in the level of education. While Finland has so far competed with broad-based knowledge, the government is now heading towards a divided labour market where the highly educated and paid elite dominates the low-paid and educated majority. Mr President! In the opening session of the new Parliament, Mr Vanhanen spoke on behalf of his group. In it he named the spirit of the 1879 Freedom of Business Act as the leading star of the government’s future journey. Those principles of freedom of industry and contract are still the cornerstones of Finnish civil law. That is why I do not believe that Mr Vanhanen has chosen to change his own freedom of business. In the light of these Government's next few months, I think he now meant rather a broader renegotiation of the rules of Finnish society on the conditions of business. The latter part of the 19th century did bring the freedom of money, but it did not bring the freedom of man. For the protection of the business world was a set of standards imposed on ordinary people from the vagabonds into a strict criminal code. It was the golden time of poor safety at work, ten-hour working days and local reconciliation. The tax rate was also low and was paid only on incomes that: Dear government! It's worth it. I support Mr Arhinmäki's motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u48	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Förtroende är en bracklig sak och framtidstro byggs inte på tomma löften. En företagare som oroar sig för morgondage anstaller inte. Och ett företag som räds ett anstalllningsbeslut väljer att inte expandera. Små och medelstora företag är i nyckelposition för att sysselsättningsläget ska förbättras. Det är ett högst konkret beslut en företagare tar då Hon eller Han bestammer sig för att anstalla eller inte. Avgörande är om man ser en nyanstallning som en risk eller som en vöjlighet. Vi brode kanske medge att en anstalllning i dag ofta upplevs som ett osmidigt kontrakt. Vad kan vi göra i vårt samhälle för att göra det ox kontraktet mer attraktivt? Vi ska inte glömma att Finland fortfarande i många internationalella jämförelser placer sig hyfsat när det gäller kokurrenskraft. Men just nu drunks det som om Bristen på förtroende ämmar hela samhället.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u49	Mr President! The creation of jobs by expanding the public sector and increasing government debt will not take our country further. Nor is it made by a power struggle that springs from the history of the social partners. The concern about employment expressed in the intermediate issue is correct, but unfortunately the solutions have become obsolete. Mr President! It is up to the government to create a framework for economic growth and, consequently, to increase the employment rate. Now the opposite is true: the number of unemployed job seekers has increased by 17,700 per year, with 8.7 per cent of Finns without work at the end of October, just under 338,000. We must now create fertile ground for business creation, growth and internationalisation. It comes when society encourages each individual, above all, to his or her own activity, but at a time of need, weakness or failure, it also provides a safety net. This European-wide, Christian-democratic political ideology is also called the social market economy. The incentives for full-time work have weakened in recent years. Unfortunately, often when you move from half-time to full-time work, less money is left in your hand. Unprofitable work is not the fault of the individual but of the system. The responsibility lies with the political decision-makers. The intermediate issue mentions the basic income that the government has promised to experiment on. The basic income model of the citizen's pay model would increase the threshold for receiving low-paid work even further. It doesn't bring a solution. Instead, KD's incentive basic security reduces the threshold for employment by coordinating existing subsidies such as unemployment benefit, income support, housing allowance and day care fees with pay and taxation in the national up-to-date income register. The amount of the subsidy is automatically determined according to the household situation and the system calculates the amount of benefits. The aid is still discretionary, not basic income, and as wages increase, the aid decreases linearly without thresholds. Finding out the basic security of the incentive in Finland is now up-to-date as Kela and the Tax Administration's systems are being reformed and automated. We hope that the model will be clarified in connection with the government's basic income experiment. Mr President! We remind the government of the difficult employment situation of women over the age of 55. They are of the best working age, but they are often ignored in the search for work. As unemployment increases, the government has actually reduced activation measures. They now reach 9,000 fewer people than a year ago. The funding of youth workshops and apprenticeships has also been cut. In the alternative budget, we have proposed and called for the continuation of the Youth Guarantee and the withdrawal of cuts in apprenticeships, outreach youth work and youth workshops. As an acute relief to employment problems, we suggest that the option of reducing the duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit would be to allow the last 100 days to be spent on pay subsidies or start-up grants. This would involve active use of unemployment benefit. This autumn we have also proposed a 5% reduction in the tax burden in order to encourage entrepreneurship. We would also strengthen the conditions for growth by investing in education and research, development and innovation. Finally, our parliamentary group wants to send a message to the social partners that now is the time for agreement at the latest. However, a positive signal is that efforts have been made to promote local reconciliation in the trio. We are a small country with people who are cooperative and cooperative. The time for fighting and vatulking is over. The most important journey a person or a social partner can make is to meet him halfway. Take that step. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament does not agree with the intermediate issue, but calls on the government and the social partners to take swift, effective and fair decisions to strengthen employment and economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u50	I would now like to give Mr Lindström the floor on the floor, five minutes, and then we will proceed to the stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u51	Mr President! I listened with a sensitive ear and wrote down what was being said here. The first signatory to the mid-term question, Mr Arhinmäki, started this by saying, broadly speaking, that 'the government does not have a credible programme'. Yes, the government has a credible program. We believe in it ourselves, otherwise we would not stand here to defend it. Your articulation on this matter was quite interesting. You accused the government of trying to scrap the rules agreed together, and you asked whether it was sensible to crush the Finnish contract society. In a situation where the government has patiently sat down with the social partners on several occasions at the same table and offered the door on its back — let us do this together — what is this but an agreement? You, Mr Arhinmäki, listed the economic policy instruments which are good in this situation, because they already read in the Government Programme, exactly the same. You raised the issue of well-being at work, which is an extremely important issue. That's why The "Working Life 2020" project is progressing and is now being taken to the workplace level during this four-year period. We do not overlook investing in well-being at work at all, that is extremely important. There will be no job creation by blaming the unemployed, you said. That is what Mr Kontula said in his group speech. That's right. There's no one to blame. The aim here is to reform Finnish working life by agreeing in a constructive way, but when the money is down, these things must be done in another way. In his group speech, Mr Hoskone pointed out that there was no need for confrontation. It's just like this. We're going to work together, and we're going to try to go. A social pact would be the best solution for all of us, and local reconciliation will hopefully be the way forward for us in the future. Mr Meri in his group speech stressed this in his excellent speech that we do not have time to wait, and also that we have too strong a currency, which means that we must do these things ourselves. We all benefit from constructive cooperation, said Mr Meri, and that is exactly what this is all about. Mr Vartiainen, the appropriations are specifically supplementary. This cannot go on indefinitely if unemployment is treated simply by hitting more money there. We have to make some changes. We don't have the money. This year we are likely to go beyond EUR 6 billion in the management of unemployment. It's a huge amount. Yes, it must be used in a smarter way than this, and it is not to blame the unemployed. That is a sensible labour market policy. Mr Filatov, you said that you cannot tell jobs to be created. That's not what the government's doing. That's the way it is. We get it. We are creating a framework, and it is then, of course, in the hands of entrepreneurs themselves, whether they invest, whether they employ people. You can't force anyone to do that. The group speech of the SDP listed a number of different options, some of which are already in the Government Programme. Of course, this introduction of the EMU buffer is such an interesting thing that it is in the hands of the social partners, and are you prepared to open up this pension agreement in this regard? This is an interesting question. You talked about a strategy to support new exports, and the government has also talked about a broad, moderate income solution, and so are we. Growth in public investment — well, we have this billion EUR and 600 million for these infrastructure projects. There are a lot of things like what the government is already doing. There were also constructive proposals here: developing the social security of an entrepreneur worker, Mr Järvinen in his group speech. That's an interesting performance. But to this end, really: The idea of this representative, Mr Kontula, that the government has launched a process of debilitating working life was quite shocking to hear. We are trying to save what can be saved, that more and more Finnish jobs are available. There is no other ideology behind this. As Prime Minister Sipilä has said today, so it is. That is our ideology: to save Finnish jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u52	I would now like to ask those Members who would like to have an answer, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u53	Mr President! Minister Lindström said that the government has sought to promote a contractual society. You have made a Sicilian offer saying that you will cut your own wages and weep or we will cut your holiday money, sickness pay, the duration of your vacations. This is not an agreement, it is a dictation, and no wonder the Confederation of Finnish Industries EK has not really wanted to find a solution. You offer EK everything they want on a silver platter — why negotiate? Therefore, the EK also made the situation worse by announcing that centralised solutions will be abandoned. Mr President! You, Minister Lindström, said that you are creating new jobs with these handicaps. Last today, the President of the Economic Policy Review Council, Professor Uusitalo of the University of Jyväskylä said,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u54	Mr President! When you look at these employment figures and our competitive situation, the situation in Finland is so bad that it just terrifies you to look at them. I refer to yesterday's data, which are the last export statistics of this country, and at the same time we here are arguing about what should be done. The Government has a clear line, and competitiveness needs to be improved. There is no trick to improve its situation. We are losing shops on the world market all the time to our competitors. Nothing will help but to put this country's competitiveness in order, with persistent, long-term work, to settle matters. The government has been offering the opposition, and also through the social partners, the message that we should agree on these matters and work together. This country is not going to rise because we are here to blame each other and see if there is something wrong with that other one. It is now time for it to be settled, just as Mr Lindström said in his own speech. There is clearly a situation here that if we do not start doing something here, the employment situation will continue to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u55	Mr President! To Arhinmäki, I'd say he probably didn't listen to the end and he's been getting to know everything anyway. This package also has an obligation to change security for the EK, there is an extension of occupational health care after the termination of the employment relationship and a payment of EUR 2500 to the employer. That if we talk about things, then we really talk if we are here to improve Finland. I'm a little funny about this demarcation that you're creating 35,000 man-years. I looked here at what you promised: 100,000 new jobs during the last term of government. Well, you had the portfolio of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour. You received 100,000 new unemployed, and now we should count on you to give us the keys to the solution. Yes, it makes me laugh — 102900, an accurate figure from the statistics of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u56	Mr President! Very strange and fierce speeches have been made here that the government would want to undermine people's living conditions and increase female unemployment. You know yourself, it's absurd to say that. I think, however, that what is squeezed here is that you have a different vision and theory of reality when it is so difficult for the left to understand that employment must be profitable for both sides, that is, for the employer. There is so little investment and so little employment here because it is not profitable. That is why we are trying to improve the profitability of business. And when you look at the statistics, here the profits are too small and the workforce is too expensive in relation to what it should be. Compared with these other countries, even if Sweden, where competitiveness is better, or around the middle of the 21st century to Finland: was this then some miserable, poor-assed hell?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u57	Well, at this point, however, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u58	Mr President! There is probably a big difference here that the government is seeking to improve competitiveness, precisely through price competitiveness, when it is seen in the opposition that we need to take care of our skills and not make these major cuts in education. We need to improve productivity. We need to find those innovations and new insights. No matter how low our price falls, it won't help if those products don't sell. That is what this is all about. And there's more to it than price. But with regard to this great cost of unemployment, which the Minister mentioned, which I am sure we are both concerned about, it is then important to use these activation measures. If we neglect to take care of the ability of the unemployed to work and allow unemployment to be prolonged, as is happening now and going rather hard during your reign, this will lead to an increase in structural unemployment and to a more difficult process of dismantling it later. It is therefore necessary for these passive funds to be actively used, not only by using the current model, but also by using the Ringe model, which is also flexible towards the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u59	Mr President! We have 450,000 unemployed people and nearly 150,000 passive unemployed, and for these people it is a hard place. I would like this debate to be particularly humble in the future in this Chamber. The Government repeatedly says that Finland loses in productivity comparisons and labour costs to other countries. However, according to the OECD, for example, in a productivity comparison, Finland will even beat Germany and Sweden, not to mention the euro area average. Similarly, according to Eurostat's latest data, labour costs are below the European average, for example in industry even lower than in Sweden and Germany. Therefore, in this Chamber and in the presence and monitoring of this public, it would be good to open up these figures and to open up the government's decisions based on which figures that productivity needs to be further improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u60	Värderade Talman! The government's employment measures are brilliant with their absence. An effective rotational leave system is being scrapped. Furthermore, there is no information on measures taken to employ young people. It is known, however, that the resources of young people, for example, are being hard-hitted. We ourselves propose that the current bureaucratic support systems for youth work should be dismantled and invested in a modeled streamlined form of youth work. However, we would like to know what the government is planning. What are the ways in which the government intends to improve the situation of young people in the labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u61	Mr President! It has been contradictory to hear that the opposition parties who tabled the interim issue are very concerned about the employment situation and the welfare of women-dominated sectors, while at the same time taking away the opportunities for employment themselves, opportunities for work and career advancement in health care, for example by rambling last week's vote on the legislative reform proposed by the citizens' initiative. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health highlighted the importance of respect for staff's convictions and stressed the use of working arrangements to organise patient care and at the same time to respect the convictions of staff, such as midwives. I would like to ask, Minister of Labour Lindström: will the government take action, instruct and monitor that collegial working arrangements also take place in different health care units in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u62	Mr President! In the context of the single currency and low growth, the employment target of 72% calls for structural reforms, a social pact with wage moderation and active use of the money spent on unemployment. We have to choose between wage increases or the pursuit of this employment objective, and I therefore believe that this Chamber and this debate should continue to be the subject of a serious appeal from everyone to make the structural reforms and to agree together on how this employment objective will be managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u63	Mr President! Minister Lindström wanted constructive presentations here, a constructive debate, and Mr Meri, who was the spokesman for the Group of the Finns Party, announced here that he was laughing at these serious SDP performances. We pretended to use the Emu buffers, give up this salary bill. In fact, we put it seriously, and we actually have, well, at least one advocate for this performance: 'The man and woman in duunari have earned their wages. Instead of a wage bill, the competitiveness of the export sector must be ensured, for example, by dismantling the Emu buffers." Do you know who said that? He was group leader Lindström before the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u64	Mr President! In its reply, the government suspects that the authors of the interim question did not read the Government Programme. Yes, the government programme has been carefully studied, but we have also seen what the government’s hands are doing behind those fine words. When the government talks about the reform of the employment administration, it means, in practice, taking the money from the employment administration. When the government talks about dismantling incentive traps, it means increasing bureaucracy and rigidities. When the government talks about improving cost competitiveness, it means unilateral weakening of working conditions. To Minister Lindström, the cloaking of ideological solutions to the necessity is an ancient practice of the authorities, but it is not good and sustainable decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u65	Mr President! The opposition is mauling and blaming the government, and in particular the excellent Minister of Labour, Lindström, for allegedly ill-managed employment policy. Let us remember a little about what the present opposition parties did in the last term when they were in the government. The SDP was constantly concerned only with increasing work-related immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u66	But now I am going to give the floor to Mr Satonen at this stage. Let's just stick to the schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u67	Mr President! Yesterday, the Nanso Group factory in Nokia for 84 years announced that it would stop, and for 86 people, it meant that the Christmas present was that there was no work available anymore. At the same time, Nanso announced that 104 people working in Tornio will be decided next February. This is not an international company with huge profits, but a domestic family company that is heavily loss-making and to whom the decision to stop Nokia's trico production was very difficult, because we have wanted to believe in the added value of domestic work," says the company. Work is moving to Estonia. Work continues but leaves Finland. How much more such announcements we have to wait for before we take seriously
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u68	Mr President! Now that you are listening to these speeches, it remains to be thought by the crowd that the representatives of the government parties want to be totallylittle the alternatives given by the opposition. Here, for example, Mr Oinonen referred to last season's policy, laughing at the policy of the Social Democrats, but at that time we created, among other things, a youth guarantee to help many young people get away with the work. Ice in the hat and patience for the government parties now. It is worth listening with a sensitive ear to what the opposition has to say. We are offering a long-term alternative and exactly what Mr Filatov tried to tell us in his speech: investing in education, early childhood education, research and product development. By doing so, Finland will once again rise to the path of growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u69	Mr President! That's right, you drove through this youth guarantee, but what? It didn't work!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u70	Mr President! We should not be provoked if we are provoked, but we must say that Mr Oinonen is now confused with the quotes, and I would like him to find the right notes and talk about the right party with the right things. The Youth Guarantee for Social Democrats is certainly not capable of creating jobs as such, but what it has done has kept young people's periods of unemployment short. For young people under the age of 25, unemployment periods are 17 weeks. By the way, it is a record short period of youth unemployment in the European Union. And if we look at, for example, the older unemployed, who are another difficult group, there the average unemployment rate for older people is, in fact, long-term unemployment, far beyond that, which indicates that there are no such support measures that could cut off periods of unemployment, support employment and reduce the incidence of structural unemployment. It is therefore essential that we also consider how to prevent exclusion, because if we do not do so, there will be a major social sustainability gap in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u71	Mr President! Of course, Mr Oinonen's speeches are not based on anything, but it is good to correct the audience that there is not a very wrong impression. Of course, the Youth Guarantee did not succeed as well as the greatest wishes, but as a result we have the lowest long-term unemployment among young people throughout the EU. In other words, it prevents young people from being excluded from working life, which is very valuable. It is therefore extraordinary that the government is cutting funding for the Youth Guarantee. The second thing we did last season was detective youth work. It reached more than 20,000 displaced youths, of whom more than 15,000 needed longer guidance. In other words, the Youth Guarantee has produced a lot of results, results that prevent young people from being excluded from society and working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u72	I will give the answers to the representatives of Aalto, Ala-Nissilä and Terho, and then Minister Stubb. He's got two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u73	Mr President! I ask the Minister for Labour: do you think that the cuts in employment appropriations, the cuts in education and the economic policy that undermines overall demand will be met by how successful it will be for a skilled workforce to become more competitive, and will these measures ensure the maintenance of working capacity, the availability and supply of labour and continuous and flexible learning?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u74	Mr President! Sitra published today that there could be 360,000 job opportunities in companies in Finland. So we have opportunities to find new jobs, but we need to see that the structures of the Finnish economy are now hindering employment. So we have a structural problem. We must not live in a bubble, even a lie, that our structures are in order. On the contrary, we must now undertake these structural reforms, such as local reconciliation and the promotion of entrepreneurship and employment. It is a poor performance on the part of the social partners if we are not able to agree in this situation either. Just as Mr Kalli said, it is now time to agree on Finnish jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Let's leave the sign for a moment and get back to the original. Today we have heard again at the mouth of the Minister for Labour how this government really understands the importance of work and therefore employment as the backbone of Finland's well-being and works accordingly. The government's employment policy is courageous, decisive and reformist. This is the first government, the first one that really understands what these challenges and demands are today in order to achieve a high level of employment. They are competitiveness, red tape dismantling, local agreement and measures in this direction that we have plenty of. It is time to move away from that old thinking and to respond to the challenges we have now. Structural problems will not be improved by means of subsidies. There must be reforms that will lead us to the future that we are trying to achieve. It is no longer useful to pour money into old systems, but to create something new. ♪ And in times of crisis ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u76	Secretary Stubb, two minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u77	Mr President! In fact, we have three key objectives in the Government Programme, one relating to employment, the other about balancing public finances and the third about reforming social and health services. We assume in the employment objective that a high employment rate is actually the only way we can finance our welfare state. In practice, this means that, in the long run, we need to improve the demand for and supply of work. When I dig up that government program of ours, I will find six key structural reforms that will enable us to move forward. The first is, of course, a much disputed and discussed competitiveness package, but it is a short-term measure. Another much more fundamental is the local agreement, which should reach agreement with the social partners on 15 March. by the end of this period. The third key element, in my opinion, relates to the taxation of work, because the more worthwhile it is to work, the more the work in the end game will be. Fourthly, in our government programme, we are trying to remove the incentive traps, which, however, are in the long run the obstacle on the basis of which the person decides whether to go to work or not. In addition, we have two additional measures, one of which is the employment administration's renovation, and one of which is earnings-related unemployment security and its reform. Does this mean that these measures will only generate employment for growth? The answer is that it is necessarily not, but on the public side they are the structural measures that will give us power to our private sector and to our companies, because without
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u78	Mr President! Why do we not have enough jobs? Well that is because we have too little competitiveness and the Finnish debt clock is ticking, and the fact is that unless we improve our competitiveness quickly, we are facing an even more serious unforeseeable crisis. Hopefully, the social partners will wake up to this reality before it is too late, and it is really starting to be the last moments to look for new keys to their labour market disputes. In my opinion, the government should convene a group of experts, independent of the government and the social partners, to seek agreement when the social partners seem to be failing. I ask the Minister for Labour: have you in the government considered this new approach?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u79	Mr President! Women’s unemployment has increased by nearly 30,000 over the year. At the same time, men's unemployment is about the same level as before. What is the government doing here? It's doing the opposite of what it should be. The Early Childhood Education Act is exporting between 2000 and 3000 jobs, especially for women. Yesterday we were talking about weakening the rotation leave. It is particularly targeted at women; you are weakening it. The mandatory laws will shorten the annual leave, cut the holiday allowance. I ask, Government: why do you weep and bring a bad mind to the women of Finland? Mr Lindström, Minister for Labour,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u80	Mr President! I share the view that we should now work together to find solutions to this problem of employment. Let us take all the good ideas of the opposition, but I hope that you too will listen to the good ideas of the government and genuinely find those solutions. One such big difference, however, is whether we are trying to find out in those old habits or whether we are courageously trying to reform them. It has now been said that, once we have had old habits, there have been between 40,000 and 50,000 new unemployed. We have to find some new ways. Certain things that have been called a problem on the side are already being corrected. It was said that there are long lines of lines for you offices. Now we genuinely want to diversify these employment services, involve the private, public and third sectors, to do more. But on a few points, I wonder where we have huge differences.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u81	Mr President! According to the Commission's calculations, Finland will be the weakest emerging economy in Europe next year after Greece. At the same time, one nation, Ireland, which bathed in the bottom of the European economy, will be number one in growth next year, as it is this year. What did they do? In Ireland, exactly what should have been done in Finland long ago has been done. It was there that wage costs were brought under control and thus also the rise in consumer prices. The reason is that we have not been able to observe the changing world around us. It seems that the working life interest groups believe that we can move on, as has been done for decades. First, we've got a lift. Finland, through wage costs, is uncompetitive and devaluation has corrected the sins committed. And it hasn't been many years since the same roulette has continued. Now the devaluation trick will not succeed during the euro. Now we need a new attitude, and the troops are being led from the front. It would be good to recognize those who were negotiating, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u82	Mr President! The group speech of the Coalition Party was made by a member of parliament with a research background, and he pointed out in his speech that studies show that new jobs will be created by reducing the duration of unemployment benefit. This is what I understood you to say. But if you are appealing to the information investigated, could you provide a list — I think that would be all right — of the studies that support your claim? As head of the Employment Office, I have seen a completely different truth in my day. The first collapse in the household occurred when unemployment was lost to an-sio-linked. The second came at the point when earnings-related subsidies were dropped and the income level for one person was at least halved at that point and the household of the whole family was in distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u83	Reply, Minister Lindström, one minute on the spot, and then Minister Vehviläinen, one minute on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u84	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, that is where I pleaded that there has been a little out of hand here, that is unfortunate. This debate has been quite constructive in some respects, but what you have against women: during the last parliamentary term, men's unemployment increased, and I did not ask you what you had against men. We are an example during this parliamentary term. We have nothing against women, we have withdrawn this proposal for compensation for Sunday work and overtime, we have removed it, and it has been replaced by a cut in the holiday allowance, which is more balanced for all sections of the population. We are looking at this side here too. We didn't do anything about sex...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u87	Mr President! I agree that it is inconceivable that people who have long been represented in this Chamber suggest that government would, as it were, deliberately undermine the conditions of people’s lives. You know that the main task of this government is to put the Finnish economy in order. That's the first mission. We are constantly looking for different ways to do this. But otherwise I think about this unemployment situation in such a way that we should, the opposition and the government, also look at those points where there is a consensus — I think it is very important — for example, proposals that can apply for individual employment below the threshold and get people to work. I would like to point out that during the coming winter in the government, proposals are also being sought for work-related issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u88	Mr President! I asked my questions in a very serious way and after considering it. I can tell you that I am very well aware of the issues I raised. Yesterday we spent a long time here at night discussing the rotation leave, and it was said that women use the rotation leave 70%, and now it was significantly weakened. Similarly, there are facts about the impact of the early childhood education law: when group sizes are raised, they are targeted specifically at women. The contractions and cuts made to universities, universities and universities are particularly relevant to the younger female researchers in the university, although men are also involved. I understand that Mr Lindström is not now dealing with these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u89	Mr President! Yes, the government has failed in active labour market policies when the budget for subsidised employment ran out in the summer. Start-up money ran out, start-ups couldn't start a business. The government will eat the seed potatoes of the future when you cut hard with research, education, basic education. But it is true that structural reforms in the labour market are needed and we want to support the good ideas that the government wants to take forward, for example what Minister Lindström said about the work bank experiment and the fact that these good results will be used in the future. After all, it is a good idea for companies to be able to employ the long-term unemployed and those who are able to work part-time without risk through a work bank, and many can thus gain access to a permanent job. Is information already available for the trial
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u90	Mr President! It is extremely important that, at a time like this, we talk seriously about employment development, because there is only war worse than unemployment. However, this debate has revealed that once the opposition has so frequently cultivated these intermediate issues, the opposition has a temporary fatigue. A comment by Mr Gustafsson, a representative whom I appreciated, about a conspiracy, as it were, that the Minister should: Lindström would have something against women, and the representative of the traditional governing party had quite the bottom line. The government, and the Minister for Employment in particular, will do everything in their power to bring Finland up, to a career in employment and growth and development. This is cheap. But we'll get out of the swamp. ♪ The government's got the guts ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u91	I will give Mr Katainen, Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Zyskowicz and then Mr Rehn two minutes on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u92	Mr President! Today we have heard that the Government's competitiveness package would be devoid of the right to exist and that the experts would not have been consulted again. Unfortunately, it seems that we do not have a complete picture of the situation, neither in this Chamber nor with the other parties. However, a number of parties are supporting the government's line. For example, in the opinion of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the difficult economic and employment situation is a sufficient basis for this competitiveness package, because the sustainability of the economy enables other things that citizens need, such as health care or unemployment security. The National Audit Office has also given its support to our policies, and it would be interesting to hear how you might be knocking these things out. It would be better now to find a way to make peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u93	Mr President! What makes the opposition miserable is that this list of government is so one-sided. It is this kind of harsh cut list for employees, and it concerns both cuts in wages and then cuts in sickness benefits and cuts in unemployment benefit, and the list can go on quite far. It seems surprising that this list is being presented by parties that did not say a word about these cuts before the elections. There are other options, and now I would like to say one more thing about them: the Demars have suggested using Emu buffers, temporarily reducing occupational pension contributions at a difficult stage. It would not be out of anyone, but would help build a bridge over this difficult phase. President Rinne has offered this model of Ringe, which is to use unemployment benefit, rather than pay for idleness, actively to create jobs so that you can take the voucher with you. Would it not, Minister Lindström, be possible to grasp these ideas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u94	Mr President! There has been an appeal for a social agreement here, and I want to join this group. The Government does not want to bring this competitiveness package here in Parliament, but wants organisations to be able to agree on ways to improve Finland’s cost competitiveness. Personally, I want to believe that organisations can still do this, because it is a win-win situation if they can, i.e. the workers who benefit from it, the employers who benefit from it and the Finnish society as a whole. Mr. Speaker! Now that we are discussing the issue of the left-wing union, we are forced to recall Mr Arhinmäki's medicines for unemployment and our financial difficulties, that is to say to cut working time to six hours. There's a big difference here. The Left Alliance believes that Finland will rise from this swamp by doing less work, the Coalition Party believes that we will do more work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u95	Before Mr Rehn's speech, I will give the answers to Mr Rinne, Mr Arhinmäki, and then Mr Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u96	Mr President! The particular concern of the opposition and the SDP is that the government is freezing the Finnish economy for this year and next year with its own inactivity. All measures are aimed at the possibility that something might happen in 2017. A particular concern is also that you have poisoned the Finnish labour market by placing yourself on the side of the Confederation of Finnish Industries and that the coercive package continues to strain the negotiating table. You are putting at risk a long-term wage solution, a stable wage solution that brings predictability. You are seriously endangering domestic competitiveness. Moreover, public finances do not benefit from these. At the moment, employees estimate that some EUR 1 billion will be lost in tax revenue from the perspective of these measures. I would like to ask again whether these EMU buffers are impossible for you to introduce, Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u97	Now, Minister Rehn, two minutes on the spot, and then I will give Minister Lindström a minute. — I am sorry, Mr Arhinmäki was about to miss out even though the promises had been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u98	Mr President! I understand very well — I am inconspicuous, silent, and when my speeches are rather dull and not evoke feelings, they are easily missed. Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u101	Mr President! Mr. Arhinmäki, you listed your character traits, but you forgot to be modest about it. Why lower working hours to only six hours? Maybe five hours or four hours, we could do even better. If you believe this logic of yours, you must also believe the story that Baron von Münchhausen lifted himself out of his hair when he got there. But when Members of the Left, including Mr Filatov, have said that when you concentrate on cost competitiveness and should focus on productivity, new products, innovation and so on: Representative Filatov, Mr Arhinmäki, companies work every day for better products, better productivity, more innovation. Unfortunately, what the government is able to give in concrete terms is very little. As far as well-being at work and absenteeism are concerned, the last thing we discussed at Sitra's meeting this morning was a project specifically aimed at moving forward,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u102	After that, Minister Rehn. After a long wait, not two minutes, but three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u103	Mr President! There has been a call here for an agreement rather than a confrontation, and I fully agree with that. On Independence Day, I listened to the sermon in the church, and there was a wish for reason and wisdom for the government and Parliament. That is quite right, and I am sure we all agree on this, but it has come to mind that we hope that the social partners will also have this wisdom. In recent weeks I have been in contact with the labour market centre organisations, together with Minister Lindström and Minister Orpo, and on this basis, like Mr Zyskowicz, I still believe that it is possible for them to reach a wider solution in the labour market and a solution to the way in which the competitiveness of Finnish work and production can be corrected relatively quickly and permanently. For its part, the Government has just set up a tripartite working group to prepare local agreements and improve the position of personnel in business decision-making. Local agreement and the status of staff go hand in hand and together constitute a condition for strengthening trust. We rely on tripartite preparation, and the work will continue in the spirit of the contractual society, and this law will take account of local agreement within the framework of collective agreements as its primary form. This is important in itself, but at the same time it can also act as a prop that keeps this door open if the social partners are able to agree with each other on a wider consensus to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production. Mr President! Finally, the main objective of the government in these reforms, as well as other economic and employment policies, is to strengthen confidence in the workplace, to reform the functioning of the labour market in order to save jobs and to encourage businesses to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u104	Minister Lindström, on site for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u105	Mr President! In fact, I will start with the fact that Mr Rinne there accused the government of being inactive. Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Lindtman, you all asked for an opinion on these Emu buffers. Let's start with this so-called model of the Ring. As I said in that speech that I opened up this opportunity, we have a model in preparation that includes these elements. I do not know whether your model also includes start-up money, i.e. the position of entrepreneurs in this. Then we will be on exactly the same course of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u108	Mr President! In this SDP's proposal, these reductions in occupational pension contributions would be carried out in cooperation with employees' and employers' organisations, i.e. they would be prepared on a triangular basis and would be fixed-term. In this context, a timetable for repayment of these payments would also be agreed. That is the starting point. Thank you for having prepared this model of banknotes and for taking it forward. This is an important issue because it will create jobs here and now, mobilise the current passive unemployment security for active use. It is very good that you have gone ahead with it. I would like to ask you again, when we have proposals on, among other things, the compensation for emissions trading, we have an energy tax refund, in connection with the additional reduction in bus charges, we have an alternative budget in relation to tourism: have you also considered these as quick employment measures, rapid growth elements in this situation? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u109	Mr President! Of course, we have a challenge to improve overall competitiveness. It involves the need for new products, it involves taking care of skills and so on. But it is much more than unit labour cost competitiveness. And, once the governmentdisturbs its freshmanship to 5+5+5,thereis a need toensurethatthereis a Many experts question, wonder where these figures actually came from. Many see that over the past two to three years, we in these analogue countries have seen clear developments in terms of wage levels. Germany, Sweden, OECD statistics and many statistics show that our unit labour costs are not in fact very low. It would be much more sensible to take the hand of the SAK, for example, to go on for many years with a moderate wage increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u110	Mr President! These experts are always being pursued here quite rightly. Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland, was thinking back some time about improving Finland’s cost competitiveness. He said that the best way would be for the social partners to find solutions to them, but if there was no solution, he always felt that the government had its own responsibility for the country's economy. The agreement is always better, but the solution is ultimately necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u113	Thank you very much. It is good that the government has started to investigate this active use of unemployment benefit. Indeed, when the government has also proposed that, for the last 100 days, earnings-related unemployment benefit should be cut, for example, and you well know, Minister Lindström, how different the employment situation is in different parts of Finland. And in Eastern and Northern Finland, for example, it does not help much by cutting earnings, when there are absolutely no jobs. But, instead, if you change to active use of that unemployment benefit, then it may be possible that the last 100 days that are actively made available, for example, as a wage subsidy, will enable you to perhaps then be able to hire a new employee. I would have liked to know what the timetable is now with this presentation. How soon can we get this motion here in Parliament? The Christian Democrats have just prepared a model for that, so let us use the last 100 days, because this must be defined in some way in time, so that there will be no competition neutrality problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u114	Mr President! From time to time this conversation was quite, I would say, amazing. Here at the mouth of a group speaker from Peruvians it was said that these statements by the opposition — by the way, they certainly do not laugh at the unemployed person who is waiting for a job or the employee, the low-paid woman or the worker who is threatened by the wage bill. But, Minister, I say that the positive surprise or news was that you are now taking a catch from this model of the Ringe. That is very important, and now we have one concrete step forward, perhaps from our SDP alternative budget. That is what we have put forward and, as has been shown here, we have a number of other proposals. The concern that we have had has been the fact that the government has not had any action to promote employment here and now, and now, specifically, by taking up these proposals of ours, we can certainly take these issues forward together. But I hope, President, that the arrogance of laughing at the opposition’s representations will disappear from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u115	Mr President! I never said I was laughing at you. I find it ridiculous that you said that you quickly acquired 35,000 man-years for us. You were in charge of the government as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u116	Mr President! What is a big problem in Finland is this investment depression. We have a situation in which big investments have begun, but we must now dare to think that the country is badly in need of investments which are slowly beginning to appear as improving employment, and then the internal market is beginning to develop, the domestic market is developing and it is gradually being created. But this cycle of positiveness will not start if we are not able to improve competitiveness, because it is absolutely essential for the future of this country to be able to get competitiveness in order and export back on track. For this land has risen before. When we joined the euro in 2002, we acknowledged to ourselves that we no longer have devaluation at our disposal, we must do this ourselves. And now we are here, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to challenge you: let us do it together, in a group, so that Finland will rise out of this swamp. It does not rise with talk or anything but agreement, cooperation and, above all, with the feeling that this country is worth building. ♪ By arguing ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u117	Mr President! Mr Merelle must now be corrected here that, when there was a Socialist Prime Minister in the country, 200,000 new jobs were created in this country during the two parliamentary term. Mr President! I have been a little annoyed by the fact that, before the elections, Lindström, the leader of the Group of the People's Party, felt that employment appropriations were an effective way of managing employment, you put forward 75 million more of them, and now you cut 150 million and, in addition, you produce these compulsory wage reductions, and any other employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u118	Mr President! Representative to Mr Hoskonen and many representatives of the government parties who have spoken in this Chamber: Of course it's the case that if you want to build it, you have to build it. But making an agreement does not mean that the agreement is made on the basis of an EK whisper on government terms. This is the difference between what a contractual society means and what a tripartiteism is. As a positive signal, although Mr Lindström is in a difficult place, he listens to the voice of the opposition and he heeds the hints. I am pleased to note with satisfaction that, on the proposal of the Left Alliance, we can gradually reduce social security so that companies which employ young people who are hard to employ — those who have just completed their studies and who have been unemployed for 200 days — can enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u119	Mr President! Of course, if there is a debate on election promises and others, it is good to remember that the Social Democrats announced in their electoral programme an adjustment of EUR 3 billion, of which EUR 2 billion by cutting and a billion by tax cuts, and there is currently a reduction of EUR 14 million from rural development funds. We do need a structural change in this situation. This country will not rise with such debt recovery, four limb braking. In this decade we are in a situation where we have the worst economic growth since the 1860s, when there were great years of hunger in Finland. In other words, we definitely need a clear structural change, and that is what we have to do in the government's programme. There will be painful solutions, it's quite clear. But in this economic situation
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u120	And now, Mr Heinäluoma, and then I will give a minute's reply to Minister Lindström on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u121	Mr President! When Mrs Lintilä talks about this debt recovery, it must now be spoken through that who here is increasing the debt. Who, Congressman Lintilä, is in debt? You are increasing your debt by over 500 million compared to this year, when the previous government was able to break down this debt trend even downwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u122	I will give Mr Vanhanen a reply and then Minister Lindström a minute on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u123	Mr President! When we start to compare the amount of debt in individual years, we have to go and see what's behind. How much is the proceeds from the sale of the property? As I recall, the previous government decided that 1.9 billion in that two-year period. How much of the state treasury has been eaten, reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u124	Mr President! You will not get away with it now, Mr Vanhanen: you are taking on more debt than the previous government took this year, and that is an undeniable fact. For six months you have been saying that debt is terrible and terrible and must be stopped, it comes and eats us and, as someone said, even takes you to custody. But you haven't been able to break it. You have not been able to cut it off, but you are going to be coldly presenting half a billion more debt to take next year than you were taking this year. And why? Once again, because you are not doing anything here and now in favour of employment, but because you are cutting back on employment appropriations and postponing your own activities frozen in order to influence a future with these compulsory laws. If you were to use what Mr Filatov said here, for example, to calculate here and now occupational pension contributions, to dismantle the EMU buffer, it would have a positive impact on the employer and also on the purchasing power side, and then commit to doing it back by making a payment programme for the years when the economy is working and we have people at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u125	Mr Vanhanen and then Mr Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u126	Mr President! The Government Programme and its annexes clearly define the pace at which adjustment measures are to be taken and go exactly according to the programme to which next year's debt-taking had already been foreseen for the programme in the spring. These measures of this year: a year ago, in these same debates, you were not able to anticipate the development of your own economic policy in the right way, but, for example, employment appropriations ran out during this year — in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u127	Now to the Minister, one minute on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u128	Thank you, Mr President. There has been even a constructive debate here for a while, and I will continue to go on to this model presented by the SDP, which they have named the Ringe model. Whatever the name, at the moment we were discussing these issues in the government negotiations, we talked about the employment budget and talked about what should be done, at the moment we began to wonder that something had to be done about this. Then, when I became a minister, at that very moment I also gave the order that this should be developed. Congressman Essayah asked me about the schedule. I'm sorry I can't say the exact timetable. This work has been done, but there is much more legislative work on our side. So I'll answer this question, I'll dig up that answer for you. I welcome the fact that, at least, we now have a consensus on this issue that passive money should be used for activation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u129	Your name was mentioned, Mr Filatov, as a reply to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u130	Mr President! It has been so long since I have taken this opportunity to raise another issue. — I welcome the fact that the Minister has recognised here that labour market policy is important and that subsidised employment and wage subsidies are important, because somehow it seemed that when this government started, rhetoric was that these measures were not needed, they were useless, they did not produce, they were bad. But now we see that if we do not have labour policy instruments, whether they are on the banknote model or on the budget side, then the result will be that our unemployment periods will be prolonged and we will have more exclusion and future structural unemployment will increase. But it's important to understand the timelines at all. When an estimate of the employment budget is made, it has been agreed every time — when the Social Democrats have been in the government — that the need for additional money will be assessed in the context of an additional budget, and if the money runs out, this will be done. But this government's line was different here, and I'm glad it's picking up here on the passive side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u131	Mr President! It is in everyone's interest to have a social pact. I too continue to appeal to all parties to return to the negotiating table. It would improve the competitiveness of our country. We also need wage moderation in agreement. But there is one thing that worries me, Mr President. After all, the government has in its programme a conditional additional list of new savings for children's allowances, including even larger cuts for universities and research. Is the government still carrying out these additional cuts, too, if there is no social pact? In my view, it is regrettable that there should also be:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u132	The first signatory to the interim question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u133	Mr President! Prime Minister Stubb's government mispredicts the need for this year's employment appropriations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u136	President! I refer to the previous speech by Mr Heinäluoma on debt. In the European Union, debt is now being brought under control, but we are still seeing an increase in debt, above all because we are facing a long-standing spiral of debt, which we must now be able to overcome. We have exceeded the critical limit, which means that we have owed more than 60% of GDP for some time. Last year we crossed the critical limit of the annual deficit, 3% of GDP, and this is debt under the decisions of the previous government, as we are well aware. In order not to be unclear: according to the Commission's recent forecast, which looks back, estimates the deficit level: 2014, minus 3,3 %, 2015, this year, minus 3,2 %, and next year's forecast is minus 2,7 %, which means that we will reach less than 3 % next year if Parliament approves the budgetary adjustment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u137	Mr President! In fact, I would have drawn attention to one detail. This is where Mr Filatov talked a lot about how we look after the ability of the unemployed to work and the long-term unemployed. It is a policy of principle in this new government policy in a certain way that we try to cling to the unemployment right away, at the very first stage, so that these long-term unemployed do not come and be born. You may have it the other way around that we're going to be here for a while and then we'll start rehabilitating. Of course, there are a lot of people who need that long process, but it involves whether it is easier for the employer to employ them, to create them, as has been the case in Denmark, and there the model was different. Could we also discuss how we can make it easier to create those jobs, the conditions that seem to be quite far-fetched in this debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u138	At this point, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister, three minutes from his chosen place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u139	Mr. Speaker! I regret that, because of the UN guests, I have not been able to hear the debate and I do not know exactly what or what tone has been spoken about here, but I would like to remind you that we are now at the top of the upturn in many indicators. In Germany there is almost full employment and the United States is approaching this situation, in Sweden the economy is growing at a rate of almost 4%, and many of these crisis countries that have made difficult adjustments in Europe have finally caught up with it. Two countries are missing in Europe, Greece and Finland. In Greece, according to Eurostat, unemployment is the highest in the European Union, and in Finland unemployment is growing fastest in the Member States. For seven years we have been explaining this issue through the collapse of Nokia, the challenges of the paper industry, the problems of the Russian economy and the situation in trade in Russia. But we must now put an end to this explanation and take the steps that are really needed now to create 110,000 new jobs during this regime. The target for increasing the number of employed persons is 110000. That is our constitutional duty. Public authorities must promote employment and ensure that everyone has the right to work, while at the same time ensuring the provision of basic services. What does this do, the only right thing that has a long-term, structural effect is that we restore the competitiveness of Finnish work. It requires a lot of action. We need the wage moderation of this competitiveness package, the social pact, which is what it is now called. We need measures to promote productivity. This is where Mr Karimäki asked about new savings. This is precisely what the competitiveness package aims to achieve, because, despite three attempts, we did not even reach agreement on the objective. It was then that the government made its own competitiveness package to avoid these savings. Congressman Arhinmäki, you asked about the record high dividends. The problem is that — or it is said that it is not a problem that companies make good results, but it is a problem that companies do not employ in Finland and do not invest in Finland, because at the moment Finland's competitiveness is on the model that we do not invest in Finland, but that these investments are directed outside Finland, and that is what we need to do together now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u140	I take it there's still a willingness to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u141	Mr President! I will only ask the Prime Minister one question. In October, when the IMF estimates the net debt ratio of all countries in their statistics according to the situation in October, the less indebted countries in Finland were only Norway, Qatar, Libya, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Oman, taking into account the financial assets of these countries in the oil funds. We have it in pension funds. We have a competitiveness challenge, we have structural challenges, but I also think it is honest when these debt estimates are presented and they shape this image, to be honest with you that Finland is a wealthier country than many others at the moment, even though our debt rate is worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u142	Prime Minister Sipilä responds, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u143	Mr President! This is real. Finland’s relative debt relative to GDP is not our biggest concern at the moment, but our debt rate is our concern. Seven years in a row, we've been in debt at a wild rate. The debt has almost doubled in seven years from that point of departure. So this is our problem, and it is due to the loss of competitiveness. That's what we need to catch up with each other. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u144	Mr President! We have a partial competitiveness problem in exports, that is, a partial problem. Not all sectors have a competitiveness problem, and companies do not have the same competitiveness problem within all sectors. During this parliamentary term, you will cut the amount of knowledge by EUR 3000 million from the knowledge side, from education, by EUR 3 billion. So you're cutting from the future? You will cut your wages by 5% if at some point they will come true. I ask Mr Rehn: will it be all right for you to have emissions trading compensation as proposed by the SDP, the energy tax refund system as proposed by the SDP, the additional reductions in fairway charges as proposed by the SDP or, for example, the introduction of this tax deduction related to the hiring of the first employee? Do you think that these can be used as factors of competitiveness, Mr Rehn?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u145	Mr President! The ratio of public expenditure to GDP is the one that worries. It has emerged on many occasions that local agreement could be the one that might reduce unemployment and create new jobs. And, of course, if employment can be improved, it will facilitate debt. Actually, my question is now for the opposition. I'd like to ask, do you have any attitude toward local reconciliation? And do you have a real desire to break down unemployment and, in particular, long-term unemployment by using possible local reconciliation to create conditions in which a long-term unemployed person can take up work, rehabilitate himself and break the barriers that exist there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u146	Madam President! We certainly do not, but we already have different systems to rehabilitate people who are not ready for work. We have rehabilitative work activities, which is the trail that comes through. But it is quite certain that there is nothing against local agreement in the opposition as such. It currently exists and I believe that there is agreement in Hakaniemi that an organised company may come to agree on local working conditions under the same structures if it is based on the fact that one of the parties is an organised worker and is based on an agreement. If, then, there is a general binding collective agreement in the background and in the framework of it, then employers are not in a different position, are organised or unorganised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u147	Madam Speaker! The Prime Minister's opening speech was excellent because it reminded us of the facts of the economic and international economy. The recession, which has been going on internationally for a long time, has in many respects been reversed and, at least, improving, but not for Finland. This reflects the fact that it is not a cyclical crisis for Finland, which seems to be constantly being forgotten. As I have already said in my opening speech, Finland is now in a new situation compared to its previous major economic and economic challenges. When Finland joined the EU, opened its economy to international competition and finally gave up its own currency, we moved to the globalisation world and the old national economy was left behind. At the same time, we have to leave the old thinking behind how we survived. We are in a new situation, we need new thinking, and that is what this government has brought both today and in all its programmes constantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u148	Secretary Rehn, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u149	Mr President! I thank Mrs Rinnes for her constructive speech, in which she also said that Finland has a partial competitiveness problem. That is certainly true, it is quite a major competitiveness problem, especially in relation to Sweden and Germany and the euro area on average. There is also a need for action to address the costs of industry, and you are quite right in that, and that is why the government programme assumes that the costs of industry will not be increased during this parliamentary term, and that is why, among other things, the issue of emissions trading compensation is now very concretely in the preparation process and will be part of the government's decisions when this work is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u150	Mr President! There have been a number of good speeches here. Mr Kalli asked if we had any attitude against local reconciliation in the opposition. The Christian Democrats do not have it because we had it in the electoral programme and our position on it has not changed in any way. We encourage the government to move forward and support the proposal when it comes. The fact is that Finland has suffered asymmetric shock at the same time as we have lost competitiveness, as the Prime Minister also said. We cannot cope with these great challenges by arguing and accusing, as we have done a little in the Chamber today. We should humbly look for the best solutions, the way forward, because the challenge that we all face is to ensure the continuation of reconciliation, unity and unity from one generation to the next. That's what we Finns of today owe to veterans of our wars,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u151	Mr President! I believe that this debate has been constructive and has moved things forward. Now, Minister Rehn's announcement that the government is prepared to introduce this compensation for emissions trading is a good thing, it is an important issue for industry. I hope, as I understand it, Mr Rehn, that you will take it precisely with the model proposed by the SDP, namely full compensation of EUR 80 million. We have presented it here in the alternative budget. When, earlier here, Minister Lindström talked about rail tax and halving bus fares, unfortunately, this government programme states that they will only be extended for one year. It would now be important to give industry a view: apart from a long-term moderate wage settlement, which unfortunately is now at risk by the government's coercive policy, it would be useful to withdraw the coercive laws, and it would also be advisable to continue these measures. But, Mr President, the main difference that we still have here is that when your strategy is based entirely on these compulsory wage reductions or reductions in other ways, which would only come into force 17, we expect you to act here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u152	Mr President! Yesterday, President Pauliine Koskello of the Supreme Court suspected that the role of the Minister of Justice could not be carried out on a half-day basis. At a time when there is mass unemployment and very high long-term unemployment and also high youth unemployment, it seems difficult to believe that the job of the Minister for Employment can be done with only one hand. It is not right, neither for the unemployed nor for anyone else, to put at risk the best possible management of employment by stubbornly holding on to the artificial idea of two portfolios. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have often said that you are prepared to withdraw decisions if they have proved false. In the face of this high unemployment, would it not be wise, responsible and right for a government to have at least one person who, full-time, would focus on dealing with this very difficult employment situation? Have you re-evaluated this matter in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u153	Minister Lindström, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u154	Madam President! I don't like the fact that... Of course, it's my job to judge anyone, but I'm not going to judge it, so it's up to the voters in the election to see what happens to him. I've been beaten up with briefcases like this, and I'm working on it as well as I'll ever be able to. If it is not good enough for anyone, then there is nothing you can do, but you can be sure that I will put all my resources into this work for both ministries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u155	Madam President! Much has been said here, Prime Minister, about this debt that you were worried about, but I would now like to repeat the message that we in the SDP have had, that we are very concerned that the fact is that this government is taking half a billion more debts than its predecessors. And the fact is that, just in case, Mr Lintilä is told that the SDP's alternative budget is more than 300 million less than that of the government. But the point — if I may use this word in this speech — is why the government is in debt, because you do not create jobs here and now, and in the future you will be in debt even more, to debt this country if you are now cutting out education and making these savings, cuts, short-sighted policies, of which many economists have also warned. Prime Minister, Minister for Labour, we now need a dark stream across the bridge, we need employment measures here and now. Could you take a catch here, please?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u156	Mr President! Yes, the fact is that once the government has done this programme, the main thing and the main idea is that we are mobilising investment, more work. If we stay in the position of being able to stand up straight, we will soon have the communities that lent us money that are demanding a higher interest rate. If we do not mobilise this employment and investment, as the Prime Minister said in his speech, then we have a situation in which interest rates go up, then we will quickly go beyond the borders of 1 to 2 billion countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u157	Madam President! Interesting argument that you do not create jobs here and now. We are trying to look at the world and Europe, where we have been able to create these jobs, and it has been seen as a solution model, a major factor, for example, a local agreement, at the workplace, with local agreement. Now I am renewing Mr Kalli's question: are you also in favour of this wider local agreement in the SDP? The Christian Democrats have already said that we are. We are genuinely talking about the contractual structures that exist in Germany, for example, where more jobs have been created and jobs have been preserved. Or is it just a local agreement for you that the social partners agree, do not genuinely reconcile in the workplace and create new jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u158	Madam President! I suppose it must be quite honest to say that the government does not create the jobs, yes, the entrepreneurs are the ones who create jobs and create jobs. While I was listening to this earlier here, I was a little surprised that there was now an aggravation about what Germany was doing. If I don't remember quite correctly, then Germany dropped quite a bit of wages here a few years ago, But, Minister, Sitra did say that we have 350,000 hidden jobs. This would therefore be an excellent opportunity for us to seize it and thus create new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u159	Mr President! I was thinking, in the actual speech that was requested, of returning to this employment and, above all, to long-term unemployment. There have been several references here that Finland, after the Emu solution, was not prepared for the fact that we have this uncyclic economy and how we are prepared. However, when I was involved in those negotiations, I thought I would tell you how it was prepared. Firstly, the social partners agreed with each other on this and it was an extremely important statement that EMU does not require any interference in the general integrity of the agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u160	Madam Speaker! What do Finns want? The Finnish people want us to be able to reform society, we are able to take measures to reduce the administrative burden, we are able to create jobs, we are able to mobilise investment and, above all, we are able to agree on these issues. That is why I think Mr Rinne deserves to be congratulated on that last and previous speech. They were just the mental ones and the ones that we now need and need. It acknowledged that the world has changed. We have the single currency, we have the competitiveness gap, and reforms must be made now. That is why we need more flexibility, more local reconciliation, more common trust and more strength. Then companies will also be able to invest and dare to invest and rely on their future and create jobs. There's no other way to do it. That is why we need a new culture of reconciliation, and we must thank Mr Rinne again for that, and forgive Mr Rinnes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u163	Madam President! The Swedish Parliamentary Group also believes that it is a very good thing that the Minister of Labour has now taken this path, that we should try to achieve a smart system of local reconciliation that will benefit our labour market. At the moment, we also have a problem in this country that, although new jobs are created and we have more unemployed than in the past, jobs and the unemployed do not face up to them. At the moment we have some 65,000 vacancies, and what are we going to do about this? Is it expected that, in the old way, this problem of matching can be resolved, or has the government considered that the supply of private employment services could also be increased? We've had a few experiments. They have shown that they have done well, and I am sure that the whole country will benefit from it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u164	Mr President! There has been specific talk here of where more jobs can be obtained. Well, it is mainly created by entrepreneurs, and that is what this government wants to promote so that people can employ themselves and others better in the future. This includes, in particular, the extension of the unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. In previous speeches, there has been incorrect information that self-employed workers who are doing jobs would be putting this unemployment benefit at risk. This is by no means true, but it is precisely to make it easier for them to accept assignments better in the future and to maintain unemployment security. It is precisely for business name entrepreneurs that this unemployment benefit will finally be used better. Then I would have said, too, when the opposition was very concerned about these women-dominated areas, that there is now a particular weakening of the conditions of their employment relations. I am pleased that the opposition will see to it that this social agreement is now hopefully being reached and that the male-dominated sectors too will be involved in these employment efforts and will ensure that the women-dominated sectors do not suffer any particular weakening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u165	Mr President! Increasing employment rates is an important means of economic policy, but also of employment policy. I am now very concerned about the inability of ministers to make these savings decisions and assess their impact. I wonder at the meeting today of the ministerial working group on skills and training, which I believe both ministers here now belong to, and you have today decided how the reform of vocational education and training will be implemented. and you have indicated to the airport that starting points can also be stopped. If it is put through in concrete terms so that all the providers of education reduce the place of initial vocational training, it is 17,600 seats out of 47,000. I mean, I'm upset. I have never imagined that any sane person in Finland could support such news. That is why this reform fell in this Chamber last season. I'm asking now if there is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u167	Mr President! There should be constructive speeches in this Chamber, and there have been some who have not spoken to Mr Lindström and Mrs Merta. I hope it's all right. For the citizens, decent work should be the guiding principle and the aim, regardless of the party, also for the opposition. I'd like to ask you: Do you really think so, too? Is that your goal? Unemployment eats up self-esteem. Especially in the case of young people, this is particularly dangerous because young people build a vision of the future and build trust in overcoming the challenges of life. There's plenty of power when you're young. After college, we should get to work right away. The Government is also working hard to tackle youth unemployment, even though the times are tough in Finland. I would like to ask: how does the government promote one of its top projects for young people, speeding up the transition to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u168	Mr President! Article 18 of the Constitution states that it is the task of the public authorities to promote employment. In fact, we would like to have an article in the Constitution which states that it is the task of the public authorities to promote social trust, particularly between the social partners. There has been a great deal of call here for the possibility of local reconciliation and for flexibility and perhaps more speed for employment, through local reconciliation. I believe that this would be possible if, in principle, we had much greater confidence in the labour market between the parties involved, between employers and employees. When this confidence can be built and strengthened and government action supported, then it will be possible to move forward with local agreement, alliance agreements to find good solutions, moderate cost developments, and comprehensive solutions will also be made. Trust rests on the way our competitiveness gets moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u169	Madam President! Finland has always been able to make progress through cooperation, joint agreement, and hopefully this will also be the case in the future. Finland, which is almost 100 years old, has changed very much over the years, and so has the labour market and jobs, and this should also be taken into account in the future. Improving employment requires improving the competitiveness of Finland, and therefore the structures also need to be reformed. What we need now and in the future is real wage moderation and local reconciliation in the workplace. Similarly, the bureaucracy of employment must be dismantled. Having listened to this debate today, I listened very warmly to Mrs Rinte's speech, in which she said that there is a partial competitiveness problem in Finland. I would have asked the opposition again: what do you think, whether it is a temporary problem, whether it is a temporary cyclical problem or a permanent structural problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u170	Mr President! This is an easy answer: both because we have cyclical problems in other sectors, but we also have those sectors where the structural problem is permanent, and that is where we need to find solutions. But when many times have been asked what is the concept of local agreement on this side of the Chamber, this too is actually a matter of time. Here and now, it is worth trying to use as far as possible the instruments we already have in the collective agreement to promote local reconciliation and to communicate them, because it is quite clear that these are not known at all workplaces. It's a fast road. The second road, which is developing local reconciliation, is then slower. And here are two essential elements: are we forcing local reconciliation, as some in this Chamber seem to want, or are we developing local reconciliation by agreeing? And if we truly want to agree, then the only way to find the models of local reconciliation is to — I understood that this is what the government is now seeking in this last working group —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u171	Madam President! The Prime Minister came and went. The starting point for this debate was that the government does not have a credible programme for improving employment. Now that the Prime Minister is not answering, I would like to ask Mr Lindström two questions: When this year employment appropriations ran out before the summer, with what mathematics, what logic will they be reduced to this year's level, start-up money or pay subsidies next year? The second question relates to the fact that, in fact, the main means of employment seems to be wage cuts, i.e. these compulsory laws. Yesterday, the Finnish Labour Institute published its estimate that it will produce 4,000 jobs in the long term, possibly. Today, Professor Roope Uusitalo, President of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, has said that he considers these government calculations far too optimistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u172	Madam President! I think that the Minister of Labour has a lot of good things in his toolbox, such as this local arrangement, these electronic employment services, increasing the importance of private employment services, then this shift of difficult-to-work issues from the centres to the municipalities that have now paid for these Kela fines, so that there are a lot of good things here and not just bad things — and then this basic income experiment which the government has in its programme. Somehow it feels like there's a little bit of acid in here now, said the fox from the wildberry-type situation now. When the present government is implementing this long-term dream of left-wing union, then a mid-term issue will be asked. That you could at least be happy about this. When people here have mocked the idea of taking on additional debt and more debt than the SDP in its shadow budget, in practice this additional debt goes only to these costs of immigration, which are the result of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u173	Madam President! There are more nice news for me in this debate. The first is that the Minister of Employment is about to introduce the Ringe model as an experiment in employment, the second is the Minister of Economic Affairs for the Compensation of Emissions Trading. It has been promised to consider the use of Emu buffers in occupational pension contributions. And now for today, the fourth thing I hope will come to a positive conclusion is this support for the remuneration of the first employee through tax deductions. What do you think of this? That has not yet been answered here. And then here's the saddest thing. In other words, when this critical attitude towards these coercive laws comes from more than just the opposition,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u174	Madam President! When there is repeated talk of forced laws, it is now stated that they are mandatory laws only in the sense that the government is forced to act and do something if there is no agreement on the part of the labour market. But let's hope there's an agreement. It has been said here that there is an obstacle to agreement with a government that has only sided with the EK. This has not happened, but it is, of course, honest to say that if we seek the cost competitiveness of Finnish work and Finnish companies — that they can do better in that world — then we cannot make a fair decision, for example, to reduce the costs of companies by 10% and increase the costs of companies by 10%. Such equity is not possible for its objective. But the question still has to be asked when the representative — excuse me, perhaps the future representative — from Aalto Metalliitto said that there should be no intervention in any of the existing working conditions, that we should cut out students, unemployed people, pensioners, children, education: is it too much to demand that those who have jobs work do more work for two days a year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u175	Madam President! Here both ministers and all the parliamentary groups have been of the opinion that unemployment is too high and we must do everything we can to achieve it. And now these last debates have focused on this local agreement and other flexibility that is obviously needed. We should remember, however, that local agreements have been in place for small businesses for a long time and that they have opportunities for growth. These opportunities for growth often remain untapped because of the lack of funding, and the obligations of banks, especially at local level, have increased in the past as a result of the increase in solvency requirements. As a result, entrepreneurs are forced to provide better guarantees and credit margins are also higher. Now, I believe that the government should make a significant contribution to this assessment of these 360,000 hidden jobs presented by Sitra today. Te-centres, municipalities and businesses must be provided:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u176	Madam President! I should like to thank the opposition for the constructive speeches that have been made here from time to time. Of course, we all want unemployment to be reduced and the economy to rise and the welfare society to be saved. And yes, the government is doing an enormous amount of work, but it is true that in six months or a year the government itself will not be able to create a huge number of jobs, but that the jobs will be created there, and of course the government will have to create those conditions for it. It is, of course, sad that we also have to cut back on the employment budget, but I would stress above all that the conditions for businesses to operate are being made easier and that small businesses are better able to operate. Our business field is terribly narrow compared to our western neighbour, Sweden, for example, and this is indeed one of our major problems of international competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u177	Mr President! Finland urgently needs new products and services that can be exported to international markets. Finland will never compete only at prices, but will have to invest in new products, especially quality. That is why government cuts to research and innovation funds are short-sighted policies. In the Committee on the Future, we have heard a number of experts who, in the strongest terms, have criticised the government's savings in the fields of education, science, research, development and innovation. Investing in these would be a sensible way for economic growth and job creation. No key projects will help if, for example, the basic funding for research, development and innovation is taken away, as is now being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u178	I will give the floor to the representatives of Essayah, Kankaanniemi, Heinäluoma, Viitanen and Vanhanen, and then the ministers will reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u179	Madam President! Yesterday, the government published an action programme on asylum policy, and Minister Lindström, on that basis, has hoped that asylum seekers would be able to obtain an immediate work permit. However, we currently have this availability test in use in Finland. And I would have asked what the government's position is as to whether we still have access in Finland, because it is of course extremely important for asylum seekers to be able to integrate quickly, quickly to the exclusion of working life, but there may also be a risk that it is no longer worth applying for a work-based residence permit from third countries, because it is easier to enter the Finnish labour market by registering as an asylum seeker. So, just a simple question: do we currently have access testing in place or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u180	Madam President! Companies are creating jobs for us. That is why we need a social pact or, in general, an agreement to improve the competitiveness of businesses and the conditions for employment. And that is where we must get the unanimous appeal of this Chamber to the social partners to use the freedom of contract they have today to conclude this agreement. Mr President! At the moment, we have a Minister for Labour, who is historic in the sense that, as the first Minister for Labour, he, almost all the time, is determined to make active use of passive unemployment appropriations. This is a truly significant change, and I also hope that the whole Chamber will give him credit for this and, on the other hand, give him the opportunity to mobilise almost EUR 6 billion in employment and job creation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u181	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, who apparently has now had time to leave, spoke about this issue of compulsory law. It is therefore worth recalling why these are referred to as mandatory laws. Of course, the original reason was that Prime Minister Sipilä, in his presentation of these laws, said that the government is making mandatory legislation to decide on these working conditions. And here is the peculiarity that the government is preventing employees, employees and employers from agreeing on this matter other than what this legislation is to be presented. That is not generally known in Western countries: Parliament does not lay down working conditions, preventing these working conditions from being agreed differently than as a minimum level of protection. And this is the unique thing, and that is why I believe that these coercive laws will never come into force. But when these have had good ideas, I would like to acknowledge, yes — when I listened to both Minister Lindström and Mr Rehn — that I find it exceptionally honest that the government is also prepared to take new ideas after the government programme has been approved,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u182	Mr President! I agree that the two things that have now been presented in the SDP's alternative budget have now been almost promised by the ministers. And when we actually asked here earlier about these reductions in the TEL fee and so on, we have a lot of ideas, and I hope this will continue. And I originally asked, Mr President, to speak on this very issue of forced labour, and to stress this, that we have had the concern, specifically now, that when the government has pushed this situation into this and it seems to believe that it is only and only that it is the way to improve employment, by cutting the wages of employees by 5%, the effect of which could then be seen as a very small impact on employment, if at all, perhaps in 2017, that is an appalling situation, while the number of unemployed is increasing at the same time, the long-term unemployed, the young unemployed. This is a cold message. That's why it's important for you now to catch these for ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u183	Mr President! I hope that, in return, the SDP will now take a strong, positive approach to this promotion of local agreement, because it has the right chance for us, that there will be a good consensus among the organisations, and then it will certainly be a system that can be agreed locally, and then, if it is not possible to agree, then there will be a TES as a tailboard. But Mr Arhinmäki raised an important point about me, these dividends next spring: what is it really about? I think it should be a terrible warning signal to us if there are large dividends in the forecasts, because it tells us that the owners who can calculate consider that there is no prospect that keeping their money in the company could make investments that would produce the same way, but that they will take the money out of investments and invest it somewhere else that will give them a better return. In this respect, the market only works in this way. This is predicting that the investment outlook is unfortunately weak and is a serious signal for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u184	Now the ministers answer and then we go to the list of speakers. — Minister Rehn, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u185	Madam President! In his constructive speech, Mr Lindtma referred to the compensation for emissions trading. For my part, I am prepared to look positively at the SDP proposals, but it is not worth putting words in my mouth. So your interpretation is a step in the right direction, but maybe a little far-reaching. The Government has agreed on a significant compensation for emissions trading for Finnish industry, with a maximum of 50 per cent agreed on in the frameworks, which means that the estimate of subsidies will be EUR 35 million in 2016 and the next EUR 45 million in 2016 and then EUR 55 million from then on. More detailed decisions on these will be taken in the spring, and then a notification with the EU Commission will be needed. As such, the entire emissions trading system needs to be reformed, because the electricity market is not working at the moment. This will be assessed in the context of the preparation of the national energy and climate strategy, as long as we have the Paris decisions and the EU 2030 decisions known. Finally, Mr Ihalainen's speech, in which he drew up four points on the Emu buffers: quite rightly, these were defined at the time, and the government will act accordingly. That is precisely why we are acting in favour of the social pact, which naturally depends on the social partners, and we are promoting the strengthening of local reconciliation and the role of staff, particularly in the form of tripartite preparation, which I hope will provide the basis for a wider consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u186	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u187	Thank you, Madam President. After all, this debate went to the constructive side and the plus side in the sense that all the serious options that have been put forward here, at least I take them seriously, come from anyone. Of course it is clear, because the situation is so difficult, and even if it were not, I think it is foolish not to listen to the other person. It is then a different matter, and what conclusions will be drawn when we look at it a little bit: whether it works or not. Among other things, Mrs Myllykoski has approached them with her own options, and I take them seriously, constructively, and I will listen to them and see them because I see a very strong potential in them. They brought up these hidden jobs, 360,000. It is, of course, an enormous amount, and it only tells us what the situation is like at the moment. We need this development of the labour market, so it must be seen as positive. I have received feedback from it at some point that I would question the professionalism of these people who work there. That is not the point; this system is simply not able to respond to this current situation. That's why we need to reform it. The representative, Mr Henriksson, drew attention to this problem, which is indeed 65,000 vacancies, and to the role then played by private employment services. In that speech, I said that the government will strengthen that role by increasing partnership cooperation with personnel service companies, private recruitment services, business associations and trade and trade unions. We need all these measures; there is no reason to compete here. At the same time, this ict side needs to be put in place in such a way that information about vacancies and employers goes smoothly everywhere. Then I think we'll get away with that hidden job problem at least a little bit smaller. Thank you for this debate. There have been criticisms, but constructive proposals have come in here, and everyone knows that this work is huge, but I will do my best and the government will support it, and that goes forward. — Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u188	Let's move on to the list of speakers. It's still a young night. We'll have a lot of conversations here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u189	Madam President! Local agreements, social pacts and wage moderation are indeed what this country needs. The collapse of the social pact for the fourth time in these months was certainly the biggest disappointment in the domestic news. At the moment, speculations about what is happening now are becoming quite wild. There's already been a flash of strike cards. The honours and losses of power policy have also been distributed publicly. However, we should now take a breath and return to the real heart of the matter. How can we create new jobs in Finland? The Government has constantly sought to improve Finland's competitiveness, which we are forced to improve, that employment should improve and that we should have sufficient tax resources to finance welfare services. Prime Minister Sipilä has rightly given a strong signal of openness in order to continue the negotiations. It is in the interest of labour market policy to be able to return to issues and negotiating tables, even if strong opinions are expressed. Making progress would always be the best solution. This agreement, however, requires responsibility and now seems to be the Achilles' heel. If the social pact now fell once and for all, the government will move forward with its competitiveness package. No one would want to reach out to competitiveness by means of parliamentary action alone. However, the government asked the social partners, who would have a much wider choice of means in this area, to put together a model that would be suitable for the labour market today and be as balanced as possible. The collapse of the social dialogue showed that the social partners did not want to prioritise a balanced solution as the most important of all. During the negotiations, wage and salary earners' organisations and the political opposition have crucified the government's proposals as mandatory laws. I find the term 'forced law' misleading and I understand, however, that it is just so strongly the dissemination and communication of images. In fact, talking about forced laws shows that those who swear to the name of a contractual society have lost control of the agreement. After all, agreement requires a responsible and comprehensive approach, consideration of the counterparty and understanding of the whole. At some point the negotiations between the social partners have gone further into mutual competition. Overstatements are taking place on both sides, in turn the EK and the ACP have recently shown. From the political point of view, the situation is rather distressing because the government has tried to bring to the negotiations the voice of the unemployed, whose representative is not on any of the traditional tables. When it is said that we are not prepared to give up the benefits achieved, it is not said to the Prime Minister or to the Government. A person who works there is talking to an unemployed person who wants to get a job. Mr President! The ILO agreement accepts a limited derogation from the Convention on collective bargaining as a reason for a difficult economic situation. Exceptions must be limited in time, and therefore: The competitiveness laws of Sipilä's Board of Directors are also valid for three years. The ILO's argument is included in the government bill. It is true that, under Finnish conditions, the proposal is very exceptional, but as we all know, it is time for it to be exceptional. Now we need a new type of contractual society, one that sees the common interest of all Finns. There is a need for a negotiating approach that seeks to preserve social peace. The labour market is now being asked at all to put the common interest before the rest. Despite strong opposition criticism, the National Audit Office and the EU Commission have supported the Government's economic and employment policy. It also seems that the majority of citizens are still behind the government line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u190	Madam President! The previous government failed in managing employment. During this period of government, the opposition will also create more unemployment. The SDP and the Left Alliance have both laid off their employees. People have justifiable reasons for confusion and even fear. People are afraid of their jobs, their livelihoods, their homes. However, the left does not seem to believe in their own means, as the omnipotentness of speech, or resuscitation, or even a six-hour working day, was not used instead of dismissals. This recovery is known, among other things, from Greece, where the employment policy of the left-wing brother Syriza has been seen in practice. Unfortunately, last season, construction, repair and manufacturing workers were forgotten, resulting in the highest number of unemployed job seekers in these groups. The government is particularly concerned about the employment of men, which in the last period was clearly reduced more than women, so that is how this gender equality has been taken into account. Employment should not be prevented by the inflexibility that has been going on in the country for decades. In addition, debt-taking and tax tightening are not a viable solution. One representative of the opposition has said: we need to have revitalising public projects, we need to support new emerging sectors. Public projects financed by debt and tax resources would certainly be in the minds of their supporters, but such activities would increase indebtedness, taxation and thus the plight of citizens. It has also been suggested that efforts should be made to minimise the social disadvantages caused by unemployment. I agree with that. More and more people are long-term unemployed and the problem is not just a political problem and therefore a problem for political decision-makers. Long-term and structural unemployment is a major challenge. We have up to 200,000 hard-to-work people who have inherited from the politics of the parties now in the opposition. However, the old ways have been exhausted. The current government has taken decisive action as seasonally adjusted employment has increased. Since June, an increase of 15,000 people have been employed, and they are apparently not just employed in reception centres. The Labour Market Administration is still living in the past, and it is becoming a major step forward, as Minister Lindström has already mentioned. Mr President! Improving cost competitiveness plays a key role in improving employment. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that, due to government activities, employment in the private sector will improve by up to 30,000 people in the long term. If this calculation is doubted, it should be remembered that the Ministry of Finance is the same ministry where representatives of Urplainen and During the last season, Rinne was free of alternation, and they have now switched off completely, with a word they used to rely on as a basic rock. Mr President! However, improving employment is a process, not automation. Compared to Germany or Denmark, we are in a weak position from the point of view of the export industry, and it will take a long time before we are at the same starting point. In part, our problems are also the result of a rigid monetary policy based on the euro. Paavo Väyrynen, the central European parliamentarian, has taken a good initiative in correcting the state of affairs. We should not be paralysed, but work for the Finns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u191	Mr President! We all share a common concern about the employment situation in Finland. There are 450,000 unemployed people in Finland. Not much light is yet visible in the export industry. There is a real fear that unemployment is about to explode in the hands, or, in fact, it has already exploded. There must be particular concern about the increase in long-term unemployment. The situation of those who are hardest hit by employment would require particular attention. There is still no visible slowdown in the growth of the long-term unemployed. There were 113,000 of them in October, which is 20,000 more than one year earlier. We all know that the longer the period of unemployment becomes, the harder it will be to re-employment. The problem must be tackled before these people fall from the labour market once and for all. In addition to the current cyclical situation and high levels of unemployment, effective employment measures are needed to enable workers and jobs to face up to long-term unemployment, there may also be other social problems requiring multi-professional assistance and support. Again, sufficient resources are needed for all of these. When the government wants to cut back on both the employment budget and the various rehabilitation measures, there is a risk that long-term unemployment will continue to be high, so that we can eventually have a large number of people of working age falling from the labour market. At the same time, people are forced to become customers of income support, which in turn increases the cost of society in the long term. Once again, short-term savings targets will only increase costs in the future, not to mention the fact that at worst people will be excluded from poverty for the rest of their lives. Mr President! Although our concern is shared, the means to resolve it are very different. The compulsory law package tries to tackle structural unemployment in particular, but when it is done, it has forgotten the cause-effect link between unemployment linked to the demand deficit and the importance of maintaining the working and working capacity of those who are already employed. Unemployment due to a demand deficit will not be corrected by reducing wages or by forcing people to prolong working hours or by fines. On the contrary, these measures undermine people's ability to work and motivation to work, which is not in line with the objective of extending working careers. At its worst, the government's sickness penalty weakens the objective of extending working careers and better working life. The most affected areas would be areas where workers are exposed to infections, e.g. in customer contacts, and where therefore, on average, they are more ill, such as the education and care sector. According to a study by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, in the case of short illness, the system based on the worker’s own declaration and trust actually reduces sick leave and does not increase it. According to Statistics Finland, as many as 28 per cent of Finnish employees work overtime without compensation. It is therefore appropriate to ask what kind of human image the decisions now being planned are based on. It seems as if the management doctrines of the early 20th century have been introduced that workers should be punished to eradicate laziness and underachievement. This seems offensive because, based on the Finnish Protestant values, we are still a hard-working people and hard-working people. Thus, in pursuing short-term savings and a quick competitive leap, the government seems to be digging a hole for future growth, working life and well-being. The measures now presented only reduce purchasing power and well-being at work and reduce people's chances of staying involved in a changing world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u192	Madam President! The short-term labour market forecast published by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in autumn 2015 shows that the number of unemployed job seekers actively seeking employment will rise next year, 2016, to 370,000 persons. Adding to this all those unemployed who do not appear in these statistics can speak of mass unemployment involving more than half a million Finns. In particular, long-term unemployment is on the rise and there is no slowdown in this growth. The labour market forecast states that all indicators, i.e. all indicators, indicate a prolonged rate of unemployment, and the problem of matching the labour market is getting worse and worse. The unemployment rate will rise to 9.5 per cent and 9.7 per cent this year. Madam President! In view of the above, I would like to highlight two letters: demand and training. Each of us in this Chamber knows that the profitability and ability of companies to employ and invest depends on people wanting to buy and can afford to buy their products and services. The purchasing power of people is the life stream of companies, which is also referred to as the overall demand for the economy. Domestic demand has kept Finland’s head on the surface in a recession situation where the foreign sector does not support Finland and the private sector is in a serious investment recession and a major debt problem. In the case of the economic crisis in both cyclical and structural terms, both cyclical and structural measures are needed. Cyclical measures are like the fuel of a car that makes it possible for the car to get from A to B. As a destination, we all have economic restructuring, but if the fuel runs out in the middle of the journey, we will not get there. Now the government starts off with a semi-empty tank and hopes that the fuel will be enough to reach its destination. And with regard to structural reforms in support of employment, the aim must be that social security always makes it worthwhile to accept work, to employ oneself and to develop oneself. The Government’s intentions to carry out a basic income test support this idea. But the government's proposal to weaken the conditions for self-employed workers' livelihoods and to exclude freelancers from the whole of unemployment benefit is a terrible step backwards in this objective. Instead of weakening the status of temporary workers, for example, combined insurance should allow for simultaneous entrepreneurship and paid employment. It's today. I hope that the government lives in this day and recognizes that short-term and job-work is not predictions for the future, but people's everyday lives. Politics must respond to the break-up of work. Madam President! Everyone in this room knows that automation and digitalisation challenge all routine work and many old occupations will disappear or change shape. For example, VR’s decision to close two thirds of ticket points is a good example of this, since most customers buy their tickets online instead of a ticket point. We cannot prevent change, but what can we do: we must adapt to change. When the labour market is undergoing a huge change, the importance and importance of education and skills will become even more important. In the future, labour market mismatches will only become more acute when the skills of the available labour force are not sufficient to meet the skills requirements of the vacancies. One can rightly say that education policy will be even more at the heart of employment policy in the future. Especially when unemployment is prolonged, skills become outdated and return to work becomes more difficult. When a person is dismissed, it is not enough for him to take care of his or her ability to work and know-how, but also to be able to update that level of competence to meet demand. In addition to human beings, society must support this continuous learning in terms of the benefit system and employment services. I do not want to be the person in the future who says here in the Chamber that I warned this government not to cut out of education, and now we see the effects of these cuts. I therefore continue to appeal to Prime Minister Sipilä, Finance Minister Stubb and Foreign Minister Soini: cancel the training cuts and, for example, take up some of the proposals made by the Greens, some of the demarches, some of the RKPs, some of the KD's alternative budgets and prevent this historic error.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u193	Madam President! The mid-term issue is justified and unfortunately topical. If we have 450,000 unemployed in this country, we have to worry about it. Today, with the help of their ministers, the government has answered the questions asked. Some of the answers have been constructive and it has been easy for the opposition to agree with them when the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has taken up the opposition's own proposals and made them known in this Chamber. It is quite true that the social partners are currently looking forward to having a social agreement appointed by the government, but it is a very limited and purely labour market solution which aims to steer you in the direction that, under these conditions, what we are proposing, we can agree. The wrong starting point in the contractual society cannot be achieved together with the government's objective of achieving more employment. I think the trade union movement has met well. In particular, the reality has been seen even in the Hakanieminranta, that the leading export industry is ahead. It is important to us, however, that we live and manage by having export income. The Government rightly emphasises the potential of the export industry, but its own range of means only includes domestic work and mandatory legislation on employees which is not in line with the term here referred to as export promotion or attraction. The issue is that the government wants to introduce mandatory legislation into the labour market in the sector where it is not currently in the legislation. So it is a question of compulsory laws, which term has been used by the press. It is therefore a cold question that we have certain exceptions in collective agreements and employment contract legislation which have enabled organisations to agree differently locally, i.e. through collective agreements. It is important that local agreements and this debate be held in the name of promoting employment, but the Left Alliance has made its own proposal on what local agreements are. It is the backboard of the collective agreement and therefore the discussion through the culture of the agreement. The government's own actions in the sector where something could be done immediately are incomplete. Fairway charges, rail charges, which could immediately contribute to the competitiveness of the export industry and industry, have remained at a very low level. Nor have there been any legislation or initiatives to promote the attractiveness and employment of the domestic market. I would be happy to see that the government could have had the courage, for example, to lower VAT on alcohol in restaurants to the level of food VAT so that much more jobs could be created in the service sector. Tens of thousands of experts have predicted that employment could have been created through this. The government shoots itself in the foot when it advertises top-notch projects. The bioeconomy is at the top of the list. At the same time, the government, for example, cuts a large part of Luke’s research funding — unsustainable and completely blind. At this point, I will try a little harder on my words, because the representatives of the government parties have also been appalled about this, how we can cut the funding for research and development from the central sector, given that there is a strong desire to achieve employment there. I hope that the government will take the opposition out of these projects, which will enable the first foreign worker to be hired, or those who would be the equivalent of the employment money so that the side costs of the salary could be calculated gradually for the employers who employ them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u194	Madam President! Indeed, Finland is still in a triple deficit. We have a negative gross domestic product, a negative current account balance, and then the central government finances are also at a negative level. One might say that something should be done to raise the level of this swamp, while taking into account the question of the employment gap, that the cost of employment for us is, after all, the level of debt we are taking from abroad at the moment. I think the cost of employment is about 5.5 billion and 5.1 is taken...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u197	Mr President! The opposition claims that the government is standing straight when during the previous government term the same group has been searching for their own butts for four years without finding them. It is true that, for several years now, the employment situation has been getting worse and worse. Of course, it is because of this world situation, Russia's sanctions and its competitiveness. Long-term unemployment and youth unemployment in particular seem very worrying. The government has not yet achieved an increase in unemployment and employment problems in six months. The intermediate issue says: "Legislation requires active job search and a number of other obligations for every unemployed person, and the sanctions for their violation are being used diligently – they have been able to double the number of incomeless households in the last decade and have been driven into poverty, especially among young people, who are the strictest in the system." So you admit that in the decade, the number of incomeless households has doubled and poverty has been driven, especially among young people. Why have you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, acted in power in such a way that it has come to what has happened? And you are also surprised that the government is cutting the youth guarantee. Unfortunately, it has not worked very well, especially for people with disabilities, nor has it been helped to help young people in a difficult situation. But there's always been good in it. Reform of the labour market administration is needed. We have a multi-step, confusing and large, expensive organization that exists for itself that does not work. I'm sure a lot of people have heard it said that there's no job at the employment office. The main task of the TE Office should be to carry out the work. It should ensure that the work and the perpetrator meet each other. That is what the reform of the government is about. It is not possible to create artificial jobs on the public side, but rather to have entrepreneurship and exports. Public money cannot sustain such a bubble, it is not sustainable or far-reaching, and we cannot afford it. Of course, the government is now investing about 600 million in infrastructure. Here, for example, the representative of the SDP spoke of mold schools, and it might also be good to fix them in this situation. These tax and climate policy decisions have been a disproportionate burden on Finnish industry and exports, and it is also partly reflected in unemployment figures. Although the direction of change in the economic structure is that jobs are shifting from production to services, industry and exports are still the backbone of the economy. Finland's main export sector, i.e. industrial output, has been smaller than last year and even lower than at the worst time of the financial crisis. Production was as low as 25 % lower in January to May than in the corresponding period of 2008. Yesterday's news of Nanso's situation affects the Nokians and us Pirkanmaa, perhaps Tornio in the future, when the nearly 100-year-old Finnish family company builds a supply chain in Estonia. And quite simply, Nanso's CEO mentioned that Estonia gives us products of the same quality as Nokia's. That is how we lack competitiveness. It has always been important for Finns to support Finnish work and enterprise. Raising the competitiveness of Finnish companies is of paramount importance, and that is the only way we can improve and secure public services and safety nets, and only by improving the cost competitiveness of companies can we maintain and create the jobs needed for companies. Mr President, when I did not receive the floor at the debat, I would like to ask that when there are 98% fewer than ten entrepreneurs in the country, over 200,000, and here they were, in their way, also accused of distributing dividends. The usual entrepreneur today has a responsibility to get a job for the employees, they don't get to take days off or have long weekends. And why is it so bad that if entrepreneurs then distribute a few tons of dividends, if they get any profit? I would also like to ask the left when they are calling for six hours of working time: who will pay for this part over six hours, that is, two hours, or will the employed today be able to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u198	Madam President! The mid-term issue of the opposition concerns employment, as the government has not acted to improve employment. Employment appropriations for business and employment centres ran out in early summer. In Uusimaa, the Ely Centre did not receive start-up funds for companies from the summer to the long autumn, and, most shameful of all, in the case of people with disabilities, the distribution of employment subsidies was discontinued first when the last few funds were prioritised. A minor amending budget for the management of employment in the autumn covered only a fraction of the needs of the whole country. Employment has been treated with less flame than increased unemployment requires. In Espoo, for example, long-term unemployment has increased by 50% a year. Improving the conditions for small businesses is essential for employment. Making reforms that reduce the obligations of small entrepreneurs and red tape: reducing the risk of employment; increasing the probationary period for small enterprises to six months; and supporting the recruitment of the first employee of the sole entrepreneur. The government's labour law package is based on a reduction in people's salaries and spanking people to work sick when the first day of sickness is unpaid. You shouldn't come to work when you're sick. What if those who do care and care come to work sick to infect others? A lot of low-paid people have families to support. They're going to have to wonder if there's enough money to lose a day's pay for the little flu. It is also not right for a small entrepreneur to pay the costs of being sick. It would be fairer to develop a common financing solution, which will be funded by all employers and employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u201	Madam President! I've been in contact with a long-term unemployed person in the choir. Here I am quoting his message: "Hello, Matti! It is difficult to write briefly about a long matter. So I'm 59 years old. I've been unemployed for 11 years. During that time, I took a course in six professions. They only gave me two months to try out a telemarketer's job. I've sent 77 applications for a job, seven times I got into interviews, didn't mind, I guess I was too old. I have been at the Kuopio City Workshops for six months on contracts for a couple of years, then they also stopped. It was a wild experience: when I was working, I was able to spend nine euros on coffers. I'm still fantasizing about being a chauffeur. What bothers me most is the ignorance that is visible and heard far from that Parliament. Some of the speeches are offensive: I am not lazy. Sometimes I get depressed, but I win it. However, more and more I ask whether I am human. Thank you, Matti, for letting me take my heart out. Pentti Pennanen, eager for work." Mr President! There are certainly thousands of such cases of unemployed job seekers, and unfortunately they are on the increase. According to the Minister for Employment and the Economy, at the end of October there were 450,000 unemployed job seekers and those in the measure, which is almost 18,000 more than one year earlier. I am particularly concerned about the increase in the share of long-term unemployment. According to Statistics Finland, at the end of October, there were over 113,000 long-term unemployed persons who were continuously unemployed over a year, which is nearly 20,000 more than one year earlier. The longer unemployment continues, the more difficult employment in general will be. It is precisely at a time of severe unemployment when the private sector is unable to employ, that society, both the state and the municipalities, must be concerned about creating employment opportunities. Municipalities are well placed to employ the long-term unemployed by using state employment subsidies. Similarly, the third sector and municipalities also have good employment targets because their service area is diverse. They have opportunities to offer motivated jobs to employed people, to work together with professionals in their field, and at the same time they are allowed to work together. Indeed, a job supported by employment is a temporary means of ending unemployment, but it can help to maintain working conditions, skills and skills. This may even result in the employed person finding a new occupation and seeking the corresponding training. Employment management has become a joint project between municipalities and the state — I think it should at least be so — where the state gives part of the cost of employment to municipalities, the municipalities put the rest of the money in place and offer a job to the unemployed, thereby giving the unemployed a decent opportunity to acquire work-earned social security. During this period of high unemployment and recession, employment with employment appropriations is the best sparring tool for maintaining the job-rich and professional skills of the unemployed. I think this model is a good one, and it needs more, substantially, employment funds from the government because of this serious unemployment. It should also be borne in mind that municipalities do not have too many private services to offer good jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u202	Mr President! The Finnish economy, like the whole of Europe, has been in trouble for several years. However, when looking at the overall picture of all EU countries, you can see that the overall economy of the region has been on a small scale for the last two years. Many former crisis countries have achieved a better balance in public finances and at the same time their need to tighten their fiscal policies has decreased. The situation in Finland has not been reversed in the last few years of the parliamentary term and the situation has not been improved; unemployment has increased and the outlook is weaker than in other euro area economies. Employment is about the ability of companies to employ people. The dismantling of standards that make employment more difficult and making the labour market more flexible will enable companies to operate more competitively in both their home and international markets. In this way, the number of jobs in Finland can also turn to growth. For example, by using local agreement, the company would be able to equalise its production according to orders, so that work could be better adjusted according to the market situation and layoffs and layoffs could be avoided. A great deal of hope can rightly be given to increasing local reconciliation. It is now only allowed between the organised social partners within the framework of collective agreements. In the future, it would be appropriate to extend the possibility of local agreement to non-organised employers by means of legislation. The government cannot directly create new jobs. The role of government and policy in general is to create conditions favourable to entrepreneurship and employment in the country. The creation of these conditions will also be influenced by the labour market situation in other countries, which will determine what companies are concentrating their activities on. Now we are creating these conditions for Finnish companies and, at the same time, for workers when the labour market has to change with the rest of the world. The same applies to training which produces labour for companies. Training reforms will increase the ability of enterprises to contribute to the content and development of education and training, thereby increasing the skills required for young people entering the labour market in practice. The transition of a young person thus completed into a productive worker will take place more flexibly and quickly. Mr President! In this situation, social changes need to be made to make entrepreneurship and, therefore, Finnish work worthwhile. The success of the company is also in the interests of the employee. The development of the Finnish economy is also linked to the economies of other countries. We need to change our labour market in order to make our companies more competitive and productive, thereby also increasing employment. We need to get our country back on the road to growth. This can only be achieved by determined development of our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u203	Madam President! At the end of September, the employment and economic development offices had 450,000 job seekers. So the amount is huge. I constantly hear about people who do not have a job or have too few jobs, and so Finns would like to work, but there are only too few jobs. When the country’s economic growth collapses, it is easy to create a vicious circle that feeds itself. First, companies start to reduce the workforce when the prospects are poor. After that, employees start saving when their own jobs are not secure. After that, companies will find that consumers do not buy services and products, and then reduce the workforce. Such a vicious circle may take quite a long time, but in fact it can be broken. It would require bold action by the state to maintain the confidence of businesses and consumers. It would therefore mean that investments would start in Finland, which, however, should be made at some point in the future. Indeed, investment means that people have at least a moment's work and businesses have a market. So now would be a good time for greening the economy and business. For example, we are well aware that our energy sector still needs to make major investments, that climate change can be combated. It's time for them. We also know very well that future traffic is on the rails. Now would be a good time to make trams, for example. Now would also be a good time to look for new solutions by training people and exploring new ones. Instead of increasing the attractiveness of investments, the Finnish Government is cutting too much. The most devastating examples are government cuts to universities and universities of applied sciences. Now that people would have time to study and study, Finnish universities are having unprecedented negotiations on cooperation. Seeds for future growth will not now be sown. In addition to general economic policy, there are also direct measures to assist employment. Now both the youth guarantee and the services related to the management of unemployment are being cut in Finland. Now that the economic situation is poor, it is important for more people to be able to do small jobs from time to time, even from time to time. More and more people are self-employed. At the same time, however, the government suggests that all those who do not have an employment relationship should be interpreted as entrepreneurs in the future. The proposed change makes those people who have previously been considered to be employed in their own work main or secondary activities. Their chances of receiving unemployment benefit are becoming more difficult, i.e. more rigid rather than more flexible. I have to say to the end that the government's policy is unfortunately not going to reduce unemployment sufficiently. It is a good thing that Parliament is already discussing this now that the Government's lines are still on paper to a significant extent. So jobs can still be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u204	Madam President! Mr Yanar raised the issue of unemployment, and yes, it is one of the most serious problems at the moment. However, he said that now would be a good time to act. I ask why the previous governments did not act, because the economy of this country has been stalling for a very long time, seven years in a state of clotting. What was your decision and your action when you were in government to influence these matters? Yes, the situation is that it is currently the Sipilä government that corrects the mistakes of previous governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u205	Secondly, Mr Yanar, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u206	Madam President! The Sipilä government, of course, waxed and then slobbered, and let's see what kind of results that will produce. But the biggest problem with this government's economic policy is that action is being taken without any impact assessment by really bad manufacturing and then cut too much, which eats up the conditions on the domestic market and then cuts our future as well. There are many points here, and you would think that the government, after months of discussion, would take these matters seriously, but apparently the line is still to refer to previous governments, and you often hear that the opposition has no alternative. The alternative budgets were left a few weeks ago. You might want to get to know them and perhaps have a bit of a genuine look at them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u207	Mr President! We must remember how serious the problem is. In particular, long-term unemployment is a tragedy for the individual, and it is also a tragedy for families, communities and society as a whole. It is also a huge economic problem. If employment were in order, it would also remedy the problems of public finances to a very large extent. Unemployment is the biggest problem in Finland. To be honest, it must of course be said that the current unemployment situation is not the fault of the current government, but it is now assessing the actions and activities and the policy line that the current government intends to address this extremely serious problem. And I regret to say that the government's employment policy does not convince me. The target of over 100,000 new jobs rests largely on the employment benefits that may be gained through forced laws through employment conditions and wage cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u212	Madam President! I will correct one argument at the outset. This is where Mr Myllykoski accused the current government of the cuts at the Natural Resources Centre for Bioeconomy Research. These cuts, Mrs Myllykoski, although you are not present, are the cancellation of the previous government. It would be kind of nice to remember things the way they are. It is now being implemented, and this government has not yet done anything in this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u215	Madam President! Again, the opposition has raised an issue of importance, as have previous interim issues. But it cannot be avoided during this autumn that the issue of the interim as the strongest weapon of the opposition has experienced inflation, and they have been cultivated frequently. Again this morning there were two interlocutors of the Left Alliance waiting for an answer. Over the past autumn, there has been a great deal of debate on the issue of why not from other television-enabled plenary sessions, the public's feedback on our behaviour. I have wondered whether it is because this temporary state, the physical state, imposes certain restrictions and TV creates the impression that there is an unruly class here. But I dare say there are other reasons. The opposition's behavior has been very aggressive. As we have heard today about conspiracies and the fact that the government, both consciously and programically, is harassing the public, has been shot with a hectare gun. The early years of representative democracy, the municipal councils during the first republic between world wars, inevitably come to mind. Of course, a lot of this is part of the very nature of parliamentary democracy and can be played, played with contra-factuals, if you say: if the Social Democrats were in the government now, how passionately the Social Democrats would now defend the solutions of the government, and if the present government parties were in the opposition, how much more or less the same kind of questions would be asked through intermediate issues. This is the spirit of the game, it is an integral part of parliamentary democracy. But we can also rightly talk about the crisis of democracy not only in Finland, but also in the wider context of the crisis of democracy, on the one hand, and the lack of advice on the other, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the major, difficult issues facing all humanity at the moment, on the other hand, on which we cannot find simple, easy and unambiguous answers. It is quite right that a constructive spirit rather than a confrontation should be called for in the face of major issues that must be bravely faced, knowing their complexity. We do not just need a spirit of understanding in this house, in this Chamber or in the trio between interest groups and so on, but more generally a willingness to listen to one another, to understand and to learn from one another. In this extended area, we would need greater appreciation and listening to both culture and science, as well as public opinion. We are indeed faced with serious questions. Today, when we are in this situation right now in the Finnish political reality today, we are under the budget that was prepared last year under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Finance. But that is the real policy. Real policy must be remembered, as must the great questions of humanity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u216	Madam President! We Finns have built a civilized and prosperous society with our own work. However, the employment situation and the economy have not increased since the financial crisis in 2008. The chain of command at the top has grown public administration and labour market organisations so chubby that the Finnish working in the same state will no longer fit. Now the government is seeking to increase the number of employed Finns by 100,000 and the employment rate to 72 per cent. Employment policy is in the right direction. Representatives of the Left, the SDP and the Greens criticised the government for the fact that the vision of a long-term employment policy is significantly different from that of Finland. It's about time. Unemployment has long been treated with unemployment benefits, although it only improves with work. I do not understand why the opposition is concerned about the government's ability to manage the employment situation in Finland. Paavo Arhinmäki and others themselves point out in their intermission that the government has made a number of openings rather than the usual first aid measures. Madam President! The first aid measures have been extended for too long. Recovery saves lives, but it does not create new jobs. Living as a debt will stop by making it easier for entrepreneurs to hire employees and giving them the opportunity to agree on local terms and conditions of employment, such as pay and working time. Every attempt is different. It can no longer be that everyone is assigned one size pantyhose from above. Every entrepreneur wants to take care of their employees. Sometimes you have to cut back on expenses, sometimes the company's not doing well. When the business is doing well, the entrepreneur wants to reward his employees and take care of his employees. I believe that employees should be involved in decision-making bodies. Entrepreneurs have long wanted to increase employment, and entrepreneurs are the only ones who, together with workers, can increase employment. In other words, power is transferred to employers and workers, who themselves know best how work is done so that it is profitable. The local agreement brings productivity, flexibility and efficiency to the workplace. It will create more work that will also be able to cope with international competition. Without saving its own image, the government has taken measures to increase employment and Finland's competitiveness, the work that would have been necessary in the past two governments, while you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, the SDP and the Greens, were sitting there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u217	Mr President! The central objective of the government is to eliminate structural unemployment. In view of the difficult economic situation, this takes time and requires a number of measures which appear to be heavy and unfair. Short-term reforms and superficial initiatives are no longer enough to reduce unemployment. A key instrument for reducing unemployment is the social pact. The social pact is widely supported throughout the country. There is also broad support within the trade union — even the ACP members have supported it. It is therefore a great pity that no agreement has been reached so far, at least. In practice, a few people keep the whole country in an unsustainable situation. Something positive is happening in the employment market. This is a good thing to keep in mind. For example, from my own region, Vakka-Suomi has recently heard positive news about economic growth and employment growth. However, serious damage would be caused if even small growth shoots were to be destroyed by divisiveness in the conclusion of the agreement. Or if the strike wave came, it would be the final rivet. The workers most affected by this situation, especially those seeking employment. After the agreement has failed, the government is planning a competitiveness package. The government does not want to be unfair to the workers, but only to improve employment prospects for the whole population. However, there is still time to agree and avoid legislative action. A social pact would be the most sensible solution for all. Mr President! The failure of the social pact has also highlighted the fact that the tripartite agreement is an outdated way of agreeing. It has never really worked in Finland in the Euro Ages. The government is planning to replace the local agreement, which is in the interests of both employers and employees. And as we heard yesterday on the news, local agreements are being prepared with the government and the social partners. It will be an agreement between the employer and employees, not a dictation of the employer. The Finns of Peru also remain firmly on the side of the work force. Duunari's wishes are carefully listened to in the local arrangement. But it's just as obvious that a company has to pay off. There can be no lossful action. The importance of education and its reform in the labour market is emphasised in the government's key projects. In the past, we have seen that the high level of education in our country has not been reflected in the emergence of new innovations and growth in employment. This is why it should be noted that the Government's key projects aim to promote cooperation between universities and industry in order to make the commercialisation of innovations more efficient. The objective is a good one and, if successful, it may lead to a significant increase in employment and exports. The opposition should remember that the government's work to increase employment is only just beginning. The subject of the interim issue is of super importance: employment policy. However, the intermediate issue focuses on too small details and shortcomings, and it has also been done very early in thinking about the Government's programme of measures. This is a major and time-consuming reform. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u218	Madam President! The unemployment rate in Finland has long been at a high level, and there is no prospect of a better turnaround. The number of unemployed job seekers will continue to increase and unemployment periods will increase. As we know, the likelihood of employment is also reduced as unemployment is prolonged. It is precisely in this situation that a wide range of measures should be taken by the government in support of employment and employment. Unfortunately, the opposite is happening. Government measures consist mainly of a series of summary and urgent savings whose impact is unknown to no one, as well as a package of coercive laws designed to reduce wages and employers' costs. The impact of these measures on employment is based on pure wishful thinking and, according to the latest estimates, they have already been greatly exaggerated. While trying to reduce domestic demand, the government is cutting education and research sharply, i.e. knowledge of the future. In this way, opportunities will be taken from the success of both Finns and Finland as a whole in the future. Unemployment among young people is of particular concern. The longer the situation persists, the more young people enter the labour market who cannot get away with work. It is precisely at the time when we should have the most valuable work experience for the future career that society does not have to offer these young people a place or a way of getting involved in working life. The Youth Guarantee launched during the last parliamentary term has received a lot of criticism because youth unemployment has also increased. Indeed, a magic trick has not been invented to isolate young people from the effects of the economic crisis in Finland and in Europe as a whole. However, it is thanks to the Youth Guarantee that it has been possible to keep the unemployment periods of young people reasonably short. Finland has the lowest long-term unemployment rate among young people in all EU countries. Most importantly, the Youth Guarantee has prevented the exclusion of young people. They have been offered various jobs, training and traineeships to keep them involved in society’s various activities, perhaps also given them time to build their future on. It is irresponsible of the government to withdraw almost all funding for the Youth Guarantee in this situation. In addition to the Youth Guarantee, the government is also drawing the foundation from the young work in search. Searching youth work reached nearly 25,000 young people last year. We are talking about young people who have fallen completely outside the labour force and education. Bringing these young people back to support and services is really important in humane terms, and it also reduces the cost of society. Reducing funding will reduce the scope and scope of outreach youth work in Finland. Mr President! In their alternative budget, the Social Democrats have proposed a return of EUR 28 million to the continuation of the Youth Guarantee and an investment of EUR 3 million in the search for work. In addition, the SDP proposes a number of ways of improving employment and promoting exports without putting the domestic market under pressure. Among other things, the SDP has proposed to convert passive unemployment benefit into an active employment voucher. The employment voucher would be around EUR 700 and would last for a maximum of 300 days. At the same time, the banknote would activate the unemployed to find a job and reduce the employer's threshold for hiring an unemployed person. The SDP has also proposed that the state could encourage municipalities to invest in renovation of mould buildings, such as schools, kindergartens. This would create new jobs, reduce the debt to repair and, in the long term, reduce the cost of diseases caused by poor indoor air. We would also encourage investment in transport projects and housing. On the other hand, it is proposed to introduce an experiment on the Social Democrats' entrepreneurial package to encourage self-employed workers to be employed by means of a special reduction in employment. Mr President! It is worrying that the government prefers to hang itself in coercive laws rather than to seek to develop reforms such as those mentioned above in order to improve the employment situation. The laws have only just been consulted, but they have already done a lot of damage. They will stimulate the social partners
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u219	Mr President! In spring 2011, it was reported how the interest rate on the 10-year loan in Greece rose to just over 13%, i.e. the record peak of the euro area. The interest rate on the Greek 2-year loan would be as high as 17.5%. At the same time, Germany’s ten-year loan had an interest rate of 3.4%. This illustrates how different economic realities are facing countries that are well and poorly managing their economies. In July 2015, Paavo Arhinmäki, the first signatory of the mid-term issue, protested against the government's approved policy in the Greek aid negotiations because he considered it too harsh. The conscious and decisive government of Finland’s realities strives to avoid Greece’s fate and to keep our country’s debt under control. Mr President! It is not possible to save Finland from unhappy financial discipline without pain. Of course, this is also reflected in the comments made by the left-wing opposition on the current economic situation in Finland. The government’s target of 72% of the employment rate is therefore not achievable in the short term. That is how much the previous governments, including the Greens and the Left, have done. A positive change therefore requires long-term work. Only major structural reforms can stop Finland’s indebtedness and ultimately secure the creation of jobs in the country. The Government’s objective is therefore to safeguard Finland’s attractiveness as an investment destination, because if we cannot reverse the trend, we will have a destiny like Greece, whose unemployment rate was around 25 per cent in August of this year. Mr Arhinmäki said that the electricity bill had to be paid, that food had to be bought. Well, that is, of course, the case, but it is also worth mirroring a little of what Mr Arhinmäki himself did in the previous government. After all, the previous government raised the standard value added tax by one per cent, the value added tax on food by one per cent and the value added tax on medicines and magazines by one per cent. Similarly, the energy tax was increased. In 2011, when the then government of Katainen began, the declared aim was to end debt in the coming government period — a key objective. But during the finance ministers Urplainen and Rinne, central government debt increased from 79 billion to 95 billion. Of course, political memory is often short, but for the left-wing opposition it seems to be exceptionally short. Mr President! In July, when President Arhinmäki announced his response to the government's Greek aid policy, he said that Greece had no chance of reducing its unemployment and of achieving economic growth. Mr Arhinmäki, you are faced with all the ideals of monetary policy in the euro area — the same euro area to which Mr Ville Niinistö or Mr Antti Rinne have committed themselves. The alternative to the Youth Guarantee, social security and savings measures in other sectors would be a euro differential that would restore Finland's monetary independence and the associated means of economic recovery. According to the economist, Bill Mitchell, interviewed by the People’s News, his own currency manages the problems of competitiveness through exchange rate changes as necessary. As a member of the euro area, Finland has chosen the path of internal devaluation, which is due to our economy’s adjustment poles to the competitiveness requirements of the euro area. It is a difficult and difficult path, but the government is determined to push it forward for the future of our country and thus to improve the employment situation. One of the things you would think a left-wing opposition would be good for is the decision to carry out a basic income experiment, although it must be said that the international media have misinterpreted the matter. It is not a question of giving ten tonnes a year in Finland as a basic income; it is an experiment, an experimental culture in which the government wants to see whether there is a card here that can be used in the future. If so, use it. If not, let's try something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u220	Mr President! The main goal of the government must be to reverse the growth of the Finnish economy and to see that rise as an increase in employment, as an improvement in the living and living conditions of ordinary people. This is an important objective that the opposition is calling for with the interim issue that has now been raised. There is no doubt that the matter will continue to be before the government if the government is supported by Parliament this time. Economic growth and employment are the key to the success and survival of Finnish society. If they are solved, many other questions will be solved. The development of public finances will take place on a sustainable path and the people who expect the pension they earn will be safe from living. Young people's faith in the future is restored. The concerns raised by sudden and unexpected immigration will also be made easier if there is enough work for both us who live here and those who move here. Mr President! The Government of Prime Minister Sipilä has clearly decided to resign, to change the policy pursued in this country. Instead of working together on the labour market, there has been a confrontation. Instead of large-scale contracts, intimidation has been imposed. Instead of safeguarding the resources of education and employment, disciplinary measures against the unemployed have been introduced. The government has wanted to get rid of the former and shake society, and shakes up the feeling, the old structures are loose from their joints. So far, however, the government has succeeded only in this old tearing, not in the construction of a new one. In the absence of a centralised solution, with the model presented by employees' organisations, to stand in the way of zero increases, there is a union round ahead. On average, it does not produce a zero line, as not every sector of wage increases can be compensated for by wage cuts in other sectors. The government's ambition to jump in cost-competitiveness remains undone. When the second round of alliances follows, there is also no pay contract model based on the competitiveness of export industries. There will also be confrontation in the long term. Mr President! Finland survived the recession of the 1990s with a wise policy. It was no good luck that the technology industry grew up in the country. This was strongly influenced by the fact that, even in the midst of severe austerity measures, public authorities invested in research and product development, investing in knowledge. It was also not a matter of luck that there was agreement and cooperation in the labour market. A good policy also involves a bold investment in employment. The employment subsidies made many families get over the worst. Employment subsidies signalled that the government would not forget the long-term unemployed either. These subsidies, in particular, sustained the future of northern Finland, and the growth of the Oulu region was built on this faith, for example. Mr President! The main content of the intermediate question is concern about work and livelihood. It is also worth raising concerns about equality in the labour market. For generations, this country has been working hard for equality. Although much remains to be done, much has also been achieved. Now these achievements are also being put at risk. This government is the first in a time that does not set goals for equality work. This is a government which seems to be aimed at dismantling equality between women and men. The backstory of equality is a staunch and good characterisation of the intermediate issue. Mr President! Within a few months, the government has learned a lot about the economy and politics. I wish this lesson could get through to you now. I wish the government would correct the course of its economic policy. If it were to safeguard the supply of labour by maintaining the right to early childhood education, i.e. the subjective right of day care, and by taking active action to keep the long-term unemployed on the labour market. If only the government would secure the demand for labour by ensuring that the cost competitiveness of export industries is maintained and improved. If only it would secure the demand for labour by curbing the interest in cutting. Mr President! If the government does not learn from its experience or change its policy, then it is time for it to move away.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u221	Madam President! A few comments on this debate. I myself was not here in Parliament — away for nine years — but if I look at the last parliamentary term in particular, it was a time of indecision that went a long way, and then the decisions were not implemented. The pension reform was carried out, but it was actually the only one. Otherwise, there was a time of inaction. Taxes were raised and, of course, it has a negative impact on this situation, among other things, by tightening labour taxation. When the SDP proposes a shadow budget, we now have four SDP budgets behind us. Now we're living in the time of the Rinne budget. I have looked at the shadow budget of the SDP and I am not convinced of it. I can deal with it — not in the rest — when I am a member of Sitra’s Board of Directors, and it is an organisation that is specifically building Finland’s future. If half of its capital is taken away, then of course its operations will be halved, and now this is how Sitra’s activities have been raised to the edge of the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence, will be damaged by Sitra’s activities, and I am sorry about that. President! When I came here to this Parliament, what has really upset me most about these parties is this Green Party. It's become a debt party. I am not talking about Linkola's time, I am talking about Soininvaara's time, but about sustainable development. President! My real point is that we have to understand which world we are living in at the moment. We are living in constant global structural change, which is accelerating. We live in a time of digitalisation, robotics, automation, which also eats jobs if one day it also gives opportunities. Above all, we are living in a single currency run by Germany. Mr Ihalainen has already mentioned this on your page: Finland was talking about preparedness at the time, but when we look afterwards, Sweden too has been better able to live under the conditions of the single currency, even though it is not there, it is only under the conditions of the single currency. The euro is currently in serious difficulties. The European Central Bank is shoveling money into the market, the interest rates are really low. It is a question of giving the Member States time to adapt, to carry out structural reforms. Unfortunately, for example, the large countries, France, Italy, have not done so, and this brings risks to the euro area as a whole. Some countries have done so: Latvia, including Spain, Ireland, forced by the crisis. At the moment, all of these things are going well. I think the government has a very good strategic programme, that is what we need. One of the reforms is this local agreement which we would like to see succeeding now, because companies are in a different situation. Companies and employees themselves know the situation better. For example, working time banking, which could adapt to the situation, does a little more work when there are jobs, and less when there are no, is not really possible in our core collective agreements either. There's a rumor that the Metal Treaty allows for a local settlement. It does not do it in the main, but it is 700 pages long, but it does not sufficiently guarantee the possibility of local reconciliation. Mr President! Finally, the worst of economic deficits is the lack of confidence. I believe that the government's actions, including these laws on competitiveness, will create the confidence in the Finnish economy that someone is doing something, that we are making decisions for entrepreneurship, employment. This will enable companies to invest, people to build homes and jobs. As long as we do not reform and are in a state of inaction, Finland will not regain confidence. Market forces cannot be deceived in such a way that reforms are made by talking. Finland’s problems cannot be solved by talking
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u222	Madam President! I had to reply to Mr Ala-Nissila when the Greens were mentioned. It is understandable that the government is now trying to discredit the Greens, but the Greens are equally fighting the sustainability gap. The green option is to break the debt but, of course, do it differently. How do we stand out from the government: we would not cut as much as the domestic market would not suffer. This is a really big gap in government mentality. We do not cut off low incomes; we do not cut off education, research, which is our future. A little focus like this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u223	Madam President! Indeed, the Greens were in the previous government — although they were not yet there — in making these decisions, but in the government of not doing so, when there were hardly any reforms. Now that I listen to what President Niinistö has said and also to you, Mr Niinistö, and I look at the shadow budget of the Greens, which, among other things, did not take into account the local economy at all, you are in favour of living beyond the money. You are no longer in favour of sustainable development, and I am sure that many of the Greens are also disappointed that their party no longer supports sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u224	One more reply, Mr Yanar. Then on the list of speakers, Mr Mölsä, but now Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u225	Madam President! I would also like to say that, as I have just said to Mr Kärnä, we are being hit again on the basis of the actions of previous governments. As has been said, we are seeking to improve the economy and, in a way, spin the wheels of the economy, and thus, in economic terms, a more sustainable alternative than that of the government. As has been said, we have equal concerns about the sustainability gap and we are also seeking to break down debt, but the means are different. The means are such that the income gap does not increase, that we invest in the future, and that we have a brighter future than the government plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u226	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u227	Madam President! With this intermediate issue, the state of employment and the economy in our country will not be corrected. The outlook for the economy of the euro area, which is important for Finland's economy, has not improved. The problems of emerging economies have been exacerbated by a strong fall in the prices of raw materials. As a result, the economies of countries, particularly those dependent on the export industry, are in poor shape. Investment has not started, and the lack of new investment has taken everyone by surprise. Uncertainty about the development of the economy has proved to be so great that companies simply do not dare to make large amounts of new investment. All of this is directly reflected in Finland’s economy and its growth. Growth in Finland's gross domestic product seems to remain at zero this year. The problems of cost competitiveness and the subdued demand for investment goods in the global market keep export growth slow. There will be no support for economic growth on the domestic market. Indeed, Finland's GDP growth is likely to remain well below one per cent in 2016. This modest development further underlines the need to reform the functioning of the Finnish labour market. The reform of the labour market requires rapid measures to promote competitiveness, wage moderation, increased local reconciliation and other long-term changes, such as the dismantling of incentives traps. These should build an overall package with a long-term objective of sustainable competitiveness and a high employment rate. The Government Programme also promises to implement entrepreneurship reduction and the possibility for small businesses to pay VAT only after the money has entered the cash register. Entrepreneurship reduction should be applicable from the beginning of 2017, which seems likely at the moment. The transition to payment-based VAT should also take place at the latest. There have already been corrections. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has approved a change in the opening hours of retail trade, barbers and hairdressers. A small positive correction is also a Government proposal to amend the Accounting Act. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the government's proposal takes particular account of small and micro-enterprises and seeks to reduce their administrative burden within the limits of EU regulation. This report was finalised yesterday, 8 December. The changes are bringing a number of flexibility elements to small and micro-enterprises, including the obligation to prepare the financial statements for the exemption of traders and professionals, the waiver of the paper balance sheet, changes in the presentation of the capital loan in the balance sheet and a separate regulation on the disclosure of the financial statements of small and micro-enterprises. At the same time, when the interest rates of small and micro-enterprises have been raised, the majority of the Finnish enterprise stock is covered by these reductions. Here are a few corrections that have already been made and implemented. Government action is heading in the right direction and is gradually turning towards growth. It would now also be important for the future of the opposition to start building Finland with the right means.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u228	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The government's employment policy has been rather weak from the outset. At every turn, it has revealed incompetence and even poor knowledge of the Finnish labour market. The beginning of the government has also been marked by an enormous rush. Decisions have been sought quickly. Against that background, it is strange to note that, in employment policy, there seems to be little urgency for the government to achieve anything concrete. The government's inaction in employment policy is somewhat confusing, and this kind of feedback has come from the field rather than from this opposition. It trusts without blurring on this coercive package, the effects of which would not be visible until 2017. I would like to say, Madam Government, that we need work here and now. The compulsory law package states that cuts will reduce employment first because of the domestic market and the benefits will only come when the impact on exports is visible. I personally feel that unemployment figures require genuine actions in this time period, now and now. Forced laws have also blocked collective bargaining and prevented the creation of a social contract. A social pact would have been available at the time, but the government's policy of coercive action drew the carpet from the negotiators at once. That's practically how it worked out, isn't it? Times, negotiators and governments have changed a lot. Respect for those who match the previous knees will grow even more in view of this so-called vatulphating. Madam President! It is worrying to see how the government undermines the welfare state and cuts benefits. This is how citizens' purchasing power will be weakened. This in turn means a deterioration in the employment situation. With this government's disbanding and ruling policy, this period is in the process of flying to scrap heaps, including a tripartite agreement and a rotational leave system. The Youth Guarantee is significantly weakened. Education cuts will affect decades ahead. It is incomprehensible that, at a time when unemployment is rising, employment appropriations are being drastically cut. At the same time, a significant qualitative change is taking place in the employment service, in which the most favourable, wage-based employment for the unemployed has decreased. On the other hand, more and more unemployed people are being obliged to take unremunerated measures in many ways. The government's way of talking about unemployment is strongly incriminating the unemployed. This feedback has also come from the field rather than from the opposition, from the field where the unemployed are in different situations in life. In a situation where there is no work, it is disproportionate to blame these unemployed people. Now we should get to work and create pathways back to work through difficult times. We are moving towards longer periods of unemployment, and exclusion is increasing. The difficulty factor of the challenge is growing quite rapidly. Mr President! In terms of the conditions of our success, work and competitiveness have recently been mentioned. The other side of the coin is that Finland’s success is ultimately made by healthy, educated and capable workers and entrepreneurs. Therefore, in periods of high unemployment, it is wise to invest in education, work capacity and other mechanisms to prevent exclusion. Mr President! During this autumn it has become quite clear that the government's proposals on working life are very ideological, even though they are officially done for the best in Finland. There are a number of issues in mind: how does the inclusion of unemployed people improve employment? How does the fact that a significant part of holiday money is being taken away create the domestic purchasing power that we desperately need? How is the fact that the culture of the treaty is thrown into a scrap heap suitable for a time when moderate wage solutions are needed? In some ways, my government, I am afraid of what is yet to come. I would also like to remind you when it comes to local agreement and its possible addition: we have a number of TES which make it possible to make dozens of things that can already be agreed locally. The problem is, in part, they don't know how to use them. I am tempted to ask the government when it seems that you have a strong desire to manage working life legislation alone in the future: when will a working group be set up to train employers in the existing ways of local reconciliation? The tripartite working group, which has now been set up to push the local agreement forward and which has been given three months, is not real in that sense, but partly cosmetic. In that time, no good legislation will be made. It has already come up this week, and you would think that the government has enough examples of this poor and hasty legislation from this past parliamentary term. I believe that Finland now needs cooperation, trust, and most of all it needs work. And in all of these, this house has a very important role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u229	Mr President! Mr Taimela spoke on the issue of employment. He also mentioned that the government blames the unemployed. He himself, in this speech, did most of the blame on the government for this situation. Of course, the social partners also have their own responsibilities. They are supported by triple tax aid, including strike grants, and they have a role to play. The government has tried to build a social pact five times, and we are still prepared to do so. Now we should all focus on the fact that, in this situation, we could agree on a solution that would support Finnish competitiveness, productivity and moderation and maintain and bring about jobs. I would also like to ask Mr Taimela, when you know how difficult the situation is in Salo: not by blaming the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u230	Mr President! Finland needs to be reformed, and it is best done through cooperation and agreement among all. Finland has always been able to move ahead in the past, precisely through cooperation and mutual agreement, and hopefully this will also be the case in the future. Our nearly 100-year-old Finland has changed a great deal over the years, and our labour market, jobs and the needs of the business community have also changed considerably. There is far too much unemployment in our country, and that is why decision-making must always take account of its impact on employment. Improving employment requires improving the competitiveness of Finland, and therefore the structures also need to be reformed. We need to get our business into a growth path. It is extremely regrettable that the social partners have not achieved a social pact. Indeed, it would be in the interests of all Finns and the whole of Finland that that agreement should indeed be concluded. I sincerely hope that the organisations will return to the joint table and come to a good conclusion. What we need now and in the future is real wage moderation and local reconciliation in the workplace. Similarly, the bureaucracy of employment must be dismantled. Mr President! Small and medium-sized enterprises will be the backbone of the economy and employment in the future. Young people and the long-term unemployed need easier access to jobs and jobs. Of course, we must not forget our basic Finnish industry, our foundation, but we must also ensure that it operates in the future. There may also be a lot of new jobs in the bioeconomy in the future, and the government's key projects in this area play a very important role and must be pursued with determination. The world is changing, for example, in terms of job opportunities and job structures, and in this change Finland must also be involved. We need more growth companies and companies that invest in exports in our country. The high unemployment rate among Finns has not come unexpectedly, but has increased over several years. The fact is that, for example, during the last parliamentary term, unemployment increased considerably, and even then more measures should have been taken to improve employment. The current government has set a target of raising the employment rate to 72%. This is a challenging objective and requires a number of actions and actions that will also be implemented. Parliament or government do not set up jobs themselves, but our joint task is to create conditions for companies to be employed. We also need to dismantle the incentives traps by reforming unemployment security so that it encourages people to take up work. The Government has already decided to reform the earnings-related daily allowance, and preparation for the basic income test has also been started. I hope that in the future we will try to transfer the services of people who are difficult to employ, with their money, to municipalities or even to regional self-government regions. At least in South Karelia, we're ready for this kind of experiment. The fact that we are all concerned here in Parliament about excessively high unemployment figures is a good thing. Improving employment should therefore be our common concern. All decision-making must therefore be directed towards creating more jobs in Finland, because today, unemployment expenditure in Finland amounts to around EUR 5 billion a year, or almost the same amount as we still have to take out debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u231	Madam President! Work is one of the basics of a balanced life. Before I got a job in Parliament, I worked as a business coordinator and helped people find employment. Very, very, very few people really want to be unemployed. In my work, I was allowed to be both a Kela office and a social welfare office, a helper psychologist and a job broker. It was very enlightening. And it is not always by choice that you become unemployed. Situations can be very difficult, but it is always worth believing that it is not worth giving up and there is always demand for good workers. It's just that people have to keep up with their own briskness. But the general situation is, of course, terribly difficult, and that is why, in the government programme, the major objectives are, of course, to increase the employment rate. Raising employment and turning unemployment down are one of the most important objectives, as has been said many times here. And, yes, our society can only be better off if we get new jobs. This will allow us to improve the state of public finances and preserve the welfare society. It is regrettable that employment appropriations are being cut. It comes as no surprise to anyone when they save. But not just state aid is employed, but, above all, it is employed by taking off exports and facilitating the situation of companies, by reducing the risk of hiring an employee and by making us an attractive investment environment. It's not like they don't hire a company that's worth a lot of money. The SDP's employment bill is one kind of aid to employment and I am sure it can work in some cases, and I am sincerely pleased that today's debate on the mid-term issue also contained constructive features. Kainuu Paltamo had a long-term employment experiment, and it collected praises. Unfortunately, though it did not last much to create permanent jobs, it has played a major role in society. So, yes, this kind of work experiment is worth taking very seriously. Well, the labour market situation. It is, of course, regrettable that once again the social pact has fallen, and the government is really trying. Undoubtedly, it is always in the interests of a small country. However, I am confident that, even in recent days, a somewhat more flexible approach has been heard from the ACP side, if perhaps at some point a social pact should be established. Of course, it is not just the current government that can be blamed for the fact that the unemployment situation is weak. Of course, the burden of inheritance was quite heavy. However, efforts are being made through major projects to improve the situation and, once these export-driven investments have been sought, the government is actually doing very specific things there. And even though it has just been hammered that nothing is going to happen, it is true that the financial opportunities for companies are being improved, that the financing of exports is being increased by increasing Finnvera's powers, that the EU's financial opportunities are being fully exploited through EFSI and that the export and internationalisation of SMEs are being supported. Team Finlandia has been renewed. Introduce the one-stop shop principle and have tried to choose strategic priorities, bioeconomy, cleantech, health technology and digitalisation. And we will also break down the incentives, reform the employment services. The main problem still remains that the rapid reception of work is not always profitable. The basic income experiment has also been started as research work last October. Let us hope that this preparatory work would provide an historic model that would also enable us to transform social security into inclusive and work-friendly through the basic income. The number one task of the Labour Market Administration is, of course, to prevent prolonged unemployment and to provide services right at the beginning of unemployment. We have tried to do new digital services in the service range of the TE Offices, how to dismantle queues and get things moving faster. This concern about unemployment is certainly common, because every party in the government or opposition
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u232	Madam President! The problems of the Finnish economy are due to the fact that exports do not draw and the economy does not grow. Our exports are not diverse. Although there are emerging signs, there is not enough investment. In addition, domestic demand is low. Energy subsidies for export promotion and reductions in fairway charges are here and now measures that give rise to concern about the importance of promoting exports. This is the starting point for labour market policy that the government has forgotten in its actions. The focus should be on growth and employment and not on freezing them, following the freezing of the situation with your hands in your pocket. The government’s objective is correct: the employment rate to 72% and 110,000 new jobs. The concern of the SDP lies in the risks posed by the prolonged unemployment. The activation rate has fallen, the government has already given up a third of the activation rate with its choices. The most worrying is the ideological dismantling of the Youth Guarantee. We now have an ice rover of young people, some 5,500 under 25 years of age more outside active activities than in last year's October. Investments and investments in key projects are modest from the perspective of the goals set by the Government. Key projects are smaller than cuts in active measures to promote employment. It is particularly strange that the Government's policy is to reduce Tekes's and, overall, its investment in knowledge. It is undisputed that Finland’s success has been based on hard knowledge. The impact assessments are a stumbling block for this government. The government has also failed to carry out a statutory gender impact assessment and the binding nature of the Constitution in relation to its employment policy. In addition to its over-the-counter and understating gender equality agenda, the Government has already neglected the gender impact assessment in its presentations on the opening hours of shops, changes to the rotation leave system and in its coercive legislation package. Mr President! In order to combat longterm unemployment, exclusion and the social sustainability gap, the SDP has presented its own options: cancelling the Youth Guarantee,the Rinne Job Model,the Taipalee Model,employment as the responsibility and right of the municipalities,reduction of occupational pension contributions,reductions in cuts in the labour market policies,promoting employment,local authorities’reduction of school and daycare allowances,the housing andtransport policy programme,and an entrepreneur package to mention the EUR20000reduction model for self-employed workers. Has the government woken up to exclusion and prolonged and increased unemployment? No, it's not. The social sustainability gap is growing out of control, especially as periods of unemployment are prolonged. If social cohesion falls apart, the effectiveness of the competitiveness instrument will be lost. For this reason, social exclusion should be addressed through proper investment and not through cuts in the employment budget. Simply, we cannot afford to prolong unemployment or increase exclusion. The government, through its poorly prepared coercive package, has driven the Finnish labour market system into chaos. It has made itself a reality between the social partners without giving them a real chance to seek and build a long-term solution. By forcing the parties into overcrowded schedules, the government has caused more confusion than results. Traditionally, Finland has been able to negotiate for so long that the agreement is closed. It would therefore be justified to give space to real negotiations and to withdraw the ill-prepared and vaguely prepared proposals. The wisdom of the government would be to give the opportunity to a labour market policy that supports employment and growth, especially as there is still more than one year left of the previous broad pact for employment and growth. The government must be reminded that good preparation and impact assessments and cooperation with the social partners have led to major and important issues for Finland, most recently tyka and also a major pension reform — but they involved the SDP. But you do not need to reinvent the wheel, Mr Government, if you would stop trying to get your butt in front of the tree. A wise man learns from his mistakes, learns to listen to all the whispers with an accurate ear. You can listen. You heard the midwives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u233	Mr President! Finland’s economic situation is serious. Gross domestic product has fallen, unemployment is rising and periods of unemployment are prolonged. Employment should be the first thing, but it seems that the government is not taking it seriously here and now. On the contrary, according to many estimates, government action will increase unemployment, and this is the wrong policy. Finland urgently needs new products and services that can be exported to international markets. Finland will never compete only at a price, but will have to invest in new products, especially quality. That is why government cuts to research and innovation funds are short-sighted policies. For example, in the Committee on the Future, we have heard a number of experts who have strongly criticised the government's savings in the fields of education, science, research, development and innovation. Investing in these would be a sensible way for economic growth and job creation. No key projects will help if, for example, the basic funding for research, development and innovation is removed. In addition to supporting job creation, it is essential to ensure that people who have become unemployed, their skills and their ability to work are taken care of. As a result of government measures, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment are likely to continue to increase. This is going to cost society a lot of money in the long run. The SDP has argued that responsibility for long-term unemployment must be transferred to municipalities. For example, the experience of the Danish model is that the services of the long-term unemployed can only be organised efficiently if the responsibility has been transferred to the municipalities as a whole. This will ensure a link with other services provided by the municipality and business policy. Municipalities have the best expertise in the local labour market. The expansion of the responsibility of municipalities has already been tried by Minister Ihalainen during the last government term in the Employment Assembly. The final report of the pilot follow-up study, which has recently appeared, concludes that the results of the pilot municipalities on employment management are better than in similar control municipalities. Now is the time to introduce these good experiences everywhere. Local government experiments have also shown that we have legal barriers to sensible employment, and the final reports of these projects clearly state what kind of pilot laws should be piloted in the regions. Let us hope that the government is now quick to take action on this important issue. It does not always make sense and it is not possible to find employment. At the moment, we have long-term unemployed people close to retirement age, who would make good sense to retire. It would be a good and honourable option for them themselves, but at the same time it would free up the resources of municipalities and the employment administration. In the current employment situation, they do not even have the prospect of a job. These people are able to work from the point of view of the pension system but are unable to work from the point of view of working life. Mr President! A few words on the situation of young people. The Government strongly reduces the budget allocated to youth employment and the prevention of social exclusion. In the longer term, this can cost society a great deal of money, because the euro, which has been invested in preventing exclusion, produces itself in many ways back. According to many estimates, one young person who is excluded will pay society well over EUR 1 million during his or her life. The Youth Guarantee measures have been particularly successful in preventing the exclusion of young people. For example, after comprehensive school, the share of those entering further education is higher than ever. Similarly, detective youth work has reached 20,000 so - called lost youths each year, of whom more than 15,000 have needed longer guidance. Finally, Mr President, there is a need for rigorous measures, not only to create jobs, but also to improve the situation of young people and the long-term unemployed in particular. Indeed, unemployment has a global impact on people. Health problems are increasing and social relations are suffering. For society, tax revenues and labour inputs are not available, while the need for social support and services is increasing. Working ability and working life skills are also deteriorating very rapidly. Finland does not have time to wait. Employment measures are needed here and now, as the SDP has suggested. I therefore call on the government now to take very rapid measures instead of focusing on means which, even in expert judgements, are highly questionable. Finally, I also wish the government a touch of humility, for it is now needed from all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u234	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The basis of the welfare state as a whole is employment as comprehensive as possible. The basic idea of a welfare state is 'everyone according to their abilities, to everyone according to their needs'. If participation in society weakens, the foundation of well - being will be shaken. Everyone wants to feel their future secure. The work and the livelihood it brings is a fundamental issue in life, and I believe that more must be fought for it, and this is an issue that is justifiable. Unemployment results in an increase in income inequality, which increases the division of people, social, health and economic inequalities. It also threatens social peace and economic development. Income development is also differentiated among entrepreneurs. One out of every five single entrepreneurs lives on the poverty line. Now the bourgeois government of our country is applying a recipe in its financial management that has failed all over the world. There has been no improvement in growth and employment through cutting. Congestive consumption leads to increased unemployment and a worsening of the plight of entrepreneurs when no one can afford to buy products and services. As a result of these cuts, the livelihoods of low-income groups will become more difficult in many respects. These include sole entrepreneurs. Investing in companies and investing in production would be the best way to recover from the recession. This is not happening now, although large companies have significant cash reserves and the ability to pay dividends. To this problem of greed, I would like to see medicines other than lower wages and forced labour laws. Improving the employment and purchasing power of the working population and improving the livelihoods of pensioners would help many small entrepreneurs to get out of the economic crisis. Especially in times of recession, society must support employment and maintain domestic markets. Strong investment incentives are needed to improve employment. When large companies do not invest in their production and investment, the government needs to accelerate the domestic market and consumption through the budget. In the process of recession, all consumption is beneficial. Finland therefore needs prompt action to implement the necessary public investment. We need to get cranes and excavators out of storage and quickly create a financing model to mobilise the necessary investments. Now construction is cheap when interest rates are low and works are at affordable prices. The time for high unemployment is just the right time to invest in public construction, such as mould schools, day-care centres, bumpy streets and highways, rail transport, rental housing and other works that would otherwise have to be done in the near future. A correction debt such as the one we have today cannot be left for posterity, which is worse than leaving a financial debt. Improved and faster transport connections will also create jobs for us It's a circle outside number three. Increasing the investment of the State and its controlled companies by 5% would create jobs for thousands of people who are currently unemployed. The European TEN-T transport network money for Finland is only 16 million. The Baltic States receive hundreds of millions, as does Denmark. Big money goes beyond our borders, why? Is our influence and lobbying weak? What is Jyrki Katainen, EU Commissioner for Investment? Finland must receive concrete support from Europe for new investments, and we must invest in knowledge in the search for money. on the European Fund for Strategic Investments The EFSI must bring concrete benefits to Finland at a billion-level level. The EU's objective is to mobilise €315 billion of investment by 20. At this rate, Finland must be involved. Mr President! We need work and economic growth, implemented by the right means. Our businesses are only going to be successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u235	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Järvinen's motion of censure. I have been a little confused about this debate ever since the middle-point issue, although I signed it myself. At the latest, Mr Lindström's speech revealed that our employment and economic policies are staring back at the past. We are now solving the problems of history, even though we should look for solutions for the future. It is no wonder that the Finnish economy is dwindling when the labour market is seen as a static, stagnant system. In reality, the world is now changing faster than ever before in the history of the human species and the world economy, the economy and the labour market, and even the work itself are undergoing change. Parliamentary work is just so intense and interesting that there is a great risk that you will not find the world around you, and at these times there are many of them. Future researchers actually anticipate that the world will change as much in the next 20 years as in the past 200 years combined. The year 1815 is best known for the Battle of Waterloo. So, in this economic situation, old medicines do not help because the disease is new and yet unknown. Mr President! Does the government's employment policy, or even our interplay, respond to the challenges of working life in the future? No, no, no. On the contrary, forgetting, for example, freelancers and self-employed workers from the new unemployment insurance law indicates that the government has alienated itself from the everyday life of today’s world of work. Shredder work is today's reality. Working life surfs from one job to another every two or three years as whole industries rise and die and the skills requirements of the professions change. Etla has predicted that over the next 20 years, 30% of the current occupations of Finns will disappear, not jobs, but entire occupations, when the AI and robots take over. It is symbolic that the Minister of Labour did not mention digitalisation at all in his speech, although it is one of the main themes of the Government Programme and the forces of change in working life. We will soon be talking about a shredded life in which people are working together, entrepreneurs, studying for a new profession, parental leave and the following year with rehabilitation allowance, part-time pension and family carers. No social security system can keep pace with such a shredded life, and that is why the government's basic income experiment is so welcome. Mr President! Another point to draw attention to in the debate over recent months is the loss of productivity. Everyone today only talks about unit labour costs, the cost of work and working time, as if labour productivity were constant. However, the reason for Finland's current problems is precisely the falling productivity of Finnish labour. The failure of previous governments with their productivity programmes to increase the productivity of Finnish labour simply means that the crisis is worse than before, not that we should forget about productivity as a whole. The trend in Finnish labour productivity has been declining since the 1990s, in fact even in Nokia's good years. In recent years, labour productivity has already been negative, i.e. an hour worked in Finland produces less added value year by year but costs as much as before. No wonder the economy is stalling. However, the solution to Finland’s economic situation is not wage competition with competing countries. In fact, the wages of Finns are European middle caste, so for some reason Finnish companies do not get as much out of the Finnish workforce as our competitors, where the economy is growing. By focusing on the cost of work, however, we forget about labour productivity, and if labour productivity continues to develop negatively, we will have to reduce the unit cost of work again and again and again. The race to the bottom will not end until Finland is cheap. Instead, we must do all we can to improve labour productivity, i.e. invest, invest in new ways of working and in enabling skills and technology, both in the private and public sectors. The result will be a genuine productivity leap and the resulting increase in the competitiveness of Finnish work and the resulting increase in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u236	Mr President! It has been a few hours now to listen to this lively debate, and I noted with interest the enthusiasm of the present government parties to criticise the actions of Prime Minister Katainen and Prime Minister Stubb's governments. There must be room for criticism. Mr Ala-Nissilä stopped by to say it was a period of indecision. Well, of course that's not true. Especially during the time of the Katainen Government, in the midst of the euro crisis, very difficult decisions were taken to implement the adjustment measures, but in a way that such fairness in both taxation and these savings was achieved, and solutions were also made that made our competitiveness more competitive: two comprehensive labour market solutions, one collective contract and a major pension reform, which were the most important issues for our competitiveness. You didn't have to negotiate four times at the time. Why do you think it is now that you need it? It was also my intention to say that constructive speeches, milder turns, more cooperative speeches and abstinence were also made in this debate on the fact that, if there were still a chance of reaching agreement on a long agreement in the labour market. This is also why it is important now that this kind of trust capital here should now be put together a little. Christmas peace comes a little at a good time, and let us take a breath and hopefully we can still negotiate here. Afterwards, you could say that the offer from the SAK and other employees' organisations, which was very important and responsible, should perhaps have been taken up immediately at that blue moment, because now that offer does not exist as such. I would not like to think about the mess and the outlook we have in the autumn if the government is cluttering with this coercive package and is going into a decentralised labour market round in the autumn. That is why it would be extremely important to find an agreement here on the basis of a more stable, long-term labour market solution and the development of this contractual local agreement. It is all right to live in this hope, and I am actually able to believe that such discussions will still take place. Unemployment is, of course, the greatest source of income inequality and, if it is to be prolonged, the greatest risk of people being excluded — much has been said about it here — and it is good to go back to the fact that we have 113,000 long-term unemployed, and we now have about half of all unemployed people who are harder to employ, which means that these people need work capacity, rehabilitation, training, life-management measures to cope with the labour market in general, even if jobs are opened up. And we have a very high risk, a low risk of an emergency cry, that we now have a large number of people excluded from the labour market and society. This means that we are investing here and now in the money, in the funding that keeps these people in these measures. I agree that Finland no longer has an economic sustainability gap, but that we have a very big problem with the social sustainability gap. In this respect, it is important that these cuts in the government's employment budget should not be made for next year and for the whole parliamentary term. Now the activation rate has dropped to 21 percent. It's a terrible state. But so far we have been able to keep more than 100,000 people in these active activities, that is, nearly 30% of the unemployed. It would be important to return to this important path. The second aspect is that we have people who have been unemployed for an exceptionally long time. After all, we found that there are 3,700 people over the age of 60 who have been unemployed for five years. Everyone understands that these people are in the wrong place. They'll never work. They should be given an honourable decision whether it is a pension subsidy decision or whatever it is so that they can get to another place in human terms. One more thing related to the employment of older people is that we have built a pay subsidy system in such a way that pay subsidies for people over the age of 60 are permanent. I hope that this money will not end in the way that this too will be broken, that it will not be possible to support older people in such a way that the wage subsidy will be attractive to the company and longer-term. Finally, I would also like to return to this youth guarantee. We have been working with the President of Parliament for four years, and we have also achieved results. Of course you'd have liked better. But I just want to say that we invested 60 million plus 40 million a year in this employment, education and social exclusion of young people and young adults. And this has been achieved by the fact that 99% of our young people today have access to secondary education from primary school. The training guarantee has worked well in this respect, So all in all, I hope that we will build a spirit of cooperation in this society,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u237	Madam President! Representative Ihalainen is probably heartily concerned about the Finnish unemployed and knows that side very well. That is not the way I want to go about it, because I am not so well-acquainted myself. But the economic situation in Finland. Lindström has been called, among other things, employment and so on, and the SDP keeps saying, "Here and now". We had four years of the Minister of Finance from the SDP, and what happened if we went to history? In 2007, we had a trade surplus of 6072 million. In 2011, it turned in such a way that the trade balance was in deficit of 3682 million and so on, in 2014, it was in deficit of 1796 million. What did Lindström have in hand to employ people? Flies in the back pocket. There's really nothing you can do about it. Now we need to get the state finances in order to create jobs. Deficit and debt will not create sustainable, sustainable jobs, and if we take this left-wing line, which is now mainly socialism, the sharing economy, where will we get investors with capital in the market economy? They won't go along with it. They go along with where the euro begins to produce, and there is now a study that shows that as many as 70 per cent of companies are in start-ups to move to the most productive regions. So this isn't where we're going to be placed. This matter is now being tried by this government to get the investors to come here. That is what this is all about. About the means. We have too expensive a job and so on. That price tag just isn't good enough for that world. Of course, the representative of the green plant spoke very well about the productivity of the work. It's been down at our house, and we're going to be left behind in the world. Market economy and capital are such faceless, invisible forces. We can't catch them. There's no way. They'll move away if we grab them with a hard hand. They say thank you no. At the moment, the biggest problem for us is the shortage of employers. When we get them here to Finland, then we start to have the cake we can share. It is exactly as the Ihalainen here said and talked about long-term unemployment and employment: when the cake is in order, Minister Lindström will start to work when he has something else, that is, the cake, in place of a flyball. And I'm sure Ihalainen can tell you there's something we can do. In this situation, there has been talk of debt and so on. We've got to break it. Now the government is trying to do what they can. I'll tell you personally, it's not nice for me to go down there to the square to tell you this kind of news that we're gonna have to cut. But somewhere you have to do it, and that's responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u238	Madam President! When the trade balance is repeatedly negative and the employment rate does not rise, the alarm clocks are ringing, and they must have been ringing. Public authorities, the government, have taken on their role in managing the economy. We are in the straitjacket of the euro. Mr Ihalainen has just listed the ways in which, in due course, it was thought to combat the risks of joining EMU when Finland did not have an independent monetary and monetary policy. Finland is on the edge of the currency area and the euro area is asymmetric. I'm going back to history for a while. In 1994 Jaakko Kiander wrote in his study Emu and the labour market as follows. "The problem of Emu membership may result in the creation of an We can now consider how well we were prepared for this when we went to monetary union. Indeed, Mr Ihalainen mentioned precautionary measures here, such as the Emu buffers, but they have obviously not been enough. Kiander also asked this question. "How will it be in the future if the exchange ratio improves strongly and sometimes to Historically, then, major economic upheavals have been overcome by changing the exchange rate, that is, devaluing. Sweden can currently make competitive devaluations, but we cannot. Changes in functions and structure are slower, i.e. wage flexibility and local reconciliation as an example. Monetary union does not prevent either the union round, the social pact or a centralised labour market solution. But now we're looking for these things and rolling them around. As a Eurosceptic, I have to say that it is true that a national currency would be a preferred option for me and that an exchange rate adjustment would be preferable to debt and wage flexibility. But, as I said, we are in the straitjacket of the euro and there has not yet been a referendum on the euro. Here too, as Mr Kiander did in his studies, there is an alternative to public sector investment, but there is only a limited scope for such investment. They're necessary. I therefore warmly support the renovation of mould schools, the construction of kindergartens from the North-Finnish log, the promotion of log and wood construction, but we cannot continue to build those buildings, the unproductive walls. I mean that kindergarten and school are productive walls, that is, education is productive in Finland, but roads and walls are not enough, as has been seen in Europe. The Government wants to work towards economic growth, competitiveness and a vibrant business sector. Yesterday we had a long discussion about the weariness of the workers. No one's been worried about the employer's fatigue today. A growth company and a profit-making and profit-making company have the courage to hire employees and entrepreneurs must be able to rely on sound and smooth management. Today, far too many entrepreneurs’ children say that they are close to their parents’ jobs when they see that they never become entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u241	Värderade fru talman! Det är viktigt att vi får fart på Finland. Det är med arbete och med företagsamhet som vi kan lyfta vårt land ur den kris vi är i nu, och det är med fler arbetsplatser som vi kan se framåt mot ett framgångsrikt Finland som åter finns inte på sista plats och inte på näst sista plats, när man jämför EU-länderna, utan ippen, och dit ska vi tillbaka.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u242	Madam President! I was just talking about the obligation of municipalities to provide employment. On the other hand, employment management also needs business activity and its success. Now that business needs a clear boost in the competitive situation in the business world. In the services sector, the temporary reduction in value added proposed by the Left Alliance is a welcome improvement. It increases consumption, such as the EUR 1500 purchase credit for scrap vehicles increased car sales. A fixed-term discount always inspires you to buy. As consumption increases, it would create more jobs in the service sector. The services sector is a sector most often employing young workers, thus creating jobs for young people. Madam President! The conditions of the export industry must also be improved. That is why I hope that the government will continue to reflect more on the EUR 600 million planned for the Government Programme for the correction of the infrastructure. For example, instead of EUR 100 million already planned for next year, EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million would be mobilised for 2017. This is because the development potential of our export industry and tourism would improve in a faster timeframe. It will create new opportunities for improving the competitiveness of our export companies. Faster connections would reduce transport costs. Good transport connections are extremely important for improving the employment situation in the regions, as they guarantee the development of tourist destinations and improve investment opportunities for projects in the regions. There is also a need for considerable investment in education and research. That's why we shouldn't have had those surgeries. Instead of cutting, we should have invested in research and development cooperation between companies and universities. This will create new, high-quality product ideas and develop them for production. It makes it possible to build new production facilities here. Finland already has high-quality expertise in the metal, energy, wood processing and pharmaceutical industries and many other product sectors. In order to maintain high quality and to buy and export products to the external market, good education, high quality research and high-quality product development are needed in Finland. It would therefore be necessary for the government to reverse these cuts in education and research. I come from the locality where the export is taking place. They've invested in a paper mill, turned it into a cardboard factory. In addition, a LVL prefabricated factory will be completed that will make wood elements into buildings. These investments amount to approximately 160 million. In addition, a waste incineration plant in Eastern Finland worth between EUR 120 and 130 million will be built in the Varkaus region with local planning. These plants are currently producing the largest soda boiler in the world in Indonesia. In Sweden it received an order for the Östrand pulp mill. It's the biggest soda boiler in Sweden. Then Foster Wheeler is building the world's largest bioenergy plant in South Korea. Then we had such a factory, which was already being lost in the Varkaus region, such as Aikawa Fiber Technologies, a Japanese-owned company, and they made such a decision that their own crew went to develop it, and at the moment it is building the world's best and best-quality cellophones and records, is competitive, and there they were not talking about salary reductions at all, but about product development and other things. It is very important that Varkaus has been built on campus at the University of Lappeenranta, the local university of applied sciences, vocational school and upper secondary school, where the energy industry is being developed further. There has also been developed such circulatory technology and taken from these natural products, there are grown moss in the factory area and produced caviar. All such fine opportunities that can be used, come through education and good ideas. More of these are needed in Finland. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u243	Madam President! At least we parliamentarians have had a debate today on employment policy, which is a good thing, that is, we are in the same boat, we were in the opposition or we were in the government. I think this is the 150th floor. There is a common concern, but we do not agree with these methods. Indeed, the beginning of the government's term has been intense, especially for low-paid workers and the unemployed. Among other things, the Government has decided to intervene in collective contract law, cut holiday allowances, sick pay and earnings-related unemployment benefit. The collapse of the social contract was not much of a surprise to me, at least, because why would the EK want to negotiate when the government and its coercive laws give it everything without negotiation? The red thread in the government's employment policy is to increase the insecurity of workers, unfortunately. In their speeches, the government increases the flexibility of working life, although in reality, from an employee’s point of view, it is a deterioration of working life. We know that increasing the uncertainty of working life will have far-reaching effects. When the productivity target comes first and people are far behind it, the workplace is getting worse. How productive and creative can a worker who is constantly concerned about his own job be? Mr President! What is worrying is that parents’ concern about their work situation and the family’s livelihood is reflected in their children. Children are extremely good at identifying their parents ’ concerns. Of course, parents try to protect it, but this is how it is that when the pile of calculations grows, it is reflected in children and the whole family. Much about today’s working life is shown by the growing experience of poverty in families where parents work. Fragile labour market status, temporary work, part-time work and low pay are thus increasingly the root of poverty in families with children. It is alarming that the chain of poverty cannot always be broken, but is passed on from one generation to the next. If the child-effects of decisions are not taken, this will be seen in the future as an ever-increasing segregation of children and young people into the disadvantaged and the well-off. Far too many people begin to be excluded in early childhood. This development must be stopped, but it now seems that the government will only deepen this development. Can we really afford not to interfere? I don't think so. Government coercive laws, such as cutting holiday money and sick leave pay, further increase the poverty of families with children. In many families holiday trips are already a dream, but after cutting holiday money travel is more and more the joy of the wealthy. Mr President! The major issue of working life is also the liberalisation of the opening hours of shops. Not only can we look at this from the consumer's point of view, but the impact of the transition to a 24/7 society on the everyday lives of shopkeepers must also be examined. Currently, shift work is most frequent in the fields of health and social services, retail trade and accommodation and nutrition. The liberalisation of trading hours is also a question of women, since the majority of shop workers are women. Many shift-working parents already have difficulty finding a place to take care of the child and participating in the child’s hobbies and other leisure activities. How will this everyday puzzle be facilitated if shop opening hours are released? How do we get the services to respond to the increase in night work? The gender and child effects of the repeal of the Business Time Act should be clarified as a matter of urgency. I am also concerned about small businesses, how they will be affected. It is estimated that, as a result of the repeal of the Act on Business Time, the market share of large chains will increase and small shops will die. Here, too, it is seen that the promotion of entrepreneurship actually means promoting the position of large companies at the expense of small ones. The effects of sick leave on the qualifying day are also very different in different areas. Women-dominated care and education and trade sectors become more ill, and when they are sick, the risks are higher. One who works with poor elderly people or in a newborn intensive care unit rightly wonders, even in a small flu, whether he dares to go to work to sicken his care recipients. In addition, many jobs can stay in the cold to do remote work at home and avoid carnage, but you can't build a house or put out a fire.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u244	Madam President! There was talk of the Varkaus region, and high technology is such that those investments will certainly come, but how do we get everyone to work? That's the question. We have a chance, among other things, on the bio side. A couple of years ago, an industrial group told me that they have four further processing plants that process these from the sawmill, as far as they are concerned, parquet and so on. Everything is moved to a country other than Finland because it is more profitable to make it elsewhere. This is market-based. That money will be put where it produces. I have seen by myself how we have the best know-how in the world in this area absolutely. I've been around the globe and seen the situation. We are being exported to Hungary, or earlier, and to Italy. It was brought to Finland as a ready-made parquet. What's the point of making a move like this? Somewhere it must be the problem when it's worth making up at the end of the shipping truck and truck and bringing back the same stuff. We will certainly have this country full of work if it is to be done and organised properly. And those obstacles must be removed. You have to be able to look them right in the eye. Are they on the terms of the job? Then where are they? Nobody wants to cut their pay. If the employer has invested in the employee — I have seen it — for a couple of years, it is an investment, during which time it has produced nothing really. When it starts producing, of course, it will be taken care of and paid according to its ability to pay. No one quits for fun, no one lay off, and no one does it that way. Absolutely not. There's no such employer. Of course, such international companies, which operate from the Laughter Islands or from there, do not know their employees or in that way. They have different starting points. But how do we — I am a rural person — get jobs, investments, so on, labour productivity, as the plant spoke? There's a problem with that. The government is now making painful decisions. If this were to happen now, people would not be excluded, there would be productive jobs and there would be the cake that I have spoken about many times. The export industry needs to be put in order, and the medicines for that will certainly exist. Is it possible to use them? That's different. It is probably not the decision-making power in this house where those decisions are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u245	Madam Speaker! The majority of today's speeches underline the need to reform Finnish society and politics. Good for you, it gives you the advantage of believing that reforms will also take place. What, then, is the main subject of reform, is certainly in terms of employment, when it has been discussed today, is that we are genuinely achieving a social pact, a new agreement in which the various parties – the politicians, the national government and Parliament, as well as the social partners – are able to agree on matters jointly. This is essential for our competitiveness. However, what I have missed with this debate is that, especially on the part of the SDP — which today became excellent speeches, good openings and a great deal of cooperation — one thing was exhausted, and it is a clear announcement that the SDP is fully involved in driving and bringing about and contributing to the creation of a social pact. Do it. You still have a few speeches to make here. Do it, let me know you want to do this. It will then also be a clear signal to the social partners that there is a broad desire for a social pact. You will rise to the unpredictable value if you do this. I also hope that we here on the political side will remember that we are the only one in this country to take care of the whole thing. All others are concerned with their own affairs, more or less. That is why it is important that we politicians have a healthy relationship with the various interest groups, and not that it is one with one with another, we must remember that. Interest groups do important work, but so do we here — so does the government, so does the Parliament. I'll tell you one more time, I hope there's someone else here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u246	Mr President! The previous speaker well pointed the way for the Socialist option, but I thought I would start by focusing a little on the picture we have discussed today in the mid-term debate, and then, if the time is right, I will answer the questions of the representative. Mr President! In this time it is a question of how we can deal with such massive unemployment, which is also linked to the fact that we are facing a situation where, in fact, the purchasing power of the citizens is threatening to disappear and thus, of course, the demand in the market is weakening and thus the willingness of entrepreneurs to invest is reduced. And once we have created a cycle, there will be no growth in these forecasts, so an active employment policy and an active economic policy that supports it are the words of the day that must also genuinely create growth in this difficult situation. We are proposing such an overall package for employment and growth, i.e. around EUR 600 million, so that we can genuinely create growth and jobs from work. Mr President! I am very concerned about the government's intention to cut the budget for employment management. We all know that it is going to be sick, and 150 million is far too much so that we can deal with this employment situation at all. That is why I fear that this tight fiscal policy, combined with an inactive employment policy, will lead us to find ourselves in a very difficult situation next year. As far as my province, Satakunta, is concerned, the employment budget ran out as early as June, and Parliament was unable to respond to this echo, because a small amount of employment appropriations by autumn actually meant that we did not get enough people out of unemployment to cover different types of paths. This is, of course, a pretty big question when we look at society. Mr President! We have to bring up today's events. My concern is whether Parliament has now known what the left hand of the government has done and what the right hand has done. I think the problem is that no one currently has an overall picture of how to increase the employment rate. And I am truly sorry that Mr Lindström is very little supported if his chances of raising the employment rate are so low. In such a situation of employment, it cannot be thought that education is not a genuine option for people. We have far too few of the real tools to bring people to the path. I find it very unwise and totally inappropriate that today the Ministerial Working Party on Skills and Education has decided in its own wisdom that the reform of vocational education and training can be carried out in a way that allows for a cut in the number of training places. I would like to ask you again, the representatives who are here, and a handful of you, 6 people and the President, but I am so happy about this team too, because everyone can make an impression: is it really possible for us to have 47,000 initial vocational training places, and do we really think that we are giving the trainers a mandate even if we end 190 million starting places in this country? In practice, that would mean 17,000 starting places. I am not sure whether the MPs of the government parties have blessed the fact that in every province the starting points for vocational education and training can be reduced by one third as a result of today's decision. Now I really hope that you will make a difference when this is only the decision of the ministerial working group. In that respect, I am very concerned about whether people would be able to get to education if they did not get to work. In this respect, I hope that this decision can still be reversed. There is another problem that I am not going to be able to deal with, but let us get back to it, which is to stay within five minutes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u247	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here again, and Mr Kiuru has already brought up some good points of view, which means that, for example, this cutting of domestic purchasing power will be visible, especially in the service sector and the service sector, which means that there will be difficulties for businesses in the tourism sector, for businesses in the catering sector, for trade. It is now known from this year that trade has not taken place, as it has been in the past. In other words, when it comes to bad news and losses, it also means business negotiations, redundancies, the layoffs that Mr Hakkarainen also spoke about. No one really wants to, I do not believe that Finnish, domestic companies, entrepreneurs would like to lay off their employees. On the contrary, they want to expand their own business, they want to grow, but do they today have the conditions for growth here in Finland when we know what the government's policy is? In other words, when you cut off pensioners, cut off the unemployed, cut off students, cut off families with children, the available amount of money in households will be reduced, when you have to make choices, you have to save money, and then it will usually be targeted at such service companies. Let's not get a haircut, let's not go on a trip with families, let's just not do it. We can all see that somewhere, and that is why I find it quite incomprehensible the idea of how to create that new job and innovation if, at the same time, we cut it off, cut it off from education, product development and so on. We should also understand how to invest, increase resources to the right targets. There has also been talk of a bioeconomy tonight and today, and if there is no investment, then there will be no work there either. In this respect, I am very concerned about the way in which these laws, which have now been put forward, will affect our working life in practice, when unemployment is still the major problem that should be addressed today. These prospects for growth are certainly not promising companies anything good, but, on the contrary, it can be expected that unemployment will only get even worse and deeper next year. That is not what we want in this Chamber. We hope for the opposite, as we have fortunately heard from everyone who has spoken. As I said in the previous speech, these means are, in my view, incomprehensible, and they are certainly not capable of promoting domestic employment, nor are they capable of promoting the export industry, but that is the way it is. We must try to find other ways now. I too hope that the social partners will find the common tone, but this blackmail package, which was thrown out of the public eye in the spring, has already taken its course. Yes, in genuine negotiations we must assume that both sides, this whole, will be given the space to negotiate and not blackmail anyone so that now, if you do not agree to this, then we will do so. Unfortunately, there was no real negotiating situation here. Madam President! Yesterday the government announced that it would set up a tripartite working group to prepare legislation to promote this local agreement and strengthen the status of personnel, but the work of this working group is certainly challenging due to the timetable and the lack of trust created by forced laws. Local agreements are already widely used and care must continue to be taken to ensure that local agreements do not become the same as reducing wages and working conditions and increasing job insecurity. There can only be genuine agreement and trust between the parties to the agreement. In government policy, the role of employers and the responsibility for the development of working life have been neglected. Motivated, productive, committed workers will not be brought into work by increasing insecurity, as is known. Employers must also be required to have good management and commitment to employees. Careers will increase and productivity will improve as more attention is paid to different life situations and to the division of workers of different ages. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u248	Mr President! Rarely have we in society had as important a common goal as we currently have. Our goal is to make the wheels spin and the economy grow. At the moment, our investment rate is exceptionally low. We need the factors in the economy that will turn it into growth. A few more comments on this situation: If our industry receives orders and has received orders, then it is not necessarily the order book that tells us everything. A disturbing amount is also happening so that a significant part of the order is made abroad. This tells us something about what our competitiveness is, and this requires action to enable us to compete better on the world market. Yes, there are key factors to this, such as those raised by the representative of the plant, that we need to improve productivity development, and there are many ways to do so. I will not go into those details, but it is fundamental that we have a common concern and that this matter requires joint efforts, not confrontation. In this respect, it is absolutely essential that the social agreement be reached. I believe that there is also enough responsibility for this, that it will also be done. The alternative, if not, is pretty serious. Now there are a few things that are disturbing in this debate, and that is, for example, that we are talking about forced laws, that the government must withdraw them. There are no mandatory laws in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u251	Mr President! Even though the evening is already on the long side, I must say to Mr Töll that it is so that when the option is offered it never seems to be properly extinguished. This is how it always seems to be said here that there is no alternative. Then, when it was, it was wrong and then it was at least misfired if nothing else. That is why I asked for the floor, Mr President, that I at least sat here yesterday for a long evening when there were, at first and second readings, cuts in this government, which have already been about three weeks here at the hearing. Yes, there are cuts, and we would never have brought a forced bill to Parliament. There is, for example, one difference between the opposition and the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u252	Madam President! First I told you about these opportunities for municipalities and then for companies, and then I also told you about the state of theft, which part goes well. Those investments will probably give us someone between 200 and 300 new jobs, at least we hope so. But the recession of the 1990s and the restructuring of the forest industry left us with a great deal of trouble there, which is why we have the employment budget. Even theft needs a great deal. There is an unemployment rate of around 17%, which is 1,700 unemployed, of which 1,000 are long-term unemployed. Looking for jobs like this is hard work. Where do you find 1,700 new jobs, where could these things be placed? It is a construction site, which even the city is trying hard to do and try to find those opportunities, get companies there and do all the work in terms of employment management. But they cannot be made now without state employment aid decisions and financing decisions. The city is prepared to invest its own money in them in order to succeed in this job creation and in that way to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u253	Madam President! As far as vocational training is concerned, Mr Kiuru made it clear that it is being cut off. We have such a situation, I have been somewhat acquainted with the fact that there is a multipurpose machine driver on the forest side. Its training costs almost as much as the training of a fighter pilot. That course goes there, we go to the next course, we go to the next course, we go to the next course, we go to the next course. Now the government is making cuts here, and I believe that it will target it in such a way that there will be such a system of drivers, that the employer will be given the opportunity to train and that way the employee will also be integrated into the job where the training comes from. Certainly it will be much cheaper than running these courses, going from one course to another and embellishing in it unemployment statistics, doing all this stuff that it brings with it. Then, in the past, the opposition pointed out that the government is taking up 500 million more debts than in the previous year. Why is this so? This sudden immigration came. Certainly, the politics of the Finns did not result.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u256	Mr President! At the outset, it must be said to the previous speaker: In this respect, the representative is wrong that you in the government have paid the right attention to indebtedness and, in particular, to the level of indebtedness and also to the timetable, and in that respect our concern is united. But the fact is that this new government is in more debt than it was this year, and you chose this line of indebtedness long before we talked about such a massive immigration into this country, because the budget of this autumn, in which this amount of indebtedness is defined, derives directly from the government programme. On that point, I am sure that we will come back to this debate on debt many more times, but it is good to say once again that the Social Democrats have built up their own alternative instead of increasing debt, so that we owe significantly less than this government and still invest in employment, investment, entrepreneurship and exports and make a more socially just policy and make sure that knowledge has a future in this country. Mr President! I wanted to say that the Social Democrats have presented their own alternative, and in this time, when we are also looking for good opportunities for income sources, I think that the economic situation is so serious that exceptional means could also be available, and in that regard we have thought that the EMU buffer, which has been built up in good years, could now be the potential resource for this economic situation. I think it might be justified for these buffers to be used to reduce the employer's and employee's earnings-related pension contribution, as was already envisaged in the system in 97. That is why we have proposed a temporary reduction of 0.8% for 2016-2018, and when time improves, then in the better, stronger years the buffers will be restored to normal levels. Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion today about employment management, and I wonder if the minas have been so strongly impressed, but I would like to talk about raising this employment rate. I am terribly concerned about the way in which the employment rate in this society could be increased, and indeed education is one of the instruments of employment policy. Now, this fallout of the Youth Guarantee, the complete end of the programme for young adults and the complete end of the Noste programme are the wrong moves. Over the last period, about 100 million were invested a year to enable these people, who are particularly difficult in education, to acquire further skills. At the same time, we talk about the group of young people under the age of 30 who depend only on comprehensive school, and at the same time about the group of adults over the age of 30 who have not yet received a post-basic education degree. This is to provide secondary education for as many people as possible, and also in these situations where, through structural changes, people lose the opportunity for the profession that they have once employed, we need to have these resources, and I therefore repeat that I do not think it is good that the starting points for vocational education and training should be cut by up to a third in the name of this structural reform, which was never a structural reform in which the starting places for vocational training should be cut. And I don't know why the government's gonna end up there. Furthermore, I am concerned that Minister of Employment Lindström is in a very difficult position at a time when, from here on the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, these resources for labour market training are being transferred to the Ministry of Education and, as part of this reform, education leading to an initial vocational qualification in 2016 will not take place any more young people or even more older people. This is a terrible hard line that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has made at the moment, and this is not going to be a good thing. I very much hope that it will be taken up and taken care to ensure that it is genuinely possible to ensure that education and skills can re-enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u257	Madam President! When the name was mentioned, that's why I took it. We have a situation where the tax base has narrowed quite a bit. The situation over the last term of government has remained, which is what it is. I mentioned here that in 2011, the trade balance was 3682 million in deficit. How has our trade balance been falling down all the time and the public side has been growing at the same time? We are living in a double deficit, and this situation needs to be brought to an end. That's the situation. When we make the trade balance surplus, we will be able to finance the public sector in which we are now doing these things, education and so on, what we share in the common good. This is the problem, and we must be able to deal with it, then we can take it to education and so on. But like a representative Tölli said, four years was time to put this thing in order. In 2014, the trade balance showed a deficit of EUR 1796 million, which was nothing at all. Now there is no cake that we put there, then action must be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u258	Mr President! It was said here that we were unable to get the trade balance right. I think it is a somewhat unfair comment in a time when we have seen that economic growth has dived in the last three or four years. In that respect, we must be equally concerned about how to manage employment and the economy in a way that generates growth. When, as the only remedy here, the government offers that the wages of Finns should be cut in order to increase exports, then if we agree with the previous speaker here that exports should be increased, then we certainly do not agree that it will be exported through wage cuts. We do believe that we need to genuinely increase exports by other means. Wage cuts will not be the recipe for Finnish exports to flourish, because the competitiveness gap we are talking about here is the problem of some very narrow sectors and not the competitiveness problem for industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u259	Madam President! Last season there was a reduction in corporation tax, and where was it directed? Certainly not these small businesses that are now struggling to cope with the discipline of this market economy. You have to live with it. It affected only large companies that move away and operate from other parts of Finland. These were the decisions that were made. And that no one here wants to cut anything from anyone. We have nothing but to make the export industry competitive too, that is what this is all about. How do you get it? That capitalist lives, listen, even in a very poor person. When the shoes are 50 in the S-store, the same shoes at the K-store cost 100 bucks, we'll definitely go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u260	It's all right. — Let us go to the list of speakers and then we can discuss more, but at this point, Mr Skinner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u261	Mr President! When it comes to the issue of employment policy and the ideas and ideas of the SDP seem to be good today, I thought about continuing the list, that is, not two without a third. There are nearly 200,000 sole entrepreneurs in Finland, some 170,000. What if each of our sole entrepreneurs hired one new employee? Then we would not have a problem with employment. As part of the alternative budget, as part of the entrepreneurship package, the SDP has presented a first employee reduction package, which includes the possibility for the entrepreneur to reduce the salary costs of the first external worker by up to EUR 20000 from the taxable income. And why are we doing this? Because the threshold for employment is high for the first outside worker. Often the entrepreneur even accepts business degradation rather than taking the risk of employment. In this way, the employer, a company of persons or a limited company could deduct a maximum of EUR 20000 from the earnings of the first employee outside the family for the following financial year. Employment should be in line with the terms of the collective agreement and may also be part-time or at least six months' fixed-term. For reasons of equity and also in order to avoid unclear incentives, the reduction also applies to companies which already have one external employee. So here's another concrete opening from the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u262	Madam President! On my side, I'm putting a stop to this. I'm going to continue, but we don't mean to give anyone the bad news. But now it's not when you're empty in a cup, and it's bad... If you've put a spoon in there, you can't take it with a spoon. It just doesn't work. About the export industry. We have talked about a 15% cost-competitive jump. And how to do that is the problem. No one here wants to cut anyone's wages, but the costs for employers in terms of productivity costs and financial costs are not just playing to the finish line. They're not good enough. It just slips away. The market economy does not ask us, it goes where it produces best.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u263	Mr President! I was still waiting to say to Mr Hakkarainen that, last season, corporate tax was reduced. At that time, we were confident that employers would deliver on their promises of the dynamic effects that were promised to improve employment, and this was not the case. That's not what happened. And it still has to be mirrored in relation to the fact that the Kela payment is already being abolished below. Yes, these have been huge investments in employers' direction, and now we are looking for a third effort, which is directly carved from the EK pen. And what I don't understand is why the Finns have gone into this sled. Finnish competitiveness does not improve by cutting wages for Finns. Do you honestly believe that Nokia’s telephones were not sold in the world because Finnish work was so expensive? Yes, they were not sold because they were no longer wanted to buy these phones because they no longer corresponded to the spirit of this time, and thus the product and the service passed by. That is why it is terribly important for us to be able to invest in this knowledge so that we can improve competitiveness in this country. It has now been hanged to ensure that the electronics industry, in which we have genuinely lost more than 10,000 jobs, is successful in the world, its competitiveness will only be improved by cutting wages. I cannot believe that competitiveness will improve when we cut the salaries of low-paid women in the public sector, so that the electronics industry will get wind in the world. It just doesn't work like this. This is a more significant investment than the write-off of the Kela levy and the corporate tax rebate for the last period. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u264	Madam President! Congressman Kiuru, could you please show us how those companies will come here to Finland? It's a natural exit: if we don't do well here in the world, it just goes away. And that's what the government's trying to do to get them here. And we don't want to cut anybody's wages, not me, and we don't do that kind of thing. But how will the cost level be brought to the level that is acceptable to the world? That's the problem, and there's been an attempt to make any kind of deal. Nothing's gonna work. We're just gonna have to throw a few things at the wheel. This isn't going to work. The government must take action in this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u265	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u266	Madam President! When we get to the subject, let's talk about exports. It is true what Mr Hakkarainen said that in certain sectors, yes, the price is what dictates competitiveness. But let's take a look at the whole thing. We've been talking about devaluations here today. Among other things, the Minister of Labour referred to the 1990s and said that we were able to survive with devaluation. There was much more to it than why Finland rose. The devaluation was one thing. But the problem for us Finns is that we are a small economy. We don't have international locomotives like our rival countries. In Finnish, our companies are alone, and we are also pretty bad at making partnerships, our competitors are much better at it than we are. We have therefore also presented in this alternative budget – that is, now the fourth item on the list, as I get going – a new approach to export to Finland. It is actually a model in which French Veolia has been doing a billion-dollar business for years. They have the locomotive — why not us? There are many reasons, but the reasons are also in our policy. But there are good things for us too: many big companies have now realised this situation and set up internal startups. But it is the task of a smart state to further promote this, and that is why we have rushed the government to bring Finnvera’s 300 million junior loan programme into practice now and not next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u267	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen asked if social demoks had medicines for this export promotion. We have made a programme of our own and a package for it. And it is only true that there are very few big Finnish companies, and it is a great pity that when we look at the success of our export products in the world, we often have neither the courage nor the courage but also the skills and contacts to promote products. And most companies are so small that it is difficult to get wind under their wings alone. There is also a great need for export-driven growth, in which the State can play its part. But I am also saddened by the fact that the efforts of digitalisation, which is a very big issue and which has a lot of potential for growth in Finland, can also be built on the basis of this strong electronics and information technology industry, have been further reduced in which the state could help. Instead, we are investing in the bioeconomy and cleantech now, and I do not deny that growth can be created from there, but it is incredible that this progress in digitalization is as interesting as it is. In that respect, we are in a difficult situation. Mr President! I am sorry that this competitiveness cannot be discussed with facts either. There is a need for competitiveness, and no one is denying it, but they hang on to the price competitiveness sled in a way that has now been launched on the basis of this Borg and Vartiainen report: the figures are now being used for the whole of GDP, when these gentlemen talked about competitiveness for the whole of GDP, and the same figures are now being used for the export industry, with no sadness, and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u268	The 12th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u269	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u270	The 14th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u271	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u272	For table setting, the 16th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u273	The 17th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u274	For table setting, the 18th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u275	For table setting, the 19th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u276	The 20th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u277	The 21st item will be presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u278	For table setting, the 22nd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u279	For table setting, the 23rd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u280	The 24th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u281	The 25th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u282	The 26th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u283	The 27th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u284	For table setting, the 28th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u285	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u286	For table setting, the 30th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u287	The 31st item is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u288	The 32nd item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u289	For table setting, the 33rd item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u290	The 34th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u291	The 35th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-09-ps-78.u292	The 36th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 10 December 2015.
