ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u1	For the sole reading, item 3 of the order of business, the Government's communication to Parliament on measures to strengthen cost-competitiveness, will be presented. The debate was closed at the plenary session on Wednesday 30 September 2015. In the debate, Lauri Ihalainen, supported by Sanna Marin, has proposed that information be sent to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. In addition, with the support of Lauri Ihalainen Sanna Marin, Ville Niinistö Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto and Paavo Arhinmäki Li Andersson, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u2	We must first vote on Lauri Ihalainen's proposal for a communication on referral to committee. If it is not decided to send the communication to committee, the proposals for a motion of censure to the Government must then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u3	We are now voting on the proposals for a motion of censure on the Government. The first vote on Paavo Arhinmäki's proposal is against Ville Niinistö's proposal, then against Lauri Ihalainen's proposal, and finally on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u4	May I ask the representatives to move to the meetings outside the Chamber, because now we are going to continue the plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other specialised committees shall deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on Thursday 1 October 2015. The debate is now continuing at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. A debate on points 5 to 29 of the order of business will also be allowed in this context. The debate will continue, and Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen will present his own sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u6	Mr President! We're going to the Ministry of the Environment's administration. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to ensure that sustainable living conditions and green growth are built in Finland. Strategic priorities include the construction of a low-carbon and energy-efficient Finland, the sustainable use of natural resources, the circular economy — a functioning one — good environment, diverse nature, functioning ecosystem services and housing for well-being and competitiveness. In next year's budget, the Government proposes EUR 198.8 million for the Ministry of the Environment's administrative sector. It is 5 million less than in the current year's budget. The remainder includes 22 million appropriations for renovation grants, which in the current year were financed by the State Housing Fund outside the budget. Therefore, the comparable amount is in fact around 27 million lower than in that current year's budget, so the Ministry of the Environment's administrative sector bears a heavy responsibility for these austerity measures, which affect all sectors of government. Environmental and nature conservation expenditure is proposed at EUR 103.5 million, EUR 28 million for the use, housing, construction, and EUR 67.2 for operating expenditure in the administrative sector, and also includes the financing of a number of studies for decision-making. A further EUR 200 million is estimated to be spent on housing subsidies and interest subsidies from the State Housing Fund outside the budget. The State Housing Fund will provide the budget with 47 million. Here are a few major sums from that administration. For funding key projects aimed at implementing the Government's strategic objectives, I have just mentioned: EUR 4 million to increase protection and recycling of the Baltic Sea and water, EUR 800000 to prepare regulation for recycling and circular economy, EUR 0.5 million to start preparing for the creation of a new national park, EUR 1.3 million to renovate contaminated land areas and pilot programmes for land recycling. As regards the natural environment, the nutrient recycling programme will continue to reduce the load on the Baltic Sea and improve the state of the Archipelago Sea. The inventory of underwater marine biodiversity will also continue. The implementation of the Forest Biodiversity Programme in Southern Finland and the implementation of the Natura 2000 network and the previously decided nature conservation programmes will continue. In 2016, approximately EUR 18.5 million will be available for the purchase and replacement of new nature reserves, which is very much less than in the past. In addition, the conservation measures for areas already established or acquired as nature conservation areas will be completed with a one-off allocation of 8 million. The protection of endangered species and habitats will continue with the same investment of around EUR 2.4 million as in the current year. An additional contribution of EUR 500000 will be allocated to the response capacity of oil-fighting vessels. The renovation of the marine exploration vessel Aranda will begin. On the housing and construction side, some picks: In accordance with the Government Programme, the Ministry of the Environment implements a number of measures to streamline planning and construction to facilitate and accelerate construction and reduce construction costs. The first reforms are already underway, and proposals for these are expected for Parliament. A few examples: The procedure for establishing the regional formulas and common general formulas will be abolished at the Ministry of the Environment and will be transferred to the provincial councils, the provincial federations, for decision. In order to reform the Land Use and Building Act last week, I set up a working group to prepare a proposal for the reform of the Land Use and Building Act by next summer, in accordance with the Government Programme guidelines. The aim is to streamline in-fill construction and change the use of buildings, to facilitate diffuse construction, to reduce the steering of the location of large retail entities and to transform the role of ely centres in planning and construction into advisory services. State-subsidised housing construction will be promoted through a number of legislative changes, which can probably be discussed in more detail in the course of the debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to have a debate until 1.30 p.m., because the plenary session will then be suspended due to a large committee meeting. But now those Members who wish to comment or ask about Mr Tiilikainen's presentation are asked to reserve 1 minute's speech by pressing the V button, i.e. to start the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u8	Mr President! Development cooperation and nature conservation appear to be on the government's special discipline list, as these are the main cuts in the budget. In relative terms, the acquisition of natural protection areas is subject to even greater cuts than development cooperation. This is strange and wrong for many reasons. One reason is that the Metso programme is one of the few nature conservation programmes that landowners have been satisfied with. Among other things, this drastic cut in the acquisition of nature reserves is now very much targeted at Metso's programme. Secondly, the government emphasises the bioeconomy, wants to increase forest felling. In order to achieve this in a sustainable way, it is vital to strike a balance between biodiversity, conservation and the economic exploitation of forests, and that is something that the government is now seriously putting at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u9	Mr President! I, too, am very concerned about the level of environmental protection and the levels of spending on nature conservation areas, which the government is proposing. It is a real shame that as good as the bioeconomy as the government's top project now threatens to remain such a black cloud if the Metso programme cannot be implemented at a sufficient level in the next budget. A balance must be struck between the use of forests and the protection of forests and nature conservation. We have a good instrument here, it has not been very expensive, and now the government should really think that the instruments that we have available for environmental and nature conservation would be used in such a way that adequate funding would also exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u10	Värderade fru talman! Yesterday we read that 28 million cubic metres have been dredged during the construction of the port of Bronka, 165 times more than in the construction of the Nord Stream pipeline. How is it possible that this was not known to the State, and what does the Ministry intend to do to ensure better communication between Finland and Russia in these environmental matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u11	Madam President! I fully agree with the other representatives here on this very large amount of cutbacks, which are also selectively targeted at our nature conservation. Almost 62% of nature conservation is cut, and that is an enormous amount. These funds have taken care of biodiversity, and we know how important nature is to us Finns. The main projects include water protection, which is of course very important, but 4.4 million less is spent on protecting our water resources than last year. Can you tell us, Minister, what is the basis of this leading project?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u12	Mr President! The Baltic Sea is one of the most vulnerable in the world and one of the most polluted in the world, and they want to work hard on it. The share of this work for the Baltic Sea in the budget is fragmented for both ministries and also for key projects. I would like to ask the Minister: is it possible to have such a composition, an opening on how much the government invests in the Baltic Sea work through key projects and, above all, through the budgets of the ministries?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u13	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that we currently have a very wide and diverse network of conservation programmes, and above all for the fact that we have a very good conservation of Finnish nature by different-looking legislation. For example, the new forest law, which came into force, and many other laws make it possible for us forest owners to have a large number of their own protected areas that do not have to be paid by the state in any way. For example, we have a great deal of protection under the legislation already in force. But now it sounds like we're worried that we're not going to spend as much money on the Metso programme and on your phone protection anymore. But I ask the Minister now: how have you taken into account how many so-called non-official protected areas and protected sites we already have without the need for more money to protect them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u14	I will give two more speeches and then a reply to the Minister because we are going to have to interrupt, and these two people are Mr Mattila and Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u15	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. — Although it is said here that the bioeconomy is threatening to remain a black cloud, I do not see that as such, but I think that all the different colors of the bioeconomy glow beautifully. There is no environmental protection law to be abolished here, no climate law, and last season new natural sites were added to the forest law, which are protected through it, and forest owners have alternative methods for different logging practices — the principle of continuous farming — which, in my opinion, do not mean any particular cutting of the forest, which has also been proposed here, but if we are going to refine those high-value products, that tree must first be cut down. But the minister also told me that we are about to set up a national park. Does the Minister already have a comparison of the various possibilities where this national park could be set up?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u16	I will make a change: Li Andersson will have the floor before this is over, because now the Left Alliance would have missed the floor and many Members might have to leave on a break. So, Mr Niinistö and Mr Andersson, but then we go to the Minister's answer and then we go to the big committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u17	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen, you are considered to be a reasonable and environmentally conscious man, but the work is rather hard. You have a lot of money taken away from nature conservation and the protection of the seas and swamps, and you look rather weak there on the stake side. I would also like you to give me answers to that, like many others here, what happens to replace Finland's natural environment. But I am particularly concerned about the news of recent weeks about Finland's international role in environmental negotiations and saving the world's environment and achieving a climate agreement. The information that came from Finland cutting climate and environmental funding quite hard within development cooperation funds was a blow to Finland's international work. We have consistently defended the role of UN Environment Agency Unep. Minister Lehtomäki was in his time proposing to strengthen Unepi. As a minister, I myself managed to bring it through as a negotiator at EU and UN level. How can you, Minister, now be sure,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u18	Madam President! Thank you for the floor. — This government intends to limit student housing and also youth housing away from the investment grant for special groups as part of this government housing policy package. That will significantly weaken the economic situation of young people already in a very difficult economic situation, and since this form of support has been very important for this housing production, it is estimated that it may even completely halt the production of new dwellings and certainly raise the rent level. I would now like to ask the Minister why the government intends to abolish this form of support, which is proven to be very effective and important, and how you intend to ensure that young people will continue to have sufficient affordable housing available in all major growth centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u19	Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes, and we'll pick it up later. - That place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u20	Madam President! Always ready, no matter where. — In this respect, several representatives raised concerns about the reductions in nature conservation funding, in particular the Metso programme. Of course, I share the same concern because I happen to be the minister who once closed the Metso programme and created a financial plan and a long-term goal for it. Now, however, there is no point in seeing such a boogeyman here either. This Metso operating model, which enjoys the support of environmental organisations, forest owners and the forest industry, will not disappear, and the number of protected areas will also increase with these scarce resources next year. So the number of protected areas is not decreasing, but is increasing, although the rate of reproduction is slowing down. This is where Mr Adlercreutz asked about this port of Bronka. In fact, the construction work started in 2011 and it has in any case been dealt with regularly in connection with the Baltic Sea Day of Helcom, and we have, for example, the Finnish Environment Agency and similar authorities from other parts of the Gulf of Finland, including Russia, exchanged these research and measurement results. Fortunately, so far the results of the measurements have not been very alarming, although the most recent ones are missing, but those construction works are also beginning to be completed for the time being. The ships are already operating there, and this autumn should be the end. This will be raised next week at the meeting in Helcom, which will be the subject of reporting dredgings and spills from different countries, and I myself will also turn to the Russian Minister for Natural Resources on this matter. There was concern about the Baltic Sea anyway. In short, I would like to summarise the fact that achieving the good state of the Baltic Sea is a major goal for the government. What we are going to do even better than before is to jump both to improve the recycling of agricultural nutrients and to gain better benefit and control of nutrient loads in communities. Water protection plans are progressing. National parks. There are some options, and officials are working on preparatory and comparative work. I look forward to it. In this international role, which Mr Niinistö raised, it is quite true what you have said. Finland has played a very important role in Sleep. Activities have been funded and speaking powers have also been used to direct the activities of Unep.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u21	The case shall be suspended. The plenary session will also be suspended because of the meeting of the large committee and will continue at 3:45 p.m., when we will still have a minister. The brick guy's here with him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u22	The plenary session adjourned at 1.30 p.m. today will continue. First of all, we will take the answers that have been asked for earlier, and then we will give the Minister time to reply. We have half an hour in use for this sector of the Ministry of the Environment, and then we move to the sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry at about 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u23	Mr President! The money for climate policy is mainly outside the section of the Ministry of the Environment, but I would like to point out that in December of this year in Paris there is a crucial meeting, not just for Finland but for the future of all mankind, where the next international climate agreement should be completed. According to many estimates, funding, support for developing countries to finance climate action, could become a threshold for these negotiations. Now, however, the government has decided to cut not only development cooperation money drastically, but also the use of previous auction revenues to finance climate action in developing countries and, at the same time, as Mr Niinistö pointed out earlier, to remove the general funding from Unep. I must say that I am rather appalled at the fact that at such a crucial time for all mankind, economic decisions are being taken in exactly the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u24	Madam President! I would like to ask you a few questions about what Mr Hassi has said. EUR 88 million was spent on climate finance this year. When the spending limits are also cut very much, I am interested to know how Finland assumes responsibility for funding in connection with the Paris climate conference. The second point I would like to ask in connection with the previous presentation, above all on the streamlining of construction: Currently, the Land Use and Construction Act is being amended. My question is: why is it being changed so that the powers currently conferred on the Ely Centre are transferred to the municipalities? How do you respond to people's concern that beaches are being built full and that car markets appear like mushrooms in the rain? I wonder if you feel that it has been difficult to build a decentralized structure so far when this reform is about to take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u25	Madam President! The construction sector employs a very large number of Finns, both directly and indirectly. It is therefore good that the Ministry of the Environment has started to dismantle standards and regulations and facilitate construction throughout Finland. In fact, more and more decision-making powers should be transferred to the provinces and municipalities, where the most important thing is to know what is needed in that region. It is also good that overall efforts are being made to reduce construction costs. I hope that attention will also be paid to the construction of shelters, to the reduction of them and to many others. For example, moving to permanent residence in leisure accommodation must be made smoother and decisions can be taken in municipalities. I also hope that the blocked situation in the areas of planning needs will be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u26	Mr President! I am pleased to welcome the Minister's activity on this very point that the strengthening of the formulas will be removed from the Ministry of the Environment and transferred to municipalities and regions. I think this is a very good development and, as Mrs Torniainen said, it will certainly have beneficial effects on employment and economic activity. It is certain that this is a project that in some places it may be difficult to carry it out, and there may be some unexpected setbacks, so I hope that the Minister will have time and a close eye on this matter, so that it can be steered to the finish line so that it will not be possible at some point for certain formalities. I believe and trust that this is progressing well. I would also like to ask the Minister about this reform of the Energy Certificates Act and what is planned for it now, when the preliminary information on the proposal under preparation suggests that the changes decided on by this citizens' initiative and Parliament would not be made to it, for example in the area of electric heating. For example, is electricity produced with solar panels as sinful as nuclear electricity in heating housing in the future and so on? To this I would like clarification and clarification and I would like that project reform to proceed in accordance with the wishes of the previous Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u27	Madam Speaker! It is absolutely excellent that the government and our combined minister have taken a strong stance in the bioeconomy and in clean technology, in promoting them. This is a very great opportunity for Finland, a very great opportunity, and that is something we cannot afford to lose. I completely disagree when it comes to the fact that the bioeconomy is in some way a black cloud for Finland. I do not understand such a speech at all, but quite the opposite, quite the opposite. Nature is of the utmost importance to us all, and a healthy nature is a fundamental prerequisite for the development of the bioeconomy. It is simply like this. But the way it's been handled so far hasn't been the best. That is why the combination of the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry brings coherence to the approach that one promotes and the other hinders what has been the previous model. Now we both do. And this is what we've been missing. It's obvious this way. So there has been consistency, and that is what I want with great pleasure to greet and make good luck and success.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u28	Madam President! The Finnish Association of Agricultural and Forestry Producers (MTK), Metsäteollisuus ry, the Finnish Nature Conservation Association and a few other organisations have shared their concerns about Metso's voluntary programme. I shall return a little now to what was discussed earlier this afternoon. This Metso programme has significantly increased the acceptability of nature conservation in terms of forests and also cooperation between different forest actors and nature conservation organisations. With the growth of the bioeconomy, this use of forests will, of course, continue to be considerably more efficient, and there will be resources to do so. At the same time, however, when we are aware of this reduction in Metso appropriations from 6 to 3 million, i.e. halves, and then the issue that I raised just yesterday, namely the organisational reform of Metsähallitus, which, according to many very public information, gives us some cause to be concerned about our national assets, I would like to point out now how we are now securing the multifunctional values of forests as a whole, ecosystem services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u29	Madam President! Before the break, representatives Satu Hassi and Riitta Myller were concerned about what would happen to Finnish forests and nature conservation. It must be remembered that Finland's forests are the most protected by the European Union, that is to say, Finland has done a great job here, and I do not understand the logic of the honourable representatives that logging forests would be some kind of deforestation. Finland has the best forestry in the world, we know these forestry issues. And this is your demand for an excessive, continuous increase in protection with taxpayers' money that is too expensive for the state. Anyway, we know how to do these things. The second thing I would also like to say is that I would like to thank Mr Tiilikainen very much for having courageously left to dismantle this bureaucracy. The transfer of regional plans to the provincial councils is a very wise solution. And then we must also ensure that the authorisation of building permits is transferred to the municipalities. This is a waste of bureaucracy. The same building permit may have stood for dozens of times because of complaints, as has been the case in my municipality of Ilomants — absolutely unnecessary bureaucracy to try to prevent the construction of rural areas and to ensure the depopulation of rural areas. On what timetable, Minister, are these matters relating to patterns and construction permits going forward in your ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u30	Mr President! First of all, I regret the fact that for some time the large committee and the plenary were on top of each other. In this context, I would like to say that the Social Democrats believe that there is a very good chance of combining protection and the objectives of the bioeconomy to create jobs. But that is precisely what we also need this money for protection programmes. As we increase the use of forests, we must ensure that biodiversity is preserved at the same time. There is no contradiction between these, but those black clouds may come if this protection is not maintained. Mr President! It is also very important that we do not go behind these standards to do things that may then have adverse effects on the environment. I hope that, when this dismantling of standards is carried out, it will genuinely be done in such a way as to dismantle the standards that are fundamentally detrimental to action, but not at the same time weaken the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u31	Congressman Mykkänen, there was an emergency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u32	It's not so much an emergency for me, but it's an emergency for the country, because standards are so difficult. It is unreasonable, for example, to set up a windmill that lasts for six months physically, five and a half years can well take the permit process. Yes, Mr Myller, I would very much believe that it is precisely the introduction of environmentally friendly technology on farms, in forestry and in industry that requires the dismantling of standards. But I am also looking forward to the shadow budget for the demars, when today there are worrying cuts in protection money, which is understandable, there were concerns about the cuts in development aid last night, bus charges have been abolished — in the demars budget — the rail tax has been abolished, the cuts in Tekes have been cancelled. Apparently, there will be a rather large tax increase package when the debt was promised to be paid off faster than what the government is doing. But I would actually ask the Minister that, when the Government Programme seeks to halve the use of imported oil by 2030 — which is mainly Minister Rehn's tragedy, and that is a good one, but in the case of oil heating in buildings, your concern in the Ministry of the Environment — there are currently no subsidies for energy changes that could be used to move away from oil heating. Is there any other way we could use...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u33	Congressman Myller had an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u34	Mr President! I would also like to have a debate on housing policy. Is it now completely closed? [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Full time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u39	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking action very quickly on the matter of deregulation. First of all, there are two proposals that speed up the planning process already this autumn coming to Parliament, and next year we are going to liberalise small-scale yard construction and also the introduction of renewable energy equipment. We have a lot of leisure homes in South Savo, and the stays there are long. My question is: what is the timetable for the conversion of leisure homes into permanent residences? I am delighted that the Government Programme provides a guideline for the promotion of wood construction. My second question to the Minister is: what measures are to be taken to promote wood construction?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u40	Madam President! I would have asked Minister Tiilikainen one more thing: I understand that perfectly well, and I am in favour of bioeconomy in many respects, and I also understand that 15 million cubic metres a year will be added to forest fellings. But when it comes to cutting off half the purchase money for nature conservation areas, how can biodiversity be safeguarded in the future? What steps are you taking to achieve this? Above all, the National Agency for Nature Services under Metsähallitus and its capacity to operate — what are we going to do about it? One of the things that happened at the Rutovuori in Keuruu was that they cut off 220-year-old pine, and at the same time they take such old decay wood into the energy boiler, which gives the minimum benefit but the maximum damage. How can such excesses and misuse of tax resources be prevented?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u41	Mr President! Firstly, I agree with all the thanks that have been given to the Minister on this subject. But then perhaps a bit of a cryptic question: the Minister has made an excellent commitment to making construction and planning easier and more flexible, but is it the same for the whole Ministry of the Environment? Is the whole ministry committed to making construction and planning, for example in sparsely populated areas, really easier? Another question about this conservation activity: in general, protection takes place in such a way that a species is included in the protection, but is it possible to think that it could also be done the other way round? In other words, if it is found that this need for protection has clearly been removed, a species would be taken out of the protection — and I am referring here to the union squirrel, because it is very common and unquestionably stated that its protection is already unnecessary. Is it possible to go downhill too?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u42	Mr President! In this respect, several colleagues have thanked these deregulations and the government's intention to limit the right of appeal in the form of formulas. It may be that there are some points where it makes sense, but I think it is absolutely essential that regional environmental centres and then ely centres have had the opportunity to appeal if the municipalities adopt an illegal formula. Now that the government is going to restrict itself to the right of appeal only for its neighbours, how is it going to ensure that acceptable formulas comply with the objectives and criteria set out in the laws? Are we really left to the immediate neighbours of various building and zoning projects to know the legislation so well that they can defend not only the comfort of their own living environment, but also all the objectives we have set here in Parliament for the legislation on construction and zoning?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u43	Madam President! A representative from a hundred municipalities is talking about Satakunta and wants to ask whether financial resources have been earmarked for the task force which is beginning to look at how this stock management plan can be reformed to work faster than what the Minister said at the first stage that it would not be completed until next summer? The Satakunta people are waiting for very rapid measures in Merikarvia, the strain has increased enormously precisely in Merikarvia, when it has slightly degressed on the rest of the west coast, and now it is coming to the area where it is actually showing itself: the cormorants are eating fish and, of course, after eating food, they are doing their natural needs, but now it has turned into eating elsewhere in the shallow bay area, and they are doing their needs there, which is now beginning to be harmful to the environment. Are there resources available to enable this working group to carry out its work more quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u44	Madam President! Mr Myller raised quite a number of concerns about the need to guarantee the adequacy of affordable rental housing, and in that sense my question concerns the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment is currently preparing rules on the choice of residents of Ara dwellings. A legal amendment would allow every asylum seeker, regardless of the duration of the residence permit, to be entitled to apply for state-subsidised rental housing. This would eliminate a previous year’s residence permit requirement. I would like to ask the Minister: knowing that there are thousands of homeless people in municipal housing queues who have been waiting for an apartment for years, how has this concern been taken into account in the ministry in order not to be overtaken in this housing line, for their interests must also be taken into account in this drafting of the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u45	I now turn to Mr Ala-Nissila and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for five minutes. Before the break, you had to give a brief speech and you will now have five minutes to answer these questions. Then, if necessary, a few questions relating to this area of the Ministry of the Environment will be taken up and then moved to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u46	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Firstly, as far as housing is concerned, there is a really big problem with the cost of this housing, especially in the capital region, and I think that this will not be corrected by means of subsidies; on the contrary, it may be that the various subsidies are capitalised on prices. I think that in Finland we should sort out all this housing support and look at it as a whole, and really this is a concentration problem and other problems. We're about to create a certain bubble in these parts. Then, Madam President, I must say so much about wolves, although I know it belongs to both of these main categories, that there is a great deal of concern about these agglomerations in the south-west of Finland and that there is a real need for a controlled reduction in the position and, in fact, perhaps a modification of the regulations, and I do not think that this is in any way an anti-natural position.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u47	And then Minister Tiilikainen, please, five minutes. You can speak from the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Well, here's some really good questions for the battery. I would like to thank you in general. If I try to unload as much as I can. I will start with these climate-related issues, which were raised first of all. Indeed, Finland is seeking that ambitious agreement in Paris. With its own decisions, the Government has already announced that the climate targets for 2020 will be achieved a little early during this parliamentary term. EU emissions trading: the Commission's proposal, that is what we support. But the question of this funding: Of course, we are trying to stick to the commitments made, even though the economic situation is difficult. We have no chance of leaving before 2020 for any tours of tension in the nests of some other countries. But on the other hand, it is good to understand that the money of the taxpayers of any nation will not be enough to stop climate change, but will be enough. The main concern and contribution to the financing of the Paris Agreement is the need to obtain an agreement whereby private investors withdraw their investments from fossil sources and dare to invest in clean technology. It can turn this thing around, and that is, of course, the way it works here in Finland. The second concern still relates to this diversity of forests. At the same time as efforts are being made to increase the use of wood, what about diversity? Of course, the Forest Act is in force, which means that economic forests are operated under the Forest Act, saving valuable natural sites. In fact, the revised Forest Law even offers some forest owners new opportunities for softer handling methods. Certification guarantees a certain level of forest management that is even better than the law. And Metso is, of course, a very important tool for voluntarily increasing forest protection, and even though this appropriation has fallen, it is excellent that Metso's operating method continues with that scarce budget. So the amount of protection is increasing, that is, even though trees are growing, they are used more than growth, and at the same time the amount of protection can be increased. So this balance is good. Many representatives spoke of standards both with thanks and with suspicion. Thank you for your thanks — I would like to express my doubts about the fact that the dismantling of standards is precisely about ensuring that the level of protection of the environment and human health is guaranteed, but it is done with minimal flexibilities and bureaucracy. As far as this complaint is concerned, it is a fundamental right in democracy to complain. It is also part of this Chamber, as we all know, and it is obvious that the decision-makers must be able to question and answer in a democracy. But in how long and how long and who are entitled to complain, these lines of the border
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u53	There are still a few questions about this area of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u54	Madam President! I would have further clarified the form the Minister considers to be so difficult at the moment, because this is largely the basis for this current change in the law on land use and construction. This is what I wanted to ask you. As many people are concerned that the beaches are now being built full and car markets appear like mushrooms in the rain, in a way these questions, which come from a lot of citizens, I would be happy to hear the Minister's position too. The second point is that, during the last parliamentary term, when there was already a good agreement with landowners as well as with nature conservation, the law on the protection of bogs, the supplementary law, but it was unfortunately rejected, how does the law on the protection of bogs proceed during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u55	Mr President! I agree with the Minister that any increase in the volume of construction is good, and in the long term, if it is successful, that is the best way to keep the price of living under control. But what is currently setting the question marks is that this Ara production, the conditions for its construction, is being undermined in the use of rented dwellings. On the other hand, there is an increase in market-based construction, possibly for a short period of time, and yet it is not likely that these volumes will be raised terribly quickly, we must also have the means to keep the rent level lower than market-based, and especially when I understand that we cannot afford to raise housing subsidies terribly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u56	I will give three more replies, and then the Minister's brief answer. Representative Niikko, representative Torniainen and representative Korhonen, and then we move to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The same minister is here, so you can ask about these things as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u57	Honored Speaker! I would like to come back to this question — the Minister's time was not enough to answer this question about Ara housing. We know that there are approximately 7,000 homeless people in Finland, and in addition to that, we now have a change in the government to support pensioners' housing, which also increases the pressure on pensioners to find cheaper housing. And now, if this requirement for a one-year residence permit is removed from asylum seekers, there will of course be a lot of people in the housing queues, because today I just heard that there will be as many as 50,000 asylum seekers in Finland this year. In that sense, this is an extremely important issue. Is it in any way possible to check this change in the Ara housing rules in this regard that these persons who have been waiting for housing for years should also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u58	Mr President! Representative Myller brought up the construction of affordable housing. This is a very important issue and I hope that this issue can also be taken forward by all means. We must remember that the cost of construction consists of a great many elements. It is influenced, among other things, by design and materials used. The costs come to a large extent also from land supply, formula regulations and so on. Of course, the overall cost of work in construction also has a considerable impact. I sincerely hope that the Minister will help to streamline, for example, the construction of buildings and changes in the use of buildings. This would be particularly important in urban centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u59	Madam President! For Finland, it is extremely important to influence the EU. During the last parliamentary term, the fact that Finland’s pre-emptive influence on decision-making at EU level was very limited has emerged a great many times in this house. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, we in a few committees have had to pay too much attention to the fact that the Ministry of the Environment was not committed to a unified national influence. Very often it was found that cooperation between ministries on EU influence simply does not work, and often the eyes were directed specifically at the Ministry of the Environment. I do not believe, Minister, that such a problem will arise during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u60	The next item is the reply by Minister Tiilikainen. He can spend 3 minutes and then present the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u61	Mr President! I shall start with this housing — I regret that I did not have time to deal with all the questions just now. Now, as a rule, the housing policy guidelines of the government programme are being pushed forward without compromising, but of course this increase in immigration will have an impact. In the long term, it affects the need for housing, and it also affects how people can be shown housing. In that sense, all these factors, to which reference has been made, must be looked at. Fortunately, we also have a lot of empty rental housing that can be traced back to. Before long, of course, all people, whatever their origins, have the right to choose their own apartment in Finland. The aim is to promote this affordable housing by increasing the number of operators of general interest by moving to the targeted examination. The ten-year midterm model is in preparation. This perspective taken by Mrs Torniainen on the potential for change of use is a really important tool in many urban areas, which is much faster than the acquisition, zoning and so on of a new country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u68	Let us now go to the next point, namely the presentation of the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Here you go, Minister Tiilikainen. Then I'll start the debat, and then you can ask. An hour is spent on this whole of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u69	Mr President! The share of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the state budget has been built on the guidelines of the Government Programme. A key priority is the promotion of the bioeconomy, and in this work, of course, the role of the agriculture and forestry miner is also central. We now need new growth, and we will boost growth by making a significant contribution to funding key projects. In order to strengthen the profitable growth and competitiveness of agriculture, 90 million will be transferred to the Agricultural Development Fund during the Government's term of office, which will amount to 14 million next year. This will enable agricultural investment to take place. In addition to structural support, the conditions for the competitiveness of agriculture are also strongly supported by support for farmers and through research and advice. The strongest impact on farmers' income levels and profitability of production is through direct EU payments, compensatory payments for natural handicaps and national payments for agriculture and horticulture. About half of the farmers are included in this new rural programme. The rural programme is a broad and diverse set of rural development measures; in addition to farm development, it promotes the vitality of rural areas and strengthens diverse small-business and community activities in rural areas. In line with the Government Programme, we are also stepping up efforts to balance food exports and the trade balance of foodstuffs. In the 2016 budget, efforts have been made to promote food exports and increase the competence of operators through the leading Finnish food production project. Food safety and quality are important strengths of Finnish food. The maintenance of a good situation is maintained by means of regulatory guidance, advice, self-monitoring and risk-based regulatory oversight. At the same time, unnecessary regulation and bureaucracy of the industry will be dismantled and this work will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the industry and the food industry. Mr President! Forestry is an important figure, and as part of the leading projects, we will develop the use of forest resource data and electronic services for forest owners and operators next year. EUR 4 million will be spent on this next year. The support system for the financing of sustainable forestry is being reformed. The funds there will be reduced in line with the austerity plans of the Government Programme, but they will be directed in such a way as to preserve the early care of the seedling, and also towards the rehabilitation of the young forest, even though the support levels will decrease, more efforts will then be made to allocate the money to the energy trees there. EUR 3 million is available for the Metso programme in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and measures are available in approximately 2000 hectares. As far as game and fisheries are concerned, the government will also make the blue bioeconomy one of the leading projects. In other words, the blue bioeconomy is that the possibilities of water for fishing, fish farming and other water activities are also included in plans and studies, i.e. the expansion of business in that area is also the objective. In order to revitalise migratory and endangered fish stocks, measures will be targeted at selected pilot sites from the top of the strategy. It is also one of the government's top projects. The work will also take into account the needs for other uses and management of water bodies, such as good water status objectives, flood and drought risk management, recreational and tourism use and renewable energy. The new Fisheries Act will enter into force on 1 January 2016 and its most important amendment is the combination of the management fee and the fishing fee into a single national fisheries management fee that entitles the whole country to fishing for lures, with the exception of specific destinations. The allocation for the compensation of damage caused by predators will increase by EUR 3.7 million in order to allow full compensation for the damage caused by predators. This increase will make it possible to ensure that compensation is no longer subject to additional appropriations in the amending budget, so we believe. Two separate questions: The merger of Otso is not yet included in the draft budget, but the bill is being brought to Parliament this autumn. The Otso is therefore transferred to the ownership steering unit of the Prime Minister's Office, and the necessary measures will be completed in such a way as to enable Otso to be incorporated on 1 July 2016. But the bill is really coming in the fall. The amendment of Metsähallitus legislation is also to be submitted to Parliament in the autumn, and the changes it brings to the state budget proposal will be introduced in connection with the completion of the draft budget. — Here, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u70	Thank you, Minister. — I would now ask those representatives who wish to comment on the draft budget for the sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to reserve one minute’s speaking time with a V button. These speeches begin first with the speeches made by the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and the first is by Mr Leppä, the chairman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u71	Madam Speaker! Agriculture and forestry play a key role in the Government's objectives of promoting the bioeconomy and is essential. It is also in how we can improve Finland's trade and current account deficits, and also in how we can respond positively to climate and environmental impacts. This is an extremely important challenge for this sector, and it is also an opportunity. The problem now is, of course, the profitability of agriculture, not only profitability, but also the weakness of liquidity on farms. In that sense, it is extremely good that Mr Tiilikainen has provided both the amending budget and also the funds that have come out of that debate with the European Commission and which are now being used quickly for this work and which have also provided a significant opportunity to bring forward agricultural subsidies, and it must be able to make full use of the administration. These will significantly facilitate the liquidity of the premises. Finally, President-in-Office, agricultural investment is about one billion a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u72	Madam President! First of all, as Mr Leppä said, the profitability and liquidity situation in agriculture is extremely worrying. If I bring in a few numbers this year, 2015, there will be about 400 million market revenues that will not be received if we compare 2012 and 2013, and in addition, EUR 150 to 200 million will be transferred to next year, and this will, of course, cause that problem. To be honest, this is neither the fault of the current government nor the fault of the current minister, but there are other matters that have an impact on this. I see, I have said it in public and I also say it in the Chamber that this government and Minister Tiilikainen see the problems of agriculture and try their best. I have cures, but now my speech is over, and I will return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u74	Madam President! When you didn't get a chance to ask a question just now, you move it a little bit like it's a bend, but it's still good for this. I would like to ask the Minister about the capacity within this government for cross-sectoral reviews. In other words, it is the environment and the housing sector that we are talking about, and we know that there are good projects on the side of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Development to develop the construction of wooden houses. How do you see, as Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, that we need to develop the conditions for the operation of sawmills so that the tariff system there can become more profitable in terms of electricity production, and so that sawmills could also, without hundreds of kilometres of this biomaterial being taken somewhere else to be burned, concentrate on it and improve its own performance, so that it would also serve this objective of wood construction and thus gain more power for this machine — precisely this intersectorality and its readiness?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u75	Madam President! The bioeconomy, whether we are talking about forests, agriculture or more broadly about the whole circular economy, is expected to bring more growth, employment and exports. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this objective is somewhat inappropriately matched by a strong cut in research resources in this area. This applies, among other things, to those who have just gone through a major organisational turmoil. Natural Resources Centre,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u78	Mr President! First of all, I must congratulate Minister Tiilika: your administration is one of the winners of the budget proposal by Juha Sipilä's Government. However, I would like to ask the Minister, now that these investments are being made with common funds, how you intend to ensure that these investments are most effective. We should rightly invest especially in young farmers and active farmers. In what way do you intend to ensure that these investments, investment appropriations, go to the right targets for them, so that they have the greatest impact?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u79	Madam President! The Fisheries Act and the Fisheries Regulation specifying it are still in progress. In the case of net fishing, it is considered a little miraculous that a 240-metre limit on net fishing should be set for the needs of fishermen at home. I think this is unnecessary because there are no fishermen fishing on the net in many lakes today. This same restriction is also boat-specific, that is, if there are three fishermen on board, they have a common limit of 240 meters. There should at least be a change in this. The fact that the Ely Centre can authorise a professional fisherman without permission from a fishing area also sounds rather unusual. If I have a garden and there are carrots, how can someone give permission for someone else to go and get those carrots out of there? I think it's special. The Ely Centre may also grant a fishing guide licence, but only six persons may be present with the fishing guide. Is this not a standard that restricts business activity in vain? If I want to be a fishing guide to mocking, how can I take only six people to ice fishing when I could take ten Russians?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u80	Mr President! Agriculture, farms and farm families have long struggled with the profitability crisis. Low producer prices, increased costs, changes in the frequency of payments and exceptional weather conditions have now triggered an acute cash crisis for many farms and farmers. That is why I agree with the thanks that have been expressed here to Mr Tiilikainen that you were allowed to increase the pre-financing rate for compensatory payments. And especially with joy I greeted the news that the payment of these subsidies would begin next week. This is a very good thing, and it will help to ease this acute situation. This process, too, has, as it were, involved speed and dangerous situations, so I ask: the rural authorities are probably now in control of the process, or is it? And: will there be enough resources in the budget for next year to ensure that aid controls and payments are not postponed next year, at least because of a lack of resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u81	Madam President! Thank you once again to the Minister for these glowing different colors of the bioeconomy and, in particular, for that blue bioeconomy. We also have the opportunity to correct this negative food trade balance. It is the domestic fish local food, unlike Norwegian bag salmon. But on the subject of predatory policy, I would like to reiterate what Mr Ala-Nissilä has said about the problems in Southern Finland. In Northern Finland, it doesn't matter. For us, these contacts have come from citizens who are very much concerned — and I hope that this is how they go to the Minister. And so also on the blue bioeconomy side, greetings that the fishermen of the Bothnian Sea continue to remind us of the seals and the strong growth of the seal stock. But then again, Metsähallitus legislation. This was included in the Government Programme to clarify its management system. I really hope that when this dismantling of red tape standards is cut through the government programme, so too will this law, Metsähallitus law, come in this spirit and we will not get over-regulation, which would by no means serve our forestry policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u82	Mr President! We, in quotes, have two development trends moving in a slightly different direction. Bioeconomy is a big strategic goal in the Government Programme. We have very high expectations for new jobs, especially in the bioeconomy, on the basis of natural resources. But, on the other hand, the concentration of this society is moving in a rather drastic way and has progressed in a very violent way. The reasons are partly political. That, Minister, is the question: what can we do to ensure that these two directions move at the same pace, in a way, this social structure, too, is able to support our big goal of creating a bioeconomy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u83	Madam President! The amount of animal welfare compensation will rise to 67.8 million in next year's budget from the current 65 million. According to the Ministry, the aim is to promote more species-specific management of farmed animals and to raise farmers' awareness of the factors affecting animal welfare. This is a positive thing. At the same time, however, the role of the Animal Protection Ombudsman will be suspended. This, in turn, is a clear weakening. The animal's own agent is needed in Finland in order to advance animal affairs and monitor welfare. I would like to ask the Minister: would it not still be possible to consider abolishing this post, because it is a proactive work to avoid any future negligence?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u84	At this stage, I will give two more speeches before the Minister's reply: Mr Ala-Nissila and Mr Aalto. Then the Minister will answer the questions that have come to us so far, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u85	Madam Speaker! Agriculture and forestry, as Mr Leppä and others have said, are the foundations of the bioeconomy and the foundations of our own food supply. It is good that there is now really more funding for Makera. It is good that payments are being speeded up and that, on the tax side too, there may be some positive developments before long and standards are being dismantled. Now, however, we have been fighting for some help in this acute situation. We have so many problems now on top of each other: There is that situation in Russia that is pushing down the price level throughout Europe, it is bad weather this year, it is usually a market bust. In Varsinais-Suomi, for example, in pig farming, plant production has this profitability crisis, which has been mentioned here. Much has been done here, Mr Minister, but we should do more to remedy the situation there too, in the EU, to fight for the fact that we are really suffering the most from that situation in the Russian trade, which I hope will now be corrected. There are meetings in Ukraine today. What more could we do together?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u86	Madam President! I share Mr Leppa's and Mr Nylund's concerns about the fall in farm incomes and the profitability of the sector as a whole. We have heard, of course, the effects of EU regulations, the effects of Russia, the effects of weather conditions and the effects of the loss of purchasing power. In this situation, as Mrs Myllykoski pointed out, I was thinking about this cross-administrativeity. How could new business opportunities be created for farmers, including through renewable energy? What is your cooperation with Olli Rehn, among other things, in order to make renewable energy, the bioeconomy more and more of them? Secondly, when the situation with Russia is as it is, the search for a new market. Five man-years were added to it in 2015. Is there any further investment in this so that Finnish products will increasingly enter the new market?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u87	And then the minister responds, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u88	President! Many representatives described the critical nature of this profitability and liquidity situation in agriculture, and that is indeed what it is. So all the studies show that this year is really a difficult one. Even on average, it is a good thing that farmers get zero results in crop farms, in meat farms, in other words, they do not receive wages or interest on capital, but eat capital for the year before. The measures that have been taken here are, of course, always limited — in relation to these losses, of course, no crisis package or an early payment of subsidies is sufficient. But we were able to pay higher subsidies from the EU and we were able to implement it – as the first EU country to do so. Two weeks ago, a decision was taken in the EU, and next week, because of these decisions, we will have the opportunity to account for EUR 50 million more for subsidies to farmers. And here, too, Mavi, at this point at the very least, has been quite exemplary. This is still under investigation as to whether some other aid can be brought forward in a similar way. As Mr Nylund described well, this shift in aid is also a problem this year. Then there was concern about these investments, on the one hand, thanks for the capitalisation of Makera and, on the other hand, the question of how to ensure that the money goes efficiently. The most important assurance is that these investment aids always cover only a fraction of the investment and that the majority of the farmers have to claim debt from financial institutions, to use their own capital. Yes, when most of your own money is on fire, everyone in the agricultural sector will certainly think very carefully about where to invest — that is, not to worry about it. With regard to the blue bioeconomy: in fact, it is good to say here — and this goes to this aspect of environmental policy too — that I am very pleased that the rules of the European Fisheries Fund were adopted in such a way as to say whether or not it has been checked that the investment in the fish-meal factory in the Baltic Sea is now under way in Finland. In other words, we can use this Baltic fish to feed our fish and in that way get nutrients out of the sea and such closed cycles. It's an excellent step. The question was then asked about these intersectoral energy opportunities on farms. Representative Myllykoski raised a very important issue, and that is how sawmills keep up with this growth in the bioeconomy in order to make the wood market work. Yes, that support for sawmill energy production, which has not worked now, must be seen in the context of the climate and energy policy update. And by the way, the concern about how farms can be involved in the production of renewable energy is also: the desire of the government is, of course, great to be able to go in this direction even better. Mr Halmemenpää raised this concern about the research budget for the bioeconomy. Indeed, in the case of the Natural Resources Agency, major cutting decisions were taken during the last period, which are now being realised. As far as heart rate is concerned, there are also previous decisions and a little more to come. I have the same concerns. And now it is important that, once these resources have been decoupled from the funding of strategic research, which is part of the reason for these cuts in research institutes, the funding of strategic research is to consider that this bioeconomy, circular economy, clean solutions are precisely the areas of the future in which this research money will then be allocated again. This is a great concern, and I am glad to be heard here. Mr Kulmala raised these details of the fisheries regulation. As you said, the regulation is being prepared and, hopefully, there will still be time to return to it. Representative Mattila: We have already talked a little about fraud policy. It is not enough to have money for compensation, but it must also be a policy of fraud to prevent the damage caused by large predators and, at the same time, to ensure, of course, that the stock is at the desired level and that it is viable. On the reform of the Metsähallitus Act: I am actually happy to come to the various parliamentary groups to elaborate, because it is an extremely large and long-standing package and deserves much deeper consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u89	And then the debate goes on. There are a few more people who have been asked to speak, and more appears to be coming. However, let us now take the order in which we have requested, which means that Mr Hoskonen will now be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u90	Madam President! A few remarks. First of all, it is a very good thing that there is more money coming from Makera, the Rural Development Fund. Between 2005 and 2011, more than 300 million came, and then it was almost zero in the previous period, and now more is available. It is worth remembering that in this country almost one billion people are invested in agriculture every year. It maintains very strong raw material production in the construction industry, various building materials are produced, and agriculture uses them. One paper machine costs roughly the billion, so agriculture is carrying a very strong investment package throughout the decades, year after year. It has a very job-creating effect, and it is all Finnish work. This is something to remember. And another thing, Mr President, is that when we shop today, we make decisions on behalf of Finnish food and Finnish agriculture every day when we buy Finnish food, healthy food. Then we'll know what we're eating. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that more money has been made available for fraud. It is quite right that when great beasts cause damage, the State bears responsibility, once these great beasts have been widely protected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u91	Madam President! In this sector of agriculture and forestry, it is clear that the government's objective of the bioeconomy and of all sustainable development and use of natural resources is clear. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his summer visit to the river Tornio together with a Swedish colleague, and so my question naturally relates to salmon regale, unexpectedly, and how it may still be possible for the Finnish State to exercise such a right of crown, which is hundreds of years old, even in Sweden, when the state no longer has it. What is the situation in salmonregale, and at what point is this study by Juha Jonah, funded by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, going to bring it to the Committee on Agriculture and hence to the debate on the future of salmonregale and its dismantling? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u92	Madam President! Let me ask you a few more questions about forestry. I'm sure the minister knows what happened on Keuruu in Mount Rautou last winter. There Metsähallitus began to chop off as many as 220-year-old forests around the old garrison area and at the same time very rare decay trees were injected into the energy boiler — the maximum destruction, the minimum benefit. And at the same time, the Nature Services Agency restores the forest, strives to make more decayed wood in the forest area, and all these things are kind of like hitting each other's ears. How, among other things, do the financial sector and the Nature Services Agency now communicate better with each other, and how can such excesses be prevented in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u93	Madam Speaker! It can be said that Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Minister for the Environment Mr Tiilikainen has very strongly started his term, and everyone who works with natural resources has welcomed this combination, and I hope that all these fine government records will proceed. I would like to make two points. I am on the same subject as Mr Ala-Nissilä and Mr Mattila. Yes, this predatory problem should be brought under control during this parliamentary term. There is much discussion that perhaps the wild beasts that move in our nature and forests are not all those who belong there. They may be so-called alien species. We talk a lot about hybrid wolves, and it's kind of hot. What are we going to do about this alien issue in the future? My second question then relates to the organisation of the estate. We all know how important it is for the productivity of agriculture to increase agricultural parcels, and I considered in the budget book that the net money would be around 2 million in support of agricultural arrangements in the future. I do feel that it is very inadequate. In order to get young people to continue farming, we need productivity
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u94	Mr President! Cross-administrativeism is an extremely important issue, and one of the manifestations of cross-administrativeism is that we also need the rules of the game, which are modern times, today, for that market too. There are many interpretations of our competition law that are maintained by the competition authority, which simply do not comply with the current market situation. This will require a change, and it is a key issue for Minister Lindström and Minister Tiilikainen, which is also included in the government programme, that it will be put in order that the producer price is not only a residual item but also a fair share for the farmer. And the other thing: in the case of public food supplies, it can no longer be that public food purchases are made here in any other way than in accordance with the standards required of Finnish producers. It's not fair. It's not fair. When we from the state have created standards for Finnish production, they must be the same for the raw material of food imported here and used in the public food service. President! Finally, for a smoother administration: it is extremely important that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u95	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister what I would like to ask. As far as food exports are concerned, we are now in a very difficult situation. I would like money to be found in that budget so that we can launch a name protection campaign of this kind so that we can have more of the good food we have in various parts of Finland made with the same composition so that we can get them to the European market. The EU supports this advertising, the marketing of name-protected products to the world, and we should make a little effort here to get that marketing subsidy money from the EU to ourselves. On another point: it is very good that the Minister agrees to come to the groups to discuss Metsähallitus. Now I ask again: when will it come to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u96	Mr President! I appreciate the Minister's openness to come to parliamentary groups on Metsähallitus law. It raises a lot of concerns, and I hope that you will then not only hear but also get some lunches out of it. It is a very important question for the whole Parliament, this Metsähallitus. President! Two things. Reindeer farming is nothing significant in this budget, about EUR 1.5 million overall, but it is a very controversial issue. I would like to ask the Minister if you have any intention of taking up the reform of the reindeer husbandry law. Now that this old nomadic industry has expanded even to urban areas, it stirs up many contradictions when reindeer reward people’s courtyards and roads. In order to avoid these conflicts, it would probably be appropriate to update the legislation. I would also like to draw attention, President, to the financing of the 4H organisation in Finland. Once again, there are cuts in the budget for 4H youth work, and this time, unfortunately, the biggest cuts ever, EUR 857000. I wish the Minister could change that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u97	Madam President! In the last speech, Minister Tiilikainen quite rightly said that in practice it is absolutely impossible to compensate for the loss of agriculture with the state budget. But there is one way that works very quickly, in my opinion, and Mrs Leppä raised it. It is precisely public food procurement, I think it is several hundred million a year, even more than 400 million. And if the state and also the municipalities set the same quality criteria for public food supplies as we demand for our own farmers and the food industry, the price will certainly increase. Of course there will be a certain cost impact, it will be seen in the budget next year at least, but what we are doing now is a double standard. In other words, certain requirements are imposed on Finnish farmers, but then when the state and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u98	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this opportunity to come to the parliamentary groups. I'm sure I'll take this greeting to the Finnish People's Parliament Group. However, I would like to emphasise that, when these state forests are in the north and the northern speciality there is known, know and have long experience of using it, I hope that whatever regulation is now being made, it will bring genuine added value to the state's forests. But then this government programme and the fact that, as I recall, the public sector is now included in that strategic government programme as part of the promotion of the bioeconomy, right? Food production is also a strong part of the bioeconomy. This was also discussed during the last period, and quite easily the ball is thrown into the municipality, that the procurement law already allows, but apparently it is not used. What are the chances? How to involve the public sector even more in the bioeconomy
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u99	Mr President! I agree with the thanks that have already been expressed here, Minister. With regard to the brick, his perkyness is made easier to build and even to regulate agriculture. There are already legislative changes relating to the deregulation of construction regulations coming to the opinion, and I hope that the follow-up will be followed not only by the already known proposals, but also by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Legislation changes, and that's a good thing. But how does the Minister outline it and how does the Government intend to direct the Ely Centres and ensure that interpretations in Ely Centres will match the policies and objectives of the Government and Parliament, and that interpretations in particular will be the same in all Ely Centres across the country? The experience of living life has been in the direction that the fault has so far not always been with legislation, but with interpretations of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u100	Madam President! Of course, we agree very much in this Chamber and also with the Minister, but we do bring a little concern here, I suppose that is the point. I raise one point which has not yet been debated in my ears, which is also related to the profitability of the agricultural sector, but from the point of view that it is precisely in this situation that the survival and resources of the farmers are very tight. That is why I would like to highlight and express my concern about the cuts in farm relief services for farmers. If the President allows, just a little bit for the Ministry of the Environment. When we talked about the blue bioeconomy here — we are talking about clean waters then, we also have those dirty, brown waters — I was struck by the fact that funding for promoting water and environmental protection fell from just over EUR 10 million to just under six. After all, the key element in this is the transfer sewer projects, which are completely out of funding, and I would like to hear a little about it if possible — but I am afraid I am going to have to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u101	Madam President! In some respects, I would have asked when the Kemera funding has been reduced and now you have to make decisions. In this decision-making, I would like you to note that during the previous government, on the basis of the logic of the active farmers, we limited the area payments to less than 3 hectares and now it rose to 5 hectares. Now, if it were ever important, these fields would be afforested rather than deforested. In that sense, I would like to see this large number of hectares now so that they do not just naturally go on growing willows but are afforested that there is enough money there. That would be the new sustainable raw material supply and investment in the bioeconomy, and I really hope that this will be addressed. Finally, I agree with Mr Pelkonen on the suspension of the office of ombudsman. I really hope you find that money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u102	Madam Speaker! Two questions, or perhaps the first is more personal reflection. Incorporation of Otso, which produces and provides forest services: does Finnish forestry need Otso to become an operator in the future from state-owned forests? But then to this single or wide-ranging field of operations, i.e. the Village of Finland. After all, the budget proposal, if I have seen it correctly, cuts the budget resources of Finnish Village Activities by about 60 per cent. However, as a rural activator, village activity is a reasonably significant, good player. Perhaps I will formulate the question in such a way that how the Minister would see or judge how the operating conditions of the Finnish Village activities could be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u103	Mr President! The plight of agriculture and the adequacy of subsidies have given rise to debate and, if I have understood correctly what a few active farmers have been saying to me with some annoyance, some farms are engaged in so-called pseudo-farming. In practice, therefore, these farms do not carry out any out-sale agricultural activity, such as the sale of milk or cereals. Agriculture on these farms may only be carried out to offset EU aid, for example by sowing and reaping the fields, and the yield may not necessarily go anywhere, but may be reaped or ploughed in place. Mr President! In these times of scarcity in particular, it would be necessary to allocate agricultural subsidies to the active farmers who are working to live, and I think that every farm should be able to demonstrate that it has external turnover as a condition for payment of subsidies. I would like to ask the Minister for a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u104	One last speaker has been asked to speak in this debate, and then the Minister will reply. Let’s see if there’s a need to ask a question — and there was an immediate increase. However, we will now give the floor to Mr Viljanen, then the Minister, and then we will see if there is a need. There's a few already.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u105	Mr President! In a few speeches, reference has already been made to the savings made from the Natural Resources Centre. I would like to ask in this connection: does the Government and the Minister have a plan to maintain research competence in Finland in the event that savings have to be allocated to such activities, which are perhaps the only ones in their field in Finland, so that this activity can continue, even by a private operator, so that the state would sell production facilities to a private operator, so that research activities, for example, can continue? I know a very good and close example of this: Vihti Vakola is carrying out certification of agricultural machinery so that Finnish machines can be accepted throughout the EU. If this activity were to end now in Vakola, there would be no operator in Finland who could provide a quality guarantee and certification that meets the EU criteria, and that would be a very heavy blow to the Finnish agricultural machinery and equipment industry. The concern here is, of course, that we hope that this activity will continue to be maintained by the State,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u106	Next, Minister, and reply time is 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u107	Mr President! In the past, Mr Pelkonen and other representatives raised this animal protection agent, Mrs Tuppurainen, who spoke about 4H, Mrs Korhonen's village activities, and many of these other savings you have quite rightly found in the budget, and they tell us precisely that when you have to save, then there is really no untouched spot. If Parliament has the opportunity to add to any of these purposes, I am certainly not opposed to it. In the past, Mrs Korhonen was thinking about this relationship between the bioeconomy and the social fabric, and I did not have time to answer it at the time, but this is an important question. What's the bioeconomy? It's about learning away from the fossil economy. And the logic of the fossil economy is the logic of concentration, where energy production, industry, housing, services and so on are put away in a bundle of fossil energy, and the economy is spinning. The logic of the bioeconomy is in decentralised production, because energy and raw materials are widely produced across the board, and it would play a prominent role in this social policy and community structure. In fact, concentration and the bioeconomy are not very good at sitting together. That's an important point. Many representatives raised this issue in terms of exports and imports and the possibility of using Finnish food in public finances. Indeed, there are some small increases in export inputs, and it is important to note that when Finland leaves the EU market, it is quite often their own bureaucratic food safety system in those countries and that we companies must be able to show that the Finnish food that we think is about the best in the world meets the conditions of the country in which it is traded, and here we have to do a little exercise to ensure that we have the right propus on our way, regardless of where we go to the food trade. Efforts are being made to improve this service. But the same applies to this import business and the possibility of correcting the trade balance in such a way that imports in public kitchens would be replaced by domestic imports. These were extremely important comments: if, for example, in the name of animal welfare and environmental protection, we require a high standard for Finnish production, then, when the public sector is bidding for these purchases, we should require that Finnish standards must be met, regardless of the country. That is exactly what is required of us on this export market outside the EU. Representative My corner inquired about this salmon regale, and so much on that country’s famous trip to the Tornio River I learned — with the neighbor’s minister there — that this is an extremely long and complex matter, and so I do not yet promise a solution. But, ladies and gentlemen, the same applies to this arrangement: when you have to save, you have to save. Name protection issues relate to this strengthening of exports. The Reindeer Economics Act: now it is better that I do not say anything about that timetable yet, how the reform is going. Mr Korhonen then raised the question of whether a state company is needed here in the forestry sector. Now that Otso's activities are largely related to the construction of forest roads, the refurbishment of peatland forests, which they have in their long history. The market shows its time, which is Otso's chance and whether other players will be on the same cake. But now, in any case, the activity is of a high standard and there are the prerequisites for starting it with a company. The representative, Mr Savio, raised the concern of farmers: when it is tough, how could subsidies be targeted at active farmers? For example, this new environmental compensation, launched last spring, may have led to a surprising number of farmers doing good environmental work in themselves, but at the same time it is, as it were, out of support for active farming, and this concern must also be taken seriously at EU level when the next reform of EU agricultural policy is already being prepared in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, at least one more debate has been requested. Does anyone else need to ask now? While Mrs Myllykoski asks a question or comments, others can still press the V button and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u109	Madam President! Myllykoski is still at the age of questioning and wishes to continue this survey. [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Great. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u112	Madam President! I'm gonna ask you about the forestry part. I'm not going to this horse thing right here. Above all, if Metsähallitus goes to do new fellings, then we would do the nature studies, because in the case of Ruotouvuori it was later found that there had been no proper nature surveys and then it was discovered that oho, hussy, this was the case, and it was only granted after long twists. I believe that it is in the interests of everyone from both the nature conservation and the economy as a whole that we go along with the paragraphs and do nothing to duplicate, that one side is bad for nature conservation, and the other side is trying to increase the amount of decay in forests and they are hitting each other in the ears because it does not benefit the taxpayer or nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u113	I would like to add three more debatable remarks: Mr Kurvinen, Mr Ala-Nissila and Mr Myllykoski. The Minister then replies, three minutes, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u114	Madam President! Congressman Myllykoski, you had an excellent attention to the common forest. In my region, too, the city has become an engine for this and very good productivity gains have been achieved in the case of common forests. But in fact, I would raise a point when I am a lawyer from my civilian profession and the government is now planning to cut back on the time and lifetime of the death nests where there is forest, how this is going to be done. After all, the estate is a rather difficult form of management when it comes to unanimity, and then it is not necessarily because of it that those forestry activities are being carried out and the tree is not moving. What are we going to do with these deathbeds now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u115	Madam President! Congressman Myllykoski spoke of the common forest. In my opinion, it is a modern way of doing forestry in a modern age, when people are interested in forestry. At the time of the reform of capital and corporate taxes under the Aho government, this whole matter of common forest had been forgotten. A section on co-financing was then added. In my opinion, this common forest taxation came into good shape at the time that it does not in itself need to change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u116	Madam President! I don't want to get into horse riding, so I'm gonna have to open this up a little bit, why I'm worried about the horse economy. During the last reign 141 left, when we lost the possibility of colt premiums in Southern Finland, i.e. it was no longer possible to support them. At the same time, according to the definition of active farmers, the area payments rose to 5 hectares, leaving 385 farms in Finland without area payments. It has now been seen that racial potential is threatened by small numbers of foals. So we have the right one, because the EU considers it to be an original race. I would like the Minister to have someone find out whether there is any chance at national level to support the fact that this precious and diverse breed of ours can remain strong and capable of breeding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u117	Then there's Minister Tiilikainen, and three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u118	Thank you, Speaker! And I would like to thank the representatives for this very varied and constructive debate, which has taken place all in all. You have a lot more questions than I can answer or even know how to answer. But there are still some answers. Representative Aalto asked about this Metsähallitus activity whether one hand knows what the other does if I simplify the question. Surely it is always possible to improve that activity in every organisation. And it is vitally important because the expectations of Metsähallitus in Finland are high — it is expected that efficient forestry will generate a lot of money for good purposes in the state budget, it will be expected to make a very significant contribution to nature conservation and a great deal of recreational services and other public services — that there, I believe, will be an effort to respond to these services. But unfortunately, such contradictions may sometimes occur. I welcome these greetings from Mrs Myllykoski's Finnish horse. I can't quite answer them yet, but I'm glad you brought it up. On the other hand, this part of the common forest really is, just as Mr Ala-Nissila said, a very good form of forest ownership and even a worthy form of taxation. And just as these efforts to shorten the life-cycle of the death nests are being pursued by Mr Kurvise — which certainly require a wide range of legal assistance — this common forest can be one good way in which all those who are shareholders in that estate will retain the opportunity to be forest owners without having to go to these farms. In other words, this is where the common forest issue is to be promoted and taken forward. Moreover, it is important in this forest ownership that wood is placed on the market according to these growing needs, and then the issue of the generation of forest farms is one. At the beginning of 2017, we should have a system in place, and some decisions to improve entrepreneurship-like forestry and its operation will also be prepared in the course of next year. But then there'll be more of them later. All in all, agriculture and forestry are in a challenging situation, but there are also a lot of expectations and opportunities here, and I must try, with your support, to do everything in my power to enable this sector, despite these difficult times, to see the brighter future for which I am sure all of us in this Chamber have a sincere desire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u119	All right, thank you, Minister, and then we will move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Myllykoski, your turn. And here everyone will be informed that the matter will be suspended after Mrs Myllykoski's speech and then we will continue on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u120	Madam President! There were a lot of lunches that I have built in my own speech in the recent debate, so I will leave them this time perhaps for a little less. But when we talk about the budget, when the Minister for Sectors is here, I am talking about the cut in education for universities. I am extremely concerned that fundamental research will be cut, precisely when we have a great leap and a desire to increase the bioeconomy. We already have good projects there, which will certainly be possible with this super rain that this government has created for this sector, but we still need the basic research that will create the conditions for the government to fulfil its own ambitious objective, which is very much to be welcomed. We have a future in the forests, not just in the forests. But at this point in the debate on the budget, it is necessary to re-emerge this cross-administrativeism into a very big centre. It is precisely when the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has a really big money pool that these joint projects will then be coordinated in a cross-administrative manner with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and so that the ministries will not just be jealously guarding each other's spending, but let's go and ski in one goal. This is very important. I hope that, even if it is a question of bioeconomy, it can be taken there, as is the case with the government programme, this circular economy, and the related efforts at EU level are very important so that we can produce more than just soil from the treatment of waste. I welcome the fact that the debate on the budget and the government programme has brought out the experiments and that we now have the courage to go, Mr President, if just a little... well, I shall not say that naughty word, that this government not only talks about it but also smokes. And it is a good thing that we have now put our minds into the fact that this is how we can produce a new one for the horse economy and for that industry, and I encourage the Minister, as far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, to overcome that problem, because it has also been overcome by the Swedes. But what I would particularly like to highlight here is: All in all, I would have liked this budget to have had a little more potential for us to be able to reform our own systems more courageously in order to provide companies with some paths to recruit the first employee, which means, as I have already said here, cost-effective, even budget-positive things. That's what I would have liked to have been out there. So if we hire the first foreign worker in the company, then we give the company a sort of double-depreciation right in terms of salary and secondary expenses for the first year. If we were to estimate that 10,000 people would be employed and that a full right to deduct would be possible through the result, this would mean that the State would lose EUR 69 million a year in corporate tax revenue. On the other hand, if the monthly salary of EUR 2300 is used as an earnings component, it will generate the State — although the tax on labour is only 17%, the total tax rate is 25% — with 72 million tax revenues. And if it were so happy that all of these were unemployed, the government would save EUR 69 million a year on unemployment costs. These are the elements that the opposition representative Myllykoski will serve here along the way. This initiative can now be signed. I am not making them into legal initiatives, but I hope that the government will catch them. There are a lot of these similar things that need to be done. Finally, while the Minister for the Sector is here, I would like to express my wish for strength and for transparency with regard to new ideas. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-02-ps-44.u121	Thank you for a good debate.
