ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be made by Jukka Gustafsson and others. on the intermediate issue of the impact of training cuts on growth, educational equality and skill levels. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 22 September 2015. In the debate, Jukka Gustafsson, supported by Jani Toivola, has tabled a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. This is presented by Mr Stubb — please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u3	Madam President, ärade fru talman! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government is now bringing the third amending budget of the year to the attention of Parliament, and this additional budget has started to be built, especially in order to dam the negative employment effects of our sad Microsoft redundancies in the summer and in the short term. These Microsoft events of the summer reflect, unfortunately, the overall mood of our economy. Global economic growth is declining again as China’s economic outlook for growth has weakened and Russia’s unfavourable development continues. Although there is moderate growth in many of our export countries in Europe, Finland has not been able to absorb that growth, as the inefficient structures of our economy continue to hold back growth. Although the rest of Europe is on the rise, Finland’s economy is negative for the third year and growth in the current year also threatens to remain subdued. The most worrying thing is that our employment development is the weakest in Europe. Our public finances also seem to have become permanently in deficit due to longer-term structural problems, and weak growth in tax bases and rising unemployment expenditure pose a major challenge to the management of public finances. It must be clear that Finland will not rise without the structural reforms we are all familiar with: the social reform, the dismantling of municipal tasks or the ongoing competitiveness measures that this government has now taken up. The alternative path is the path of continuous cutting and slow drying, but it does not solve structural problems that prevent our growth in a sustainable way, and this is hardly what any of us want. Mr President! Although we now have a so-called additional Microsoft budget, the government's measures are, of course, a whole. This individual additional budget cannot be decoupled from a large entity. Measures of relevance to employment developments include government proposals to replace the Social Pact and major reform projects to promote local reconciliation or the large size of the labour administration as outlined in the Government Programme. It is also essential how we encourage Finnish companies to invest, grow and employ. Everyone understands that, for example, the replacement of these jobs already lost from Microsoft requires a large number of new small and medium-sized enterprises and the ability and willingness of our existing companies to renew and grow. This positive cycle of growth is being initiated by the government, inter alia, through an incentive tax policy, a reduction in the threshold for employment and an increase in the predictability of economic policy. As has been said, we are now looking at a very small part of the whole package of government measures. However, with the additional budget, we can bring rapid relief to the acute situation, and from this point of view, the measures proposed in the budget should also be looked at. In the additional budget, Microsoft-targeted activities include investments in adult education and employment appropriations. A total of over EUR 2 million is proposed for additional vocational training and higher education, especially for those made redundant in the field of ict, for the current year. Additional funding will enable training to be provided to a total of approximately 750 people. It is important that training is designed in such a way that its duration and content are as responsive as possible to the needs of customers. The Government proposes an increase of EUR 21.6 million in employment appropriations, of which EUR 20 million is due to the general increase in unemployment and EUR 1.6 million is due to Microsoft's redundancies. In addition, the resources of Ely Centres and TE Offices will be increased by a total of 9 person-years in order to ensure personal assistance and prompt handling of matters, despite the pressure from Microsoft's dismissal situation. Madam President! In addition to the challenging Microsoft situation, the additional budget also responds to a few other acute budgetary needs that cannot wait for the actual budget for the coming year: Due to the significant increase in the number of asylum seekers, the government considers it important to increase resources for the Finnish Immigration Service, the police and the protection police to ensure the smoothness of asylum decisions also in a very challenging situation. In total, increases are made for more than EUR 3 million, and it is in the interests of both Finland and asylum seekers themselves that decisions come within a reasonable period of time. We must also be prepared to make similar adjustments to the last amending budget of the year. The number and resources of the authorities will be increased as necessary to keep the situation under control. In the long term, European solutions to the situation of asylum seekers are both economically and humanly necessary. These are currently being applied for between European countries, not only at yesterday's Home Affairs Council but also at today's extraordinary European Council. The government also wants to play its part in facilitating the viability crisis in agriculture. Many of our farmers are now in a difficult situation because of the bans on imports of food from Russia. It is estimated that the losses caused by the ban on imports of milk in Finland alone will reach around EUR 200 million, so only small parts of the losses can be compensated for. However, our aim is to help Finnish farms with the most difficult one-off increase of EUR 20 million to secure the liquidity of farms. There are also a few minor but nevertheless important additions to the amending budget: An increase of EUR 5 million is proposed in vocational education and training, with the aim of supporting and promoting the development of vocational education and training reform. The Government will also continue to test the scrapping premiums for vehicles with an additional EUR 5 million. The experience gained so far from the experiment has been only positive. The idea of the crash fee experiment is that, when a new car is purchased, a EUR 1500 premium will be paid for the scrapping of a car over 10 years old, which will benefit the price of the new car. According to statistics, the experiment has stimulated the car trade clearly and has increased the sector's positive suction together with the Government's decision to reduce the car tax. In terms of both the reduction of the car tax and the testing of the scrapping premium, it is particularly positive that our car fleet is being reformed and that new cars are safer and more emission-efficient and, at the same time, end-of-life vehicles are being directed to official scrapping sites. Madam President! This is a summary of the main content of the third amending budget for the current year. Due to the challenge of our economic situation and the unpredictable need for additional resources, the government must also reserve sufficient room for manoeuvre in the forthcoming fourth amending budget. After this proposal, some EUR 70 million remains undivided. Next week we will be able to get to grips with the bigger picture of the economy with fresh economic forecasts for next year's actual draft budget, budgetary frameworks and compensatory measures in the social pact. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u4	There will be a debate, so I would ask you to sign up by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u5	Madam President! Rarely is an amending budget as necessary this time. There are some very important targets here. Minister Stubb highlighted the situation in the Salo region, where there have been indeed 6000 fewer jobs, most recently 1000. Indeed, it is very important and a good thing that the government responds to the situation in the amending budget in order to take forward its own development plan for the city of Salo and the region. We had an opportunity to get to know it, and there is really entrepreneurship now, including the ict sector. In that sense, it is important that this training should take place at this time, as early as this autumn. Mr President! This is not a supplementary speech, but thanks to the Minister for a good allocation to the right destination.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u6	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the previous speaker and also the Minister's opening speech. These items are very well selected. In this Microsoft situation, it is very important that we get the know-how that is now released from it, that it goes into new business or through continuing training to other sectors to benefit Finnish industry, Finnish trade and Finnish know-how in general. And the fact that we will then get people in the right places that will be released from it is truly an important thing. This is the biggest challenge in Salo, but of course also in Tampere, Oulu and elsewhere where Microsoft's people have been. I also welcome the fact that this car scrapping premium has been extended, that vocational training reform has been launched and that assistance has also been given to this acute agricultural situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for a good introduction. It is very important now that this problem of unemployment in Salo is tackled and facilitated. We have many Finnish companies whose production is in China and similar cheaper countries, and we would also have to find ways to bring this production to Finland, and I'm sure there are ways to do that. In particular, I would like to thank the government for these employment appropriations and, in particular, Minister Lindström for the fact that over EUR 20 million has been earmarked for this purpose in this amending budget. There would have been a disastrous situation in this country if this had not been the case, so thank you for this. Finally, with regard to this emergency aid package for agriculture, I would like to say that it is coming at the last minute and is, however, inadequate — the resources are limited — but there are:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u8	Madam President! This is a very serious situation. It is good that money is coming, but it is mercilessly late and there is too little money. We know that the estimated need for this is EUR 90 million; you represent about twenty. Minister Lindström, I ask you: You have often said that money is insufficient. Why are you only playing $30 million? What do you think of the fact that this money cannot satisfy a third need? I do not think we can afford to do business now, but we must take this very seriously. Overall, the employment situation is worsening, and quite a few economic assessors have said recently that the government's policy of cuts will only weaken the prospects for growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u11	Madam President! Already in the summer, the Greens considered that, in the context of the second amending budget, the unemployment situation was becoming ever worse, calling for more employment appropriations. At that time, this Chamber decided otherwise, even though all the expert reports repeated one message: there is a crying shortage of employment funds, and the start-up money for companies and the money needed to employ young people for pay support are over this year. It is a good thing that an increase of EUR 21.6 million has now been made in public employment and business services, but that amount almost only covers the needs of Uusimaa. As Mr Viitanen said, the real need is EUR 90 million. I ask: why should the government pay for people not to get a job rather than pay for people to get a job and have access to education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u12	Mr President! It is good that the government reacted to the situation in Microsoft, but both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Labour should perhaps have read or at least remembered the report on the second supplementary budget adopted by the Committee on Finance and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u15	Madam President! Of course, the increase in employment appropriations is important, but, as has already been made clear by many colleagues here, at the moment the amount that the government is proposing is just 20 million, and that is not enough. The information that has been obtained from the social centres and from the associations of the unemployed who employ the long-term unemployed also indicates precisely that about 90 million would be a real need. We have been informed by the Ministry that some 200 million so-called transfer appropriations have been transferred to this year, which are already committed, but there is a buffer of about EUR 50 million. Would the Minister of Labour be able to explain why this EUR 50 million buffer could not be released in this situation, which, together with this additional budget, would bring us closer to 70 million which would better respond to the situation that is currently in that field?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u16	Mr President! There are thousands of people in the provinces who would like to get to work, they would have a job ready, but the pay subsidy is on ice. And now what is being presented here is barely enough to defuse the traffic that has been generated here. So the need would be 90 million, but we have a Minister of Labour who only presents 30 million. You've been Minister for less than four months now. For the first time, we have a Minister for Labour, who himself does not see to it that the employment budget is sufficient. Last Friday's rally asked you when you had this slogan 'you can get what you want' that where you can cancel this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u17	Mr President! It has happened that unemployment has turned up again and bad news is constantly coming. This Microsoft situation is one of the worst, but it seems to continue elsewhere. When unemployment increases, then, of course, we should react with regard to employment appropriations. We have a situation in the employment offices that there is no longer one-off provision of services for those who come there. People are told to come back in four months. Nothing can be done for four months, and then there will be a first meeting. The budget is lagging behind. The last information was that we actually have almost 500,000 people without work. Start-up funds cannot be granted, start-ups are postponed, there are many hopelessnesss. Would it not be much more sensible instead of doing and applauding this beeping here, to make more radical movements so that we can urgently help these people who have been left without a job?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u18	Mr President! The increase in unemployment is indeed worrying, and the government's means in relation to this situation are quite inadequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u19	Madam President! After all, an amending budget is being made to respond to these changing circumstances during the budget year, and that is what we are doing here. We are now investing more in employment, in the problems of agriculture. Then there is this unpredictable influx of refugees and asylum seekers, which creates costs, cost pressures for the Finnish Immigration Service and the police, and it is very important that this issue is now being added and dealt with. However, this additional budget will further increase the need for net government borrowing by EUR 52 million, which means that we will continue to be in debt, and when we call for more money for all important items, we will also call for more government debt. This equation we have to solve before long, this is not how it can be,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u22	Take representatives from Pakkanen, Terho, Myllykoski, Rinne and then Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u23	Madam President! As has been said in many speeches, employment must be taken care of, and I personally appreciate the work of the Minister for Employment, Mr Lindström. He has personal experience of doing work in the context of unemployment. But especially in this matter of amending budgets, I am warmed up by the rapid response to immigration, by the additional resources there. It will also improve employment, and we in the Kouvola region now have a good example of this when it is just being set up in the centre. The second thing I would like to draw attention to in a positive way is that the government is reacting to this agricultural emergency and has received sufficient measures and money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u24	Madam President! Yes, when it comes to creating jobs in the private sector, it is, of course, based on competitiveness, which is what the government is trying to do its best to take care of. We can no longer afford to maintain jobs financed by taxpayers, in practice financed by debt, as if just in the name of recovery. It does not lead to any lasting outcome. In these additional budget debates, the opposition seems to be waiting for the new government, with a few additional budgets, to correct all the mistakes you were making during the previous parliamentary term. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u27	Madam President! I am already sorry for my choice of words, but I have to say that I have to say to the previous speech that perhaps it would be necessary at some point to repatriate politics, to see what has happened in Finland. The previous government or the previous government cannot do anything about company redundancies. Maybe the blame on each other is a little bit misleading. But, Madam President, the government, with its own axe, is already striking another blow to unemployment, and then here we should celebrate the fact that the Band-Aid is now trying to patch this up. Yes, I would have liked Mr Lindström to have gone for bigger fish in principle than 30 million, because there is also a rule in the Fisheries Act. Now we're going to ask for the undersized salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u28	Mr President! As early as last autumn, I started the preparatory work at the Ministry of Finance to use basic daily allowance and labour market support for active employment, and it has progressed there, I understand. The logic behind this is that the basic daily allowance for the unemployed's income and labour market support could be used as elements for employment. It would mean around EUR 700 per month for companies that are ready to employ, and would replace it with pay subsidies and a lack of money that is currently being spent on start-up money. Why are you, Minister Lindström, content to tinker with a few corrections of EUR 10 million when we need EUR 100 million more money? What do you think your unemployed coworkers at the paper mill are thinking about this tinkering?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u29	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u30	Madam President! Late, too little, beeping and tinkering. Why are we in this situation? I was held up by the end of the mandate for these employment funds as soon as this work started. At the same time, I also expressed my concern within the government, and that matter was addressed. You are now accusing me of something that you yourself have outlined at the beginning of this year. You've been telling me to earmark the money. The system is so rigid that where there is money, it cannot be used elsewhere. Of course, the fact that we are here looking for the guilty does not help any of the unemployed, but blame me, I will accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u33	Minister Stubb 3 minutes, then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u34	Madam President! I believe that an excellent debate and all the blame must be avoided. At some point, the old integration theorist Donald Puchala, who, in 1973, probably wrote an article on the blind man and the elephant, the big picture. The basic argument was that integration theory, such as the economy, if you only explore one part of that whole, does not necessarily give an overall picture. That is perhaps the basic problem in dealing with the amending budget, that we are dealing with only a small part, as Mr Terho said there. For me, I would see this whole in such a way, from the point of view of Parliament and the government, that one of the priority tasks is to balance public finances. The cold fact is that EUR 5 billion of additional debt will be taken over this year. So in practice we have 49.1 billion in revenue and 54.1 billion in expenditure. The second, of course, which we are always struggling with is that there are certain acute expenditures, as this amending budget shows. This time we have allocated them to unemployment funds since Microsoft, and I also understand the criticism that too late, too little. But I don't think anyone has a chance to give you more or sooner. The second major issue we are dealing with here is the increasing expenditure on asylum seekers, and the third is, of course, our agriculture and the plight of agriculture. That is what we are looking at here, as if one piece of the whole. But I dare to say that if we look at the bigger picture — the measures of the Government Programme, the objectives, the key projects and, in particular, the measures to replace the Social Pact — then they are a good start to the change that we will no longer be faced with this type of acute action along the way. I would perhaps like to emphasise two points at the end. The first is that we are supported by the private sector in the public sector, and then the starting point is that the company is trying to sell products and services in the world and in Finland, and that is what we can share on the public side, not only through jobs but also through tax revenues. If we do not have the demand for and supply of labour, if companies do not have the sense or the ability to produce services and products that sell, then we do not have the unallocated reserve, an amending budget or anything else. The last point is that Finland will not grow by saving, Finland will not grow by revitalising and we will not get away with this after this economic cycle, but will be a much broader structural reform. It's the elephant we all need to see.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u35	Mr President! I understand this pain, what the ministers have in relation to this economy, and it is no surprise to anyone that this sort of situation exists. But what annoys me about this draft amending budget: as early as the summer, last June, we proposed an increase in these employment appropriations in order to get those people to work. It has been several months since then again, and we are in a situation where the money that is being presented is not enough to employ those people who already have jobs when wage subsidies are mobilised, start-up money. I therefore call again on this Minister, Mr Lindström, to reconsider the additional means which, for example, through basic daily allowance and labour market support, could give rise to the possibility of using this money for the livelihood of the unemployed also in the form of pay subsidies, and you would quickly use these means. This would make it possible not to have to increase the pay subsidy so much when you get more money in another way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u36	Mr President! However, we have money in the budget: EUR 6 billion, which is the cost of unemployment, and about EUR 5.5 billion of it is spent on unemployment security, and we are talking about more than EUR 4 billion, which is the net impact of unemployment. If we were to introduce this model that Mr Rinne has presented here, we could use the money that is now being paid passively to the unemployed as active money, whether it be the employment money, the addition of the Young People's Sanssi card.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u39	Mr President! The big picture is that there is no growth in the global economy and our competitors have made more structural changes and reforms than we have in Finland. The key question is whether we can raise the employment rate. If we do not get this, we will increase just how much money we can spend on employment will not solve the problem. Therefore, in the budget debate that will begin in a week's time, we should try to find ways to raise the employment rate and change this big picture. So I ask the ministers: do you have enough medicines in the budget debate starting next week to make this big picture better?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u40	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Employment: you mentioned that next year, too, employment appropriations will be reduced — according to my information, this will be about EUR 50 million, EUR 110 million during the whole parliamentary term. How does this help to keep the state in debt? Should we not continue to gain more employment in order to tackle this big picture? And Mr Terho and Mr Stubb, I hope that you have heard of the basic fundamentals of the economy: it consists of the private, public and foreign sectors. The situation in the private sector is currently extremely serious. Households' indebtedness rate is 122.6 per cent, the investment rate for enterprises is lower than in the period of the recession of 94 — it can almost be turned on — the foreign sector is very low. How much will this situation be helped by reducing public finances by cutting public demand? It's going to hit you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u41	Madam Speaker! Minister Lindström gave an excellent speech right there: said how the government's aim is to activate the billions of which Mr Filatov said they are now in passive use. That is exactly what must be done: the structures must be reformed and the money allocated to work should be spent on maintaining unemployment rather than on maintaining unemployment. I am a little surprised when it is said here that the appropriations approved last autumn, less than a year ago, have already been exhausted. Apparently, they ran out of elections last spring. So what mathematics has this year been used to measure the appropriations that have already run out around six months? In the case of agriculture, there is a major emergency, particularly in dairy farms. There is a need for both support and reform of the system, and I would like the government to make a special effort to do so. There has been a quick and good response to this Microsoft, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u42	Mr President! Here are a couple of very confusing things. First of all, Mr Lindström, the opposition has no right to present itself. You are now the minister who really needs to defend the unemployed, to defend the employment budget. Why do you only play 30 million when you need 90? Another very confusing point is that, Minister Lindström, when you were chairman of the group earlier last spring and last winter, the group president, Lindström, proposed an additional EUR 75 million for active activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u43	Madam President! We are talking about employment money here, but all the more important is this big picture. The Government aims to promote employment in a sustainable way by improving the competitiveness of Finnish companies. The government is proposing compensatory measures for the social pact to Parliament, but it has to resort to the instruments available to the legislator and therefore this government package does not seem to be very fair and fair because it mistreats, for example, police officers, firefighters, women-dominated low-wage sectors such as care and shopkeepers. A more balanced package on the labour market is now in the hands of the SAK. All other organisations are prepared to negotiate a fairer package, which would address, for example, holiday money and working time. I therefore hope that all those in this Chamber who have contacts with the SAK will act in order to find a fairer solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u44	Madam President! Since we also have a Minister of Justice here, I would like to draw attention to a number of problems relating to legal protection that go beyond this budget. The fact is that the money from the employment services is so scarce at the moment that it is questionable whether the whole system should be kept up. There is a great deal of discretion on the part of the authorities in this area, and when there are no resources to manage it properly, serious legal security problems arise in a situation where it is a matter of people's daily livelihoods and time-consuming sanctions that go directly to people's refrigerators. Another major problem of legal protection relates to asylum seekers and to the additional resources allocated to them. There is great concern as to whether these resources will continue to be able to implement the requirements of international human rights obligations for individual asylum applications. There is a great deal of concern about the fact that, now that we are going to go on a domestic check-up so that they do not just slip over to the ethnic profiling side, what it looks like now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u45	Madam President! There are many good things in the draft amending budget, such as, for example, this scrapping premium experiment, which Mr Stubb told us about — an excellent thing for the expansion of the car trade. My concern is with the Ministry of the Interior's administration. A couple of million euros are being proposed here because of immigration, and this is, of course, a good and justified increase, but this overall picture is very vague. The Ministry of the Interior page says that this year there will be between 25,000 and 30,000 immigrants or asylum seekers, and one immigrant, an asylum seeker, will pay about EUR 15000 per year at the reception centre. This will result in a total cost of around EUR 450 million. The big picture is that it doesn't really open from anywhere. This applies not only to the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the Ministry of Justice, Education and Culture, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u46	Madam President! This crisis of profitability in agriculture is so difficult that the 20 million allocated in this amending budget is not enough to begin with. But now it is very important that this little money is allocated correctly: to young people, to those who invested and to those who are alive. It was recently reported that the average farmer's hourly salary has fallen below EUR 6. Who would agree to do any other work for such a low wage? I feel like nobody's here. This year, the entrepreneurial income of agriculture and the profitability factor have fallen sharply. Profitability and entrepreneurial income are already clearly negative in the pig economy and in crop cultivation. Madam Speaker! If we want to maintain Finnish food production, the most important factor in this is the Finnish consumer. Currently, there are 2.5 to 3 times more food imports into Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u47	Madam Speaker! We're not looking for the guilty. We're looking for the responsible ones. Unemployment has increased throughout the year. A second amending budget was discussed in the early summer, in which the opposition as a whole called for additional appropriations for employment because the Employment and Economic Development Centres had announced that the money would run out. The government deliberately failed to grant the necessary money, and that is why we are again in this debate. Equally worrying is the fact that the Minister for Employment and the Economy apparently does not even know how employment money is spent. There are no tools in the regions to monitor where the money is sufficient and where it is directed. The officials of the Ministry have assured both us decision-makers and the regions that there is money. As an unknown soldier goes, "Go and complain about your need, and you'll be hit with a rag so you can't be in trouble." It has therefore become apparent that the information system used by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is almost 30 years old. It was launched in 86 C.E. That's why the throws are tens or hundreds of millions. [President MariaLohela : Timed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u50	Mr President! There is little left to wonder about this debate, especially the government's stance in this debate. Certainly the first and most important thing is, Minister of Labour Lindström, that it does not fish for a man unless a man seeks fish. This is just a simple truth. Reducing long-term unemployment alone by 1% would bring 600 million to public finances. Is there not some reason here that you should manage the increase in the employment rate, as Mr Kalli has already said, [President MariaLohela : Time to go. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u53	Mr President! It is certainly true that we have people in Finland who would be employed if they received pay subsidies. And there are people who would start a business when they got start-up money. These are important things. But I am surprised at this debate that, after many parliamentary periods have already been tried to go so far as to gradually increase the pay subsidy and gradually increase the start-up money, our unemployment situation has continued to deteriorate. Now, for the first time, we have a government — and I also say the Minister for Labour — which starts from the fact that the competitiveness of Finnish work needs to be improved, and for the right reasons, that jobs will be created through the market economy. Now that it is for the first time a real attempt to do things like this, we are now criticising this fact that employment is not being managed. You might want to look in the mirror now that those old ways are simply not enough. They are complementary, and they are needed, but a big change is needed now, and that is what the government is doing. I hope you will support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u54	Mr President! So, of course, support for employment is needed, and also the responsibility of the public authorities. Not everything can be put into market power, Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u57	Mr President! If you listened now to the two previous speeches, Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Satose, you actually noticed that there is a slight difference in tone. However, it is a question of the same thing in both speeches, namely the management of employment, how to deal with employment. I think that employment is best managed in the way that new jobs are created, that people have jobs. The second option is, of course, that the state pays the wages of all Finns. At the end of the game, we'll be in that position. New jobs, the creation of new jobs, are the best management of employment, and that is what the government has taken up. I am pleased that, apart from just a few gravel votes, Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, has received strong support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u58	Mr President! The debate has been very good. We must also thank the opposition for its points of view. Clearly, it makes more sense for us to keep people in working condition at the same time as we create new jobs. Both of these things must be in order. Of course, the question arises when we are talking about the use of the single currency — in practice the same purse and, in part, the municipal purse — why, in this situation, should we not really transfer to start-up funds and support for employment funds from there to passive support funds. That does not mean an additional budget, but simply a transfer of money from one place to another. The only example of this is that no new start-up or support employment decisions can be made in Uusimaa because the money is out of money. I would, of course, like to see Mr Lindström, who has done an excellent job, able to take care of this at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u59	Mr President! It is quite right what has been said here that raising employment rates is the most important employment policy, but that is precisely what Mr Heinäluoma has said about how people are regarded as capable of working. That is, for example, the question of this pay subsidy. We now have very good experience of this experiment in the field of employment in the municipalities. They're looking for these paths for people, how to get back to work. But in the middle of this, we need these pay support jobs. In fact, it is almost the only element that will then be available between rehabilitation and access to the open labour market. Good results have been achieved here for individuals, but money has also been saved. This is a concrete example of the fact that this activity:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u60	Madam President! Active labour market policy is a key part of the Finnish system, which activates the unemployed and involves them in working life. Minister of Labour Lindström has just flashed structural changes in labour policy. It would be very interesting to know the concrete aspects of this, how the lack of sufficient investment in unemployment funds will reform the structures. That's my first question. Question number two: The Minister of Labour said that fewer and fewer resources are doing bigger things, but if we look at pay subsidies and start-up money, they are one of the most effective ways to activate people. How does this help to reduce unemployment, because we simply do not have enough money for these very activities, which are the ones that work the most, as we have seen before? The money you're presenting only covers Uusimaa... [President MariaLohela : Timed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u63	Let's have a few more representatives from Lindtman and Eestilä. Then Minister Lindström will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u64	Mr President! I would like to express the hope that those in this Chamber who have contacts with the Confederation of Finnish Industries or the Finnish Government will tell them to stop blackmailing and start genuine negotiations. Or, in fact, I think it's enough to talk to the government because the government has become the post office of the EK and the Minister of Labour is the postman of this post office. But for these employment appropriations. We have just heard the Minister for Labour's argument why you do not present these. The Ely Centre says that the need would be 90 million, but you have just said that since next year this money will be cut off, that is why no more will be proposed for this year. In other words, you recognise that there is a need, but because the incomprehensible employment and labour policy of this government, which deprives people of opportunities for employment, creates businesses, has been closed down so that it cannot be changed, no matter what the employment situation, you are not now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u65	Madam President! It is absolutely right to demand money for wage support and employment, because unemployment in Finland is so massive at the moment. However, both in the budget and in this additional budget - at least in my opinion - we are dealing with an economic inequality. If we look at about 20 million, which is put into employment management, that is a totally inadequate figure, everyone recognises it. If we look at agriculture with a real cash flow loss of more than 400 million in 2015, that 20 million will not really solve the problems of agriculture. And if we could afford it, we would certainly be putting more pressure on both the unemployed and the farmers, but now we have to choose two ways: either we borrow the necessary money, this time someone 14.5 million a day, 90% from abroad — and it is likely that the price of money will increase in the future — or we will take the measures that the government is proposing, that we export better and that we get the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u66	Then, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u67	Madam President! If we start now with Mr Kalli's question of whether the government has any medicines to intervene in this big picture, there is, and that medicine is a government programme, and behind it is standing. That's all we've got. There are a number of measures to be taken within it, and I will be able to repeat that for as long as I am in this task. Well, with regard to this treatment of unemployment, I tried to say just now that we are undergoing a structural change in the management of unemployment, and that is because we do not have the money to put as much into it as... Of course I'd put a billion in there if I had that kind of power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u70	Then Minister Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u71	Madam President! In my answer, I will really concentrate on just one question: employment. The first point relates directly to the Minister for Labour. I would not only like to defend but also to thank the Minister for Labour for the work he is doing at the moment. He's putting himself on the line 24/7. The fact that he is writing to the Minister for Finance with a budget of EUR 30 million does not mean that he has not pushed on like a bull in our bilateral discussions on this issue. He has done everything in his power to increase these employment appropriations. If you want something to blame, do not blame the Minister for Labour, but the Minister for Finance, who, unfortunately, has only a limited supply at the moment. Work. I hope that in four years' time, when we are dealing here with the amending budget, we will no longer be dealing with unemployment, employment. This would mean that the employment situation in Finland would be better. Our objective is still the 110 000 jobs, the 72% employment rate, and we currently have a Minister for Labour, who frankly implements the difficult decisions we made in one government programme, regardless of our background, but in the interests of employment. What do we need? We need more labour supply and demand. What do we need? We need to dismantle the incentive traps. What do we need? We need local settlements. What do we need?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u74	Ministers will soon have to leave, but we can continue the debate if we wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u75	Mr President! Business According to information just received, the Institute has reduced the forecast for 2017 due to the growth of the government's cutting operations. That's how it's headlined. I was just thinking about how Etla will be reduced when these minus 5% cutbacks come and their assessment takes place. However, I would have liked to ask Minister Lindström why, in this situation, the government is not prepared to use the means that I have just proposed to mobilise basic daily allowance and labour market support directly for the unemployed in such a way that companies receive some EUR 700 per month in the same way as pay subsidies. It would be a direct, rapid measure to create more jobs for people who already have jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u77	Mr President! Simply reading Helsingin Sanomat reveals a very interesting public debate: Many economists are seriously questioning this cutting-edge government's basic economic policy. If you read Professor Haparanna's assessment, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u80	Madam President! After several years of living beyond the funds in Finland, how is it possible to stop living as a liability in this situation without anyone’s purchasing power being interfered with? I don't know, it may be that Professor Haparanda has a solution for that, but I can't even get this equation. But now that we are talking about the government package, we can talk about this package replacing the social pact or more broadly about the government programme. If we talk more broadly about the Government Programme, there are a number of ways to improve the competitiveness of Finnish companies, and when we improve the competitiveness of Finnish companies, they will do better in the world, there will be orders, there will be work in Finland. Please continue to tell me the professor who denies that the improvement in competitiveness will, over time, be reflected in the improvement in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u83	Mr President! Here it is, and I see the Minister of Finance is smiling. You have made a package with the content: we will take EUR 500 out of your pocket, in some professions thousands of euros a year, and when people are unhappy, you will say good, we will take the same amount, but you can decide which pocket it will be taken from. And then you wonder that the negotiations are not going very well. You have made such a blackmailing arrangement, saying that minus 5% will be taken anyway, completely changed your speech on what you said before the elections. You have completely reversed your sled in relation to what you said before the elections. Now you say minus 5% and forget what its impact on employment is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u84	Minister Stubb, I think a minute will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u85	Madam President! I think a minute is good enough. — So our calculations, Mr Heinäluoma, in economic policy or in employment policy, are not based on the analysis of the Helsingin Sanomat, which I respect very much, which we will of course find out, but are based on fact. And the fact is that, at a time when we are improving our competitiveness by around 5%, the calculated estimate is that employment will improve by around 2.5%, which in practice In fact, I had the opportunity to have a long conversation with Professor Stiglitz, whom I greatly appreciated. Yes, there are economists who believe that the type of measures taken in Ireland, Spain or Portugal are wrong or those that have been taken
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u86	Mr President! You, the Minister of Finance, commissioned a report from Juhana Vartiainen and Anders Borg last January, in which these two economists — the former Minister of Finance from Sweden, the second Finnish MP at the moment — assessed the situation in which we are in Finland, and according to that report the problem is clearly that we have had less productivity development in this area for the last few years than in the competitor countries. According to that report, we have a demand problem in the world. Our products and services do not sell in the way we are accustomed to that. We don't have a problem with pay competitiveness. For example, last week, Mr Seija Ilmakunnas, Director of Economics, made a good speech in which he clearly demonstrated that our wage price competitiveness is currently in perfect condition, and there is Etla's study, where Etla's estimate of the wage price competitiveness gap is currently 5%.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u87	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, your pocket has been sewn so tight that an agreement on a common savings target will not be reached if the SDP is asked. And I do not believe that there will be an EK either, because it seems to be behind them that you have also hidden behind them, and you will see that when the interests of workers are weakened by these savings, they will come on your backs, because they could now have been managed in a softer way. We do not want, no one wants Sunday supplements to be touched or the absence of the first day of illness to come, but you have no choice. You just keep pretending that nothing is allowed to be touched. Mr President! The point I wanted to address is that the government does not create jobs, businesses create jobs, and we must give the conditions to companies to create those permanent jobs for us. This is an extremely important measure that Minister Lindström is doing. He is making reforms to create those permanent jobs, and in that sense I am in favour of reforming this old structural policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u88	Madam President! I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, when he referred to the calculations: when this inadequacy of the employment budget is justified by the level of debt and savings, does the Ministry of Finance have a calculation of how we save by not dealing with unemployment? That means that periods of unemployment will be prolonged. This means that long-term unemployment will increase and that job seekers' employment opportunities will also be permanently reduced. In other words, we are permanently making it difficult to achieve this increase in the employment rate as a common goal for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u89	Madam President! Anyone who has had to visit a te-office or applied for start-up money has come across a situation in which the resources of the te-offices are completely inadequate. One official may be responsible for nearly 2,000 customers. It is clear that it is impossible to obtain personal service and support with these resources. However, it is this personal encounter that is vital for many unemployed people. If you don't get to the clerk until six months from now, the situation will be completely unbearable. The government has allocated additional resources to te-offices. I would like to ask: are these resources, however, sufficient to achieve an appropriate service in the te-centres?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u90	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Jalonen, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u91	Mr President! I'll give you my regards from Eastern Finland. In North Karelia, the number of unemployed job seekers has increased by 10 per cent from one year ago and in North Savo by 13 per cent. Unfortunately, the increase of EUR 20 million proposed by the government in the employment budget is not enough even for the impressive measures proposed by the minister himself. Growth in long-term unemployment and youth unemployment is particularly worrying. And I would have liked to know now, like Mr Andersson, whether the government has reduced the short- and long-term alternative costs that arise, for example, from the lack of employment care in social and health care. So what are the costs for society if young people and the long-term unemployed, for example, are not employed? If we are talking about an overall picture, then we also need to make comprehensive assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u92	Mr President! After all, structural reforms are now being carried out with a view to achieving more with less money, and targeted investments are being made to achieve growth. Mr Viitanen, you spoke about how we made a shadow budget last season and made a responsible alternative. We were then one of the parties that was able to dictate our options. Now we are in the government, and the main line is that we want to end Finland's debt. While criticism can be given — and it is appropriate — it is justified by both the opposition and the social partners — it is also responsible at this stage for giving alternatives. Criticism without alternatives is empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u93	Let's move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Viitanen is the first on this list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u99	Madam President! The employment situation in Finland has deteriorated significantly in recent years. The increase in unemployment has continued this year. According to Statistics Finland's recent data, the number of unemployed persons had increased by 38,000 in July from last year's July. At the same time, the budget for employment has been reduced. As we have heard, in many localities and regions, for example, the funds intended to pay wage subsidies and start-up money have been exhausted in the early part of the year and new commitments have not been made. The difficult economic situation can only be translated into growth through work and joint action and entrepreneurship. We believe that employment measures should be stepped up, especially in order to facilitate the situation of young people, the long-term unemployed and single parents. Long-term unemployment is clearly the single greatest risk of exclusion and causes many, many social problems. In order to reduce structural unemployment, it is also necessary to create jobs for those with or without a low level of vocational training. At the moment, however, the abolition of the state subsidy allocation makes it difficult for companies, organisations and municipalities to find employment. Madam President! The TE Offices may grant pay subsidies only under strict conditions, if at all. The chronic lack of employment appropriations also affects the willingness of entrepreneurs to cooperate with the administration if the duration of the grants and contracts cannot be reliably predicted. It also discourages jobseekers who have agreed with the employer, but because of the lack of money in your office, you cannot enter into contracts. As the start-up money for companies is also exhausted, start-ups will have to reconsider their chances of starting their intended entrepreneurial activity when basic income is not secure. Mr President! The additional allocation for public employment and business services proposed by the Government in its amending budget is not sufficient to cover the entire acute need. However, we did receive information from a ministry official that there would also be 50 million buffer funds available to deal with unemployment. In view of this, the KD Parliamentary Group proposes an increase of EUR 30 million in the third amending budget to enable employment in public employment and business services through wage subsidies and start-up grants. This is the kind of amending budget initiative that we have signed and tabled. As a result, the government's proposal, the buffer money and our proposal would amount to approximately EUR 100 million. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u100	Mr President! When the second amending budget was discussed here in Parliament in the early summer, it was known that employment appropriations were running out or running out. It was recognized by all parties. The Social Democrats and the opposition as a whole are therefore consistently calling for more contributions to combat rising unemployment. The government deliberately failed to grant the funds, so employment stopped like a wall. In Uusimaa, for example, employment measures had to be discontinued on 1 July. Thus, for almost three months now, it has not been possible to make a single start-up and pay subsidy decision for non- statutory compulsory employees. Normally, active measures start at 1300 unemployed per month, now the number has fallen to 300. The decrease is 70 per cent while unemployment has increased in Uusimaa by nearly 15 per cent compared to the previous year. Start-up money was granted in Uusimaa last year at 2,700, and by the end of June, 2200 was reached until everything stopped like a wall. Last year there were 6,000 starting pay subsidies, two thirds of which were already filled during the first half of the year, until everything stopped like a wall. I mean, these numbers are all from New Zealand. The unemployment rate in Uusimaa will soon exceed the ghost line of 100,000. This is in an area that should be the engine of the Finnish economy. — Well, rail transport is, of course, falling by the government anyway. The situation is equally alarming throughout Finland, especially in the regions of Turku and Tampere. Minister of Labour Jari Lindström has left the unemployed in Finland, Minister Stubb also took responsibility for this. Mr President! If the second additional budget was a childhood, this third additional budget is an insult. The proposed additional allocation of around EUR 20 million for employment measures is totally inadequate. As has been said here, that 20 million is needed alone in New Zealand. That is why we are proposing an increase of EUR 70 million in employment funds so that the existing need can be met and people can be helped to work. Since the government is already refusing to see the needs of the unemployed for the second time, it must be concluded that this omission is deliberate and deliberate. Next year, Finland's unemployment exceeds 10 per cent. Historical statistics from the previous recession show how dangerous a situation is ahead. At the end of the year 91, when unemployment exceeded 10 per cent, it did not return to a single digit until the summer of 99 — that is, after 7.5 years, even during an unprecedented Nokia-driven growth. Thus, unemployment is rising rapidly and falling extremely slowly. In this light, it is completely incomprehensible that the government is going to cut employment appropriations by 50 million next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u103	Mr President! When we just discussed what the problem of Finnish exports is and what the problem of our competitiveness is, we have to show a comparison of how Germany and Finland are positioned in terms of labour costs and productivity, and it tells us that our productivity and our labour costs will be at the same level in 2014. Since then, Finland has made moderate wage decisions. In fact, the price of our work has fallen in relation to the competitor countries, Sweden, in relation to Germany, but productivity has been our strength. And now the government is looking for the only solution to the wage race. Finland has changed its entire strategy in export. We are going to compete with wages when until now our starting point has been that we compete with knowledge and we compete with productivity. This is the big difference between the social democrats and the government's economic policy, because that wage competition leads to our domestic demand dwindling. I fully agree with the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, that purchasing power consists of work and salary. And now, if we come to this labour market policy money, that purchasing power for people will, in fact, be made up of unemployment security and income support from now on. But if we spent more money on employment policy and wage support, that purchasing power would be as the Minister of Finance said: work and wages. And now the government has chosen the way in which the purchasing power of the unemployed comes from unemployment security and income support, and at the same time we are losing a lot of common social good. It's a domestic service for veterans. We're talking about single-family janitors who've been helping the elderly in the autumn yard. We are talking about container fleas that recycle and many young people have practiced trade professions. It is a matter of many, many other tasks, and these are now excluded from the labour policy thinking of this whole government — that is, the contribution of civil society, which has been valuable in this society, which has been pro-communist and which has been complete. But we also know that that money is not growing on trees and it is a scarce resource at the moment, and that is why it is absurd that our spending limits mechanism should lead us to spending billions of dollars on unemployment care outside the spending limits, but we will not be able to add EUR 100 million or EUR 200 million to employment within the spending limits. If you think that the total cost of unemployment is EUR 6 billion, 5.5 is unemployment security and the net cost is EUR 4 billion, then half a billion will be spent on active labour market policies. If that net cost, of 4 billion, were to be opened up to labour market support so that it could be used automatically as wage support — not so that it should be included within the budget for EUR 700 and a little bit above the wage subsidy, but could be taken over from there for money outside the framework — then we would have a mechanism to help people find employment, set up these companies with start-up money and otherwise more automatic, and we would not be prisoners of this spending limits policy. It is therefore absurd to think only of the money within the budget and its framework. And if this is considered further, these same questions can also be built on other means of livelihood. But when Minister Lindström said that the Social Democrats have opposed inclusive social security: We have not opposed inclusive social security. We have opposed the fact that we do not have enough pay subsidies and the money people want under that inclusive labour market policy, but instead we would create a system which would increasingly provide the company with an unwilling workforce, an incompetent workforce to be amazed at the job place where we are forced to come, no one will direct, no one will help, but otherwise the daily allowance will not run. It would also feed on normal jobs and lead both to the loss of company productivity and to the deterioration of people's quality of life. Active social policy costs money. You can't do it for free.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u104	Mr President! This additional budget is rather small, and this is about employment, both in these pay subsidies, start-ups and other forms of employment, which belong to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment, as well as in that small package within the Ministry of Agriculture. After all, agriculture is becoming crisis money of 20 million euros from national funds and then is also becoming 9 million euros from that EU funds. This is the kind of money that needs to be targeted fairly precisely at those most in need, so that they can actually help something in practice. This money should then be used to manage the most heavily indebted holdings beyond that most difficult stage. There has been a problem here that national aid can only be granted as such de minimis aid when it comes to this kind of aid outside the actual EU fund period, and this de minimis aid can only be granted for a total of EUR 15000 per applicant over a period of three years. That amount will not solve the problems of many farms. I am sure that we have now tried and will seek a solution to the fact that EU aid, which comes directly from EU funds, does not apply to this de minimis rule, and it can then provide a small degree of flexibility in helping those farms which are most in need of assistance. In other words, there must be money to help the most indebted and young farmers to manage the farms under the control of young farmers — usually young farmers — then, of course, also to deal with these Russian sanctions, where milk production is, of course, included in the focus. But there must also be crisis aid for the pig economy, and I understand that negotiations have already been held between producer organisations and the ministry to ensure that a small amount of additional support can be provided for the pig economy in this package. A product that apparently also belongs on this list is a food potato, but I think it is too difficult to handle it so quickly. Well, then with regard to the employment funds of the Ministry of Employment: it goes without saying that, in such a situation of unemployment, there is too little of that money. Since there have already been prior consultations, for example in the Section for Employment and the Economy of the Committee on Finance, it has become apparent that information does not go to the offices and ely centres either. In other words, the financial situation is not known there, and it is still being monitored manually in this modern society, so that, for example, a representative of the Southwest Finland Te Office told us that it takes five person days a month just to find out these eleven types of employment funds manually for the Ministry of Employment. I think there has been a programme going on here for a long time, a programme called the URA programme, which could be used by machines to deal with such a matter. I think it would be urgent for the decision-makers in the te-offices to know this real financial situation. There was apparently a great deal of confusion about that at the beginning of the summer. As a small comfort, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund will continue to monitor the expenditure of money manually. It would also be important to extend the use of human resources services companies to assist employment authorities in organising permanent and other jobs. After all, there has been a pilot running here at the te-offices of Uusimaa and Pirkanmaa, and apparently there has been positive experience. Of course, the information can only be provided when the jobseeker agrees to it and only to these authorized entities. But this would be important if we could get all the strength to look for work, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u105	Madam President! In a difficult economic and employment situation, a firm political stance and ambitious measures would be needed. But unfortunately we do not see them. Last season, under the leadership of Minister Ihalainen, our employment policy was active and difficult to deal with, among other things, through the Youth Guarantee and, as a general rule, with the employment budget. Since the elections, this change has been quite confusing. I would even like to say that the government has raised its hands with this problem of employment. When you listen to people’s feedback in turouds and squares, these difficult human fates hidden behind every chapter are greatly surprised that the government’s actions are of this kind. At least this additional budget contains a delicate contribution to the employment budget, which has already run out in a large number of regions. However, the increase is completely inadequate and does not give much help to this situation. The government leaves four fifths of the unemployed on the couch, even though in June you swore to take care of employment measures. I have to say that the situation is completely unreasonable not only for all unemployed but also for the municipalities. The state has transferred responsibility to municipalities for the cost of employment and employment so that the cost of unemployment for municipalities is rising rapidly and is beginning to reach EUR 1 billion per year. At the same time, the municipalities are being taken away from the tools for managing employment when, among other things, the wage subsidies are running out. Many regions have received messages from different actors about the loss of pay subsidies and start-up funds. Without extra money, the regions are in excessive situations. The organizations and the te-offices are powerless and the people I wouldn't say are afraid. Mr President! Yesterday, in the debate on the mid-term training issue, it became clear that the government's way of reforming is to cut the money to a minimum and then, at some point, start thinking about how to shape the structures. The same seems to be the case now for employment management. The government has hinted that new things are being imported, including private employment, but first the money is being taken away. This means breaking down the existing service structure, and people are left on top of nothing. What new method is it, or is it new: "We are developing"? I asked Minister Lindström in June with a written question as to whether the government intends to commit itself to sufficient employment appropriations, whether it would even have the idea of doing so. The minister's reply was completely lacking in the slightest attempt to answer the question first, perhaps because the minister later admitted that he had been deprived of the tools to deal with the matter. However, it is easy to conclude from all this twisting and twisting that the government is pushing down employment services hard and does not even want to invest in employment at the end of the game. This is yet another measure by which the government strongly divides the people in two. We all understand that the economy is stalling and forecasts are gloomy, but politics is always value choices at the end. I would like to quote Mr Filatov at the end, because I think he finished his speech in a very good way, with a good idea. His quote began: "Active social policy costs money. You can't do it for free." I believe that this active approach, if anything, should now also be taken by the government when it comes to employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u106	Madam President! The Minister of Finance used an old metaphor for an elephant. He endeavored to describe how in the dark it is very difficult for a person who only feels an elephant with a hand-knife to say what this elephant actually looks like: someone is trying a leg, someone is trying a tail, someone is experimenting with a fly, and everyone is getting a completely different result. I interpreted this parable as saying that the Minister of Finance now sees an elephant as a whole and is, as it were, on top of it and based its own policy on facts. In my view, however, it is more a question of the government standing next to that elephant now, squeezing its eyes tight and refusing to look at the elephant, because the elephant might seem frightening. This can be seen, among other things, in the way in which the interests, opinions and facts of the government's initiatives and presentations are smoothly confused, and also in this debate, how competitiveness in general and cost-competitiveness are intertwined. They have asked what can be done if there is no savings and more money should be spent. Still, Finland’s tax leak is between 6 and 8 billion annually. Although we can never completely get rid of the tax leakage, there is still a lot to be done about this. There are no domestic measures such as easy-to-read, such as those required by country accounts for public procurement, which the government is not promoting. At the same time, the government's position on the communication from the EU Commission on this issue is exceptionally clammy. We are also trying to show ourselves as unwillingly as possible on the international stage as possible to eradicate any tax evasion. In fact, the only measure to eradicate tax leakage on large government capital and companies is a penitentiary pill for rich tax evaders, and this has also been done only because it is likely that international measures will at some point be left behind in a few years' time. Another example is that we have alternatives, the fact that Finland’s occupational sickness debt currently amounts to EUR 40 billion — that is, EUR 40 billion. It is quite clear that we will never be able to reset it, but at the moment there is a world-leading research into working life in Finland, and in this area it would be relatively easy to remove 5 billion, perhaps 10 billion, from the labour debt. Well, what is the government doing to promote this? A third of the staff of the Institute of Occupational Health is being reduced, reducing one third of the people who would be able to produce multiple amounts of their own salary back to us. The Government Programme promises to do something smarter, and that is a great goal, and that is what we must strive for. But so much so far there have been no examples of actual intention to act. According to a recent study by Åbo Akadem, one third of the costs of sea freight could be deducted by a few minor technical changes. One third of the cost of sea freight — that would mean an absurd leap for the competitiveness of Finnish exports. Second: Recently, the Director of Varusteleka proposed to build open company software for all start-ups in Finland. An absurd competitive advantage in relation to other countries of the world is available with relatively light, small and cheap measures. The Government has justified its positions on savings, cuts and snooze by making Finland’s competitiveness better in the long term and, consequently, to economic growth. However, the history of the world is not one example of a country that has improved its competitiveness and brought its economy up by major cuts in education, research and development. Furthermore, there is no evidence that greater competitiveness will be improved by the fact that a stable operating environment is fundamentally undermined, for example, by wage dumping projects that the government is firmly pushing forward. Obsolete energy solutions are one example of Finland not currently on the map of the economy at all. I am actually concerned that we are not on the Greek road, that we are now on the Hungarian road in many different ways, and at the end of this road we are not expected to have a very ideal society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u107	Honorable Madam Speaker! More than EUR 1.36 million will be allocated to the police’s operational expenditure. The money will be used to process asylum applications and register applicants. This is why we even have to call back experienced and retired policemen, and even those in office have to work a lot of overtime. The additional allocation is very important, as it will be able to carry out checks and surveys on immigrants even within a reasonable period of time. This is to the benefit of those who have come to the country in the form of an accelerated procedure and of us in the country, the Finnish taxpayers, as saved costs. It is in everyone's interest that matters should be dealt with as fairly as possible and as quickly as possible. This is not acceptable with current resources. It should be remembered that, at the same time, the police must ensure, as usual, the maintenance of public order and security and the pre-trial investigation of crimes that have already taken place. After the previous government, police resources were already heavily under-imposed, so additional resources are absolutely necessary. Honorable Madam Speaker! The Government promised speed and agility in decisions, and increasing the additional budget so quickly shows that the current government is able to react quickly and respond to the challenges and wants to maintain a level of good order and security in our society. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u108	Madam President! The amending budget in the referral debate is a response to acute budgetary needs. The government has been accused of even obstinate avoidance of debt, which does not look far enough, so that it would then pay itself back. But it is true that Finland is, of course, in debt all the time, and in this amending budget, too, net borrowing is EUR 52 million. And debt is taken when it is considered to be the best option to achieve results, but I do not think it is fair for overgeneration to leave the problem of the economic deficit simply to cover debt. The amending budget partially responds to the plight of farmers by EUR 20 million to ensure profitability and liquidity. Last week, in its crisis support package, the EU Commission promised the Finnish agricultural sector 9 million. The amounts may be large in such a short period of time, but if you think about the whole, when the losses of the Russian export dairy sector to Finland amount to 200 million a year, these are unfortunately not very large subsidies, but they are necessary in the crisis that the farms are currently experiencing. So, what about the budget for employment and business services? An increase of 21.6 million is necessary. Of course, it is sad that it must also be inadequate, given that we already have 346,000 unemployed at the moment. Then, on perhaps the hottest subject in recent weeks, the acute situation of asylum seekers. It is necessary to increase the operating expenditure of the Finnish Immigration Service by 1.6 million, as well as the operating expenditure of the police, salaries, equipment purchases by 1.4 million. This money will indeed be needed for the authorities working on it, whose resources would otherwise not be sufficient in such an exceptional situation as this, for appropriate arrangements and for a smooth asylum process. Yesterday, in my home town of Tornio, for the first time in Finland, an organisation centre was opened to speed up the registration process for asylum seekers. This is historic in Finland, something like this has never been done before. The Centre shall describe the persons, shall be fingerprinted, registered and shall aim to enable them to be transferred to reception centres by two days at the latest. Of course, it is important that the integration process should go as well and as early as possible and that those who remain in Finland should be able to adapt as well as possible to the environment and society. But the return of people who have received a negative asylum decision is also an important part of this whole package. Unfortunately, there has been some confrontation among the public as to why more resources are being put in place to deal with asylum applications, while at the same time cutting back on other substantial amounts of public finances, but these are essential investments that we can at least manage the situation in some way, systematically and objectively, and also comply with the international commitments to which we have committed ourselves. No one could think, for example, of the situation that Finland and Europe are facing in this regard last spring. The most important thing is, of course, that it is now under the control of the authorities and no one thinks that Finland, Sweden or Denmark or any European country alone can resolve this issue of asylum. This requires a global solution, better UN resources in countries of origin, refugee camps in neighbouring countries and, above all, cooperation between EU countries and European solutions. I hope that we will be able to get some information on them after today's EU summit. Mr President! The draft amending budget is quite necessary and justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u109	Mr President! The greatest moments of amazement in my life, or a long period of time, were about four years ago. Then Mr Viitanen — who just resented the absence of Minister Stubb when he did not listen to what he said, and now Mr Viitanen does not listen to what I have to say and I can disapprove of him — the record stuck to a point where he repeated for over six months how the spike has been caught. Well, if he meant these cash flows that went to Greece and other countries in southern Europe, then in the end this SDP achievement cost Finnish society EUR 12.6 billion, of which EUR 1440 million had to be paid immediately, when we received such good guarantees, a return exchange agreement in the name of a real one. It was the biggest scam of this millennium, and Mr Heinäluoma has now been growing this scam quite often, but a little differently, but he has forgotten this, which is something really big. Among their achievements in previous years from the last millennium is the abolition of wealth tax, which would now be very necessary. In other words, these amounts could now make a considerable difference to the current economic situation, but now they are being corrected by these amending budgets and so on. But this has all happened, and these government decisions move forward, and Finnish society must be brought up. We don't have a lot of options.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u110	Mr President! Here, at the beginning of the debate, the word 'disturbing' was used, and I must say that as a Member of Parliament for the first term, there are many things that are confusing in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u113	Mr President! I was prepared to speak on the third amending budget, which is now the subject of the debate, but because today we have to cut off almost everything, I will also try to shorten my speech. However, I would like to thank the Minister for Labour for his bold, frank speech. It had the energy and spirit of doing what was needed, just the kind of Oy Suomi Ab spirit that we as a nation need as well as as as a parliament. Mr President! As far as this amending budget is concerned, it is understandable that some of this Chamber is not satisfied with the amounts proposed by the government. Usually, we decision-makers prefer to ask for more money than to look for savings. However, the Sipilä government has chosen a responsible and financial path, and less has to cope with it. The Minister of Labour is committed to setting out this encouraging path to reform. What, then, can we achieve with these additional appropriations? As far as the section of the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, it is easy to agree with what Mr Hongisto has just said. What about the additional resources for these employment services? Too often employment is hindered by bureaucratic and multidisciplinary support systems that do not encourage employment. At the moment the situation is that municipalities and cities are paying for labour market support with endless spikes. We simply cannot afford this anymore. With the same or even less money, we can do better. It is therefore necessary to put into practice the experiments that the government has already committed itself to in the Government Programme, including how unemployment benefit and income support can be coordinated. In fact, the municipalities of the Oulu region have provided ministers with a proposal for access to the table to carry out an open-minded experiment on employment, which would be an overall economic test for both individuals and society. The aim is to prevent and break periods of long-term unemployment, i.e. to use this unemployment benefit to support education and employment. This would therefore apply, among other things, to the coordination of unemployment benefit and pay in education and employment. The measures of the experiment save the cost of society, support the business activity, which, instead of passive waiting, makes the economic wheels spin and allow them to spin, both for the individual and for the community. This The aim of the Oulu Employment Experiment is to promote the self-motivated activity of the unemployed by piloting, among other things, educational contract models and apprenticeship training, which was also mentioned yesterday in this Chamber, as well as flexible models for the coordination of training and job search. In addition, the aim is to promote the possibilities of taking up work and participating in active activities and a culture of experimentation that builds on municipal employment services, especially for young people who are currently excluded from these services. Let us hope that this employment experiment can proceed. That would also be an example of how less money could help us achieve more. At the end of the day, I would also like to thank Mr Filatov, who spoke with good economic thinking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u114	Mr President! Last spring, when we discussed the second amending budget for this year in this Chamber and in the Committee on Budgets, the government announced that the third amending budget would be submitted to Parliament at the end of October. This frightened the Committee on Finance and the whole Parliament. After all, the Committee on Finance was unanimous in it and wrote it out in its report that we should be prepared for an additional budget that would be employed right at the beginning of the autumn period, and all opposition parties also had a statement on this issue. As early as the spring, it was known that the start-up money, the pay subsidies and the rest of the money were running out of Ely centres, and then, in an expert consultation, we heard that the need for money was 110 million. Well, today it has been specified here that, at this stage of the year, when the time has passed, the real need for money is there at 90 million. When Mr Laukkanen said that he was confused, I was also confused when today the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, stressed very strongly that this was an additional Microsoft budget. This decision to grant an additional budget came, of course, immediately after the terrible situation in Salo with regard to Microsoft was revealed. But there is doubt that the government would have stuck to its old plan without Microsoft and failed to implement Parliament's will and left the additional budget in late autumn, when it would no longer have had any significance for active labour policy measures. Then let's go to this dimension. As has been shown here, the need is about 90 million. Minister Lindström must have asked for, demanded or proposed 30 million, or only a small part of the real need, and now there is the 20 million which includes one and another in this amending budget. Of course, this will not be enough. The allocation reserve, 70 million, which will then remain for the later supplementary budget, will certainly be very much needed. Well, what about this big picture of the economy? We will return to this on Tuesday next week, when we start the referral debate, I am sure much more in depth, but there is already reason in this context — in a somewhat similar way as Mr Laukkanen — to question this dogma of one truth in economic policy, the fact that we now have a huge gap in competitiveness and productivity and the unit cost of work and the level of our debt that is now helping nothing but to put out the lights in practice. This means that this cycle, which has constantly increased unemployment, increased government debt and, above all, increased inequality, would only continue and the rise from the economic downturn would go further. When this is accompanied by the government's coercive measures and the very high risk that the labour market situation is going to be in crisis and there will be problems in the longer term, it will really require a new kind of assessment. There is much to be said about this intimidation with debt. I'll read a quote that I'll repeat next Tuesday, but it doesn't matter: "You rob your children when you don't make reasonable investments with free money." This quote is not from Mr Arhinmäki or from Mr Aino-Kaisa Pekos; it is from the economist Joseph Stiglitz and it has been said in recent days. In other words, this debate on the appropriateness of this big line of economic policy is taking place at a very high level. That is why I am sure that next week, when we have a budget referral debate and an economic plan debate, we will come back to this. But this is now very modest of what the government is doing with this additional budget. Of course, there is little room for manoeuvre in this framework, but it would certainly have taken more than what is in this additional budget for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u115	Mr President! In previous speeches, I have addressed the problem areas of the additional budget and the great picture of the economy. Now I was thinking of drawing attention to one point that should have been found in this budget, and since it does not yet exist, I hope that it will be the next, namely the question of a new group of undocumented people, which was discussed by Parliament in the spring, which the majority of Parliament considered to be an unrealistic scenario even in the spring and which has now become significantly more likely in recent months. I am talking about the situation when we have an asylum seeker who receives a negative asylum decision but comes from a country where he cannot be returned reluctantly. In such a situation, the legislation adopted in February puts a person outside the asylum system, of course. He stays in Finland, but he is not granted a residence permit or a work permit. So he can practically hang out here, he cannot be sent out of Finland, but on the other hand he is not officially covered by any residence permit. Since a significant proportion of asylum seekers coming to Finland will come from Iraq, which is one of the most important areas of this kind, it can be said with certainty that we will have at least hundreds, possibly even thousands, of these paperless ones in a year's time, and this group will be different from the previous paperless groups where the undocumented groups we have had so far have had to hide both from society and from the authorities, so now this new paperless group will not have to hide. Well, in our legislation, when we look at the Constitution, there are certain fundamental rights guaranteed to every person who is in Finland's jurisdiction. On the basis of the Constitution, it can be assumed that these persons too, i.e. this new group of undocumented people, are entitled at least to comprehensive school if they are of compulsory school age, are entitled to income support from municipalities and are also entitled to wider health services than just these acute services, which are now guaranteed by legislation to everyone who goes to a health centre sick. In practice, in order for such a person to have access to these services and because it is not specifically dealt with in primary legislation, in most cases he or she has to claim them through a court of law. Until now, the undocumented have not done so because they have been careful of the authorities and have had to hide. In the case of this new group, there is no longer any such obstacle, so it is quite certain that, in the future, we will have to deal with a large number of cases in which the limit is drawn to what is the minimum set-aside guaranteed by the Constitution for these people. Until then, this group — because it cannot go to work and because it does not leave Finland — may have income support, a grey economy or a different criminal activity. And so it is about hundreds, potentially thousands of people. Now, what absolutely should be done in Finland, at the very least, should be the start of some kind of process, which will consider what to do with these people: Who organises, what pays, whether everything really has to be recycled through the judiciary, or do we have some shorter roads? Or do we just let it go and wonder when the side effects are obvious to everyone? I would hope that we would rather look ahead in time and anticipate things rather than think about them when we have the effects of what has not been dealt with and we have to deal with the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u116	Mr President! In the context of the amending budget, a few words about the economy will probably be allowed more generally, and as a summary of this debate in the Chamber, it can probably be said that next week's debate will be interesting when the starting point for this large picture of the means is so different. As Social Democrats, we still do not believe that by cutting wages we create more jobs, but that, unfortunately, we increase unemployment because when purchasing power disappears, it disappears from the very companies that provide services that people have access to when they have that money. If wages are cut, as the plan is, it will be targeted at the jobs that provide those services. Another question of principle is whether we will be able to increase productivity by cutting wages. Will it improve well-being at work, working life, new innovations, new productizations that have actually improved that Finnish productivity so far? We have now moved on to a method of wage cuts. When Finland has always criticised China, India, Pakistan, Nepal, Africa for distorting competition, is it now the same? Well, these are social democratic ideas, but I am quite impressed if the government does not listen to Etla, who has weakened its economic forecast because of these government cuts. That is why our economic forecasts for both the end of the year and next year are weaker than before, not because of the global economy, but because of the government's actions. We need to make savings. I'm sure they'll agree on that. But I was also rather confused that the place where we can afford to save money is an investigation into the black economy and financial crime, nearly a hundred less than a year’s per person. When we know that, last season, when resources were increased to investigate the shadow economy on both the tax side and the police side, they multiplied several times back to the good state economy, it has now been decided to save on this side. Maybe I could have come up with some other kind of savings. The employment money, as previous speakers said, was a very acute issue as early as June. At the time, the entire Committee on Finance, including the government parties, stated that they would have been needed already in the summer and that this amount would be 90 million. We are now late in September, i.e. one third of the amount that was known to be needed. The Social Democrats will at least add more to this amending budget for both labour and business services, i.e. start-up money and pay support, but also for additional vocational training and adult education because all these people who are now unemployed are no longer employed in the same sectors but need something new. We do not have the chance to make the mistake of the 1990s, when many people were left for decades at a lower employment rate, when they were allowed, so to speak, in terms of studies, but also in terms of general health and ability to work, and it is therefore important that we continue to be able to take this people's lives forward with pay support, both in companies and in organisations. I was also at this kind of youth workshop this afternoon, and there, too, that reality is quite brutal. If there is no employment support, young people’s workshops will not be able to employ or then go exclusively to the traineeships. I welcome and welcome this, but I am sure that even after the Minister of Finance has said that there will be a need for the next amending budget, that asylum seekers' affairs will be investigated by the police, Raja and the Finnish Immigration Service. This is necessary, but at the same time we must also see to it that these municipal compensations are sufficient when the places are in place, because municipal politicians know well about their own provinces and municipalities, what the situation is there, how much can be added to the existing resources by means of these municipal allowances, which currently exist, to day-care centres, education and other places. That three years is a good time. We may have to think about time, but maybe even more of that level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u117	Mr President! The state understands the importance of agriculture for Finland and Finns. We eat the world's cleanest food without additives produced by Finnish farmers. In addition to the well-being of our citizens, it is also a question of security of supply in times of crisis. We must bear in mind that our farmers must be able to feed the nation under all circumstances, including if, for some reason, food imports from abroad are prevented. Due to EU economic sanctions, Finnish farmers are no longer exporting enough products to Russia. This is causing a fall of hundreds of millions of euros for farmers. The EU compensates for lost export revenue but only a fraction of its expenditure. This is hard to understand, let alone accept. The extra costs come from a weak and watery summer. The fields covered water in many places, and the growing season was short and the harvest was small. It's not the usual way to fill a grain board. The farmer’s hourly earnings are only a fraction of the industry’s earnings, and farmers do not have return money or pecs. The government recognises the pain of farmers and cares about their survival and wants to compensate for the financial difficulties faced by farmers in order to enable as many farmers as possible to continue their activities and to cope with the payments of loans and bills within the prescribed period. Unfortunately, in the current extremely tight economic climate, we cannot afford to allocate more than EUR 20 million to support agriculture. It is not enough to cover losses, but it is a clear indication and a signal that the government is aware of its responsibilities and is also concerned about the Finnish farmer, thereby also giving faith in future growing seasons. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u118	Mr President! The current lack of employment appropriations is not the fault of this government. This gap has been built in previous years and by previous governments. One very bad thing that happened at the turn of last year was that we changed the pay subsidies legislation. As if half-heartedly there was no such legislation on overtime, which led to the fact that the Ministry of Employment now instructs the employment offices so that the person must have 300 days of labour market support or basic income support before a wage subsidy can be given for his employment. The result was that there were people who had been unemployed for 500 days and 300 days, that is, 800 days of unemployment and as little money as possible before they could be employed. This wasn't the point of the law. Not once does the law say that you have to be unemployed for 300 days or that you have to be unemployed for one day. This was also the response of the then Minister for Labour, Lauri Ihalainen. But for some reason the spirit of the law did not reach the Ministry of Labour, but the Ministry of Labour took a different line. At the same time, employment appropriations were earmarked here in Parliament and earmarked for the youth guarantee and for the long-term unemployed. This led to the fact that when so many young people were covered by the Youth Guarantee, as we know — now I do not remember the exact figure — but when there were no training and no jobs in those municipalities, the money was not used because it was earmarked. We have a situation in this country that we are putting the money into the ymma, as it were, and it cannot be used for anything else unless it is used for what it is intended for. So it was not possible to deal with this matter of pay subsidies. At the moment, a different problem is coming for us, something that has not been taken into account in this additional budget, and I really hope that this will be taken into account in the next supplementary budget. The Tornio case is now on the table. We have 14,000 more unemployed people in this country. No person who has walked over the Tower has a job here. They must earn a living here if they are allowed to stay in the country. We have to be able to support them, and I would like to point out that in two weeks, 14,000 have come. By the end of the year, there will be 112,000 of them in this formula. This is today's crisis. This is today's problem. When these people come, you need training places for children, you need housing for people, you need beds for homes, tables, chairs, dishes, you need food, you need clothes. We'll be deep in the swamp before this year is over. This hall must awaken to action now. Even if we close the borders — I am not saying that we have to go there and close the borders — there are already 14,000 here, and these people have to be dealt with. We've got to find some money. We can now cry that only 30 million will come into employment. It's not gonna be good enough for anything. And before we can spend the money that is now in the budget and what is going to be in the new budget, I do not want to be a fortune teller, but I am afraid that this budget will many times be bullied because we have uncontrollable expenses. We cannot leave people without food, warmth, cleanliness and medicines when they need them. This is a big problem, and this is a problem that belongs to this country. This was a moment earlier about undocumented people and it was said that this is the way the Finnish Constitution defines it, and so it is: the Finnish Constitution does not refer to Finnish citizens, it talks about people, and all immigrants are human beings, and then they are entitled to this. The Finnish Constitution is laid down in this Chamber. All its changes and nuances are laid down in this Chamber. This hall has a responsibility, a responsibility to care for the people who come here, to whom we open our doors, but it also has a responsibility to care for the people who are already in the country that lives here, whatever their nationality. We cannot push the other side away and only take the other side out. We are also responsible for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u119	Mr President! The Finnish state's money is scarce. Surely we would like to give money everywhere, but now we have to look at what are the most important and necessary targets. The first thing, indeed, is employment. We would need a lot more money for that, none of us deny it. But now, when the situation is that there is absolutely no money and there is a need to put an end to living in debt, the municipalities will have to pay these unemployment costs after 300 days of unemployment, according to the new regulations. This is a very large additional bill of millions of euros for many municipalities, and the municipalities are already in serious difficulties with payment. The municipalities have considered how to remedy this situation. In the past, it has been possible to correct this by using the employment package, but now that the state no longer has the money to give to this employment, what must be done? Kemijärvi made a presentation for me, which I really think is worth taking forward. In other words, the proposal went in such a way that the municipalities would be given a new package of measures. Even if it could be there as a pilot at Kemijärvi, you could first try how it works. In other words, the municipalities would be given easier models to employ and thus use this money themselves so that they would not have to be paid in the form of fines to the State. And what this would mean in practice would be that, for example, if municipalities were laid off, then it lay-off would not, however, be an obstacle to employing such hard-to-employ persons in the municipality. Then there could also be some kind of productive work, which means that the production side would not be considered to be non-compliant. The third point could be, for example, that the municipality could give this money, which now goes to the State, to some company that the company is employing, but in a way that would not be considered to be prohibited in support of the companies. What these methods and patterns are — we really should start a discussion now, how the municipality could spend this money in another way. We have to start thinking about how we help municipalities to deal with this employment obligation. Then the second thing that was now very much on the table in this amending budget is agriculture. Agriculture is in a very difficult economic situation for a number of different reasons, as has already been very clear on these issues today. I am sure that the next speech will be even better when one of the experts from the agricultural sector in the centre tells us about it. However, when very many farms are facing payment difficulties, such as our own farm in Lapland, our farm incomes have halved. In our place, it means, for example, that I have informed the tax office that we will no longer be able to pay tax advances on our farm, because the taxable income will certainly no longer come properly. And if it wasn't for my income, it wouldn't be our farm this year. Very few farms have the same chance as us of getting the money elsewhere. I myself am satisfied, but the situation for farmers is very difficult. This amending budget now supported, but the cosmetic issue is, of course, bringing EUR 20 million. In reality, much more would have been needed, but when you simply do not have what you can give in this situation. Now that we are looking at this difficult situation in agriculture, we must also find new methods of helping this very important industry. The first is that we really need to open up and ask ourselves whether we can pay the subsidies in good time this year. After all, the new programming period began on the agricultural side, and that has led us to the situation that very many payments will only be made next year. I have compared this to the fact that, for some farms, half of some income is paid is decided, only in the following year. How many employees would accept that the employer says that we will only pay half of your salary next year and again half of next year's income in the following year? This is a very difficult situation. The second point on the agricultural side, which comes to mind, is that if the financiers would then give more understanding and the transfer of loan payments to these farms, while in many farms the payment of interest alone causes pain. Thirdly, with regard to this amending budget, I would like to raise this matter of asylum seekers. Is this immigration, refugees, international migration, whatever this is,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u124	Mr President! We now have a well-targeted third amending budget — an amending budget which only in certain respects complements the actual budget. This is also the reason and the answer to why not all the problems that have emerged during this evening's debate have been corrected in this context. Responsible management of the economy, employment appropriations, the additional costs of refugees and the collapse of the profitability of agriculture are all subjects on which we should all be concerned and on which this amending budget has now contributed some additional resources. In particular, I am now looking at two sets of issues. First of all, I welcome the fact that this amending budget has also responded to the additional costs and the additional resources required by the refugee regime in our country. Since it has been very difficult to predict the number of refugees arriving and the allocation of additional resources seems to be dragging on, these resources will hardly be sufficient for the rest of the year, as has already been said in several speeches. However, the budgetary difficulty of a rapidly changing situation is one of the smallest problems of the refugee situation. I believe and hope that the State will provide the necessary resources to seize the situation, whether it is budgeted or not. The acute refugee situation must be dealt with, and the state must take responsibility for it. This responsibility also includes the fact that the State honours its promise to the municipalities that the costs necessarily incurred by refugees will not fall on the hands of the municipalities that are at the forefront of receiving refugees, where reception centres or emergency accommodation have been organised or where refugees have sought refuge on their own. The state must bear the financial burden of refugeeism; it must not fall on municipalities. This is also a prerequisite for maintaining the climate around the issue for recipients and recipients. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the crisis in the profitability of agriculture and the response to it with an additional budget of EUR 20 million. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, referred here earlier to the fact that the additional reduction in the food chain caused by the political crisis, Russia's counter-imposed sanctions, is more than EUR 200 million for the dairy sector alone. The Minister's attention is correct, but he did not stress that the additional bill will continue to grow at an accelerated rate. The subsidies cut by the previous government, low market prices, still rising production prices, lingering subsidies together with exceptional weather conditions are a slump and a link that Finnish agriculture will not last much longer. Finland’s agriculture is now in the worst crisis of its time in the EU. Frankly, the situation is unsustainable in all sectors of production. In this amending budget, 20 million, together with 9 million crisis support from the EU, are not large in terms of the gravity of the situation, but it is of help to the major profitability problems. I had hoped and worked to ensure that the crisis package had been presented for EUR 50 million, but in this very tight economic situation there was simply no more available. Now we need to focus not on buttering up the small sums of money, but on getting the money out quickly and targeting those who need it the most. We must also continue to work on finding other ways to alleviate the problems caused by this economic situation. One of these solutions would be the increase in the percentage of payments made by Mrs Maijala just now as regards what the previous government decided on them. The increase in advances as high as possible and the fact that, for example, direct payments could be made by mid-November at the latest would significantly alleviate the cash crisis on farms. Without regard to the region or the production sector, the farms are now experiencing a cash crisis, falling behind, and wages for their own work have not been raised for a long time. The situation is now critical, and we urgently need more positive news than these crisis subsidies, so that we do not end up with desperate solutions on farms. The problem for the future is that the greatest difficulties now lie with those who have invested most and built their future on agriculture. If young people run out of faith in the future, if young people are deprived of the preconditions for action, there will be no future in the field of roses. I therefore hope that crisis support will be targeted at investment and young farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u125	Mr President! Many speeches have been made here today on the part of the opposition on all the issues that they feel are wrong in the government and in the third amending budget now under discussion. However, the government is only at the beginning of the work ahead so that we can correct the mistakes that have been made in the past. When we discussed the first amending budget of the year here in February, I said, among other things: 'Finland is currently in a state of recession and is already in an unprecedented recession and investment is needed to reverse its course in this country, both from abroad and abroad. And Finland has significant ore reserves. The same is true in the bioeconomy, including forests and swamps. But we have an obstacle to this kind of so-called greenhouse." It costs billions a year, and it's of no use to anyone. I quote myself a little from last year: If there is a moustache on the rock, then the drill will not go into that rock, not of any kind. It's gonna be some kind of pilgrimage for scientists. And these same frogs are jumping on that road: for example, now that I came to Helsinki, I was able to dodge all the time if I didn't run over now. And of those you will not be made pilgrimages anyway. Then the swamps are also a great resource, but they have become a similar place for pilgrimage, and probably these who engage in this green sport do not go to see what kind of places they are. And the same in the forests: they have been protected by any form of Natura. When are we going to send such a signal to industry, industry and investors that it is worth investing in this country, which is what I was referring to? It costs billions of dollars, as I have just said: climate agreements, sulphur directives and many other articles that are making us miserable. For example, Finland’s emissions represent 0.1 per cent of global emissions. With that amount we will be able to jump any kind of flat foot and no matter how high, with the 0.1% emissions, and the situation on this planet will not change, but we will be able to make ourselves miserable, that is the result of it. Mr President! We simply cannot afford to waste money on any unproductive activities. Over the decades, we have been puffed up by a public sector that is likely to meet the needs of 20 million people. However, there are only about 5 million of us, a little fair. It is therefore excellent that the five-year term of protection has been included in the Government Programme in connection with municipal mergers. This unfair and costly arrangement of Greece should never have been created. I have on several occasions spoken in favour of the Estonian business tax model in this House. I also hope that it will at least be put to the test for a certain period of time, for example, in certain areas. These could be areas of sudden structural change. I believe that, with the Estonian tax model, investment would begin to take place and, therefore, the wheels of the economy would start to run. We all understand that the most important thing is to put our country's economy in order. That is why it is precisely entrepreneurship that must be supported. I think we're running out of time. - Thank you. [The first Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : the representative may continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u128	Thank you. — It may be noted that this debate on the amending budget did not involve this five-minute limit on the part of the Council of Presidents, and I therefore allow Mr Hakkarainen to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u129	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u130	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u131	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u132	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u133	Mr President! This is the Keva Act, which is the Municipal Pension Insurance Act. There are actually two sections here. The first part relates to this employment pension reform pending and under discussion here in Parliament and the second part to Keva's administration and the qualifications of the Board of Directors and CEOs in particular. Indeed, in this first section, it is intended that this new law will mainly include the existing provisions on the administration, supervision and financing of Keva under the municipal pension law. This proposal is indeed part of this pension reform, which combines the pension laws of the public sector, such as the municipal pension law, the state pension law and the pension law of the Evangelical Lutheran Church and the provisions on the pension provision of the staff of the Social Insurance Institution, with the same law. It is therefore also necessary to provide for new laws on the financing of pension provision for the state and the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Mr President! Compared to the law in force, the proposed provisions on the eligibility requirements of the CEO and the Deputy Executive Director, as well as the eligibility requirements of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, are new. All members of the Board of Directors would be required to have good reputation and good expertise in occupational pension insurance. The government as a whole would require good investment expertise, i.e. a collegial requirement for this investment activity. The qualification of the CEO and the Deputy Executive Director would include a higher university degree and the versatile experience required for the task, as well as practical leadership skills. Keva’s management is in a service relationship with Keva, and the eligibility criteria are in line with the eligibility criteria of the State’s senior civil service management. The provisions on risk management, internal control and internal audit of Keva are also new. All the above proposals are now bringing the proposed legislation closer to the employment pension insurance company legislation and bringing the legislation on Spring up to date. I recall that, during the last parliamentary term, when the administration and regulations relating to occupational pension insurance companies were specifically discussed here, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, as I recall, in this House too, we were talking about this and were asked and asked why, at the same time, there is no change in the Keva administration. This, which I am presenting here, corrects the lack. However, the legislation on spring cannot be fully consistent with the Employment Pension Insurance Company Act, since Keva is a public-law entity and is therefore of a different nature to that of employment pension insurance companies. It is proposed to maintain Keva's supervision at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u134	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u135	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u136	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u137	Mr President! Interesting to perform at the gym, where the last ladies just left — I mean representatives. Thank you all for being here. The aim of this draft law is, inter alia, to dismantle duplication of regulation and, within the framework of the national margin, to extend the possibilities of using new types of light vehicles in transport. In general, the draft law is implementing the objective of streamlining regulation and dismantling red tape in line with the Government Programme. Here too, I believe that the proposal is moving in the right direction. The proposed legislation would allow the use of new types of light-duty vehicles such as electric bicycles and light pedestrian or substitute electric light-duty vehicles in transport. Harmonisation of the procedure at EU level would reduce administrative costs for manufacturers operating nationally on export markets. This would possibly also eliminate the wrong kind of competition in the Member States. The Commission's aim has been to improve and harmonise the quality of production control of Asian manufacturers, in particular with regard to European operators, by means of new regulations. These measures will certainly improve the conditions for the functioning of the market and strengthen the internal market over a longer period of time. The development of the light-duty market is difficult to quantify, but the new EU regulation is expected to strengthen the popularity of electric bicycles in particular, and I welcome this very much. New type-approval requirements for more efficient electric bicycles will also improve business opportunities in Finland. Specific subsidies have already been granted to electric bicycles in several countries and the sales volumes of bicycles have developed faster in these countries than in traditional bicycles. It is estimated that by increasing the popularity of light traffic, the number of cars on short journeys can be significantly reduced. This would be more than desirable, especially in urban areas where distances are short. In its opinions, the extension of the use of light vehicles was seen as something to be welcomed, but there was a need for more clarity in the traffic rules. It was hoped that particular attention would be paid to the role of users of light vehicles and equipment in the role of pedestrians and cyclists. Even at the moment, cyclists often run in violation of regulations only on a pedestrian bus, often at a very high speed. I see that there may also be problems with the use of an electric bicycle if one wonders whether the vehicle is a bicycle or whether it is a pedestrian. Fortunately, as a result of our statements, the Road Traffic Act 45 and 45a§ Both have been specified that the role of pedestrian is limited to speed corresponding to walking speed. The pace of walking should be on the sidewalk. If the user of the device travels faster than the speed of the walk, he must comply with the rules of the bicycle operator. The opinion does not explicitly state the speed of walking. Is that the speed of walking that I use or the speed of racing that Essayah uses? I think there is too much room for interpretation. I also think that there is a good addition to Article 40(1) of the Act, in which the position of footsteps has been emphasised in the light of opinions. At this point, it provides for a pedestrian’s place on the road that the use of a sidewalk on a bicycle would only be possible if it could be done without harming other pedestrians. The fact that the user of a light electric vehicle would always be a cyclist if there was no sidewalk is also a good thing to be aware of. In this case, the position of the cyclists is always the right edge of the road, regardless of the speed. A class-specific 25 km/h speed limit has been proposed for light electric vehicles. The second key concern of the opinions was the use of new equipment to counter regulation and even the tuning of new equipment. I share this concern as well. The possibility of tune-up is always available on all devices and vehicles. This will certainly be a problem, especially among young users, also with this device. If new electric bicycles are tuned beyond the permitted speed limits, it is possible for the controller to address both the non-structurality of vehicles and the violation of traffic rules. In addition, in the case of a light electric vehicle, the tuning results in a penalty for non-compliance with the obligation to carry out a change survey. However, the liability does not apply to drivers under the age of 15. Mr President! With these comments, I consider the draft law to be very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-23-ps-38.u138	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 18 September 2015.
