ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Annika Lapintie requests exemption from membership of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Anders Adlercreutz requests exemption from the alternate member of the Commission of the Office. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u3	The 5th issue of the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by standing up and pressing the P button. I would like to remind both the honourable Members and the respondents that the maximum speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u4	Question number one: Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u5	Mr President! Big decisions are being made for Greece this week. In public terms, it has been suggested that the euro countries, including Finland, should accept the reduction of Greek loans. The Social Democrats have wanted to secure the money of Finnish taxpayers in the management of the euro crisis, and we have not accepted the solidarity of debts. This was also the line of the previous Finnish Government. The big question is whether the problems of the euro area will be resolved in the future through solidarity or not. Deputy Prime Minister Soini, you have opposed debt cuts in the past. Can you promise the Finnish people that the Greek debt will not be cut off and that Finland will not slip on the path of solidarity? I'm asking you to answer directly that every TV viewer gets a clear answer. It's about their money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u6	Mr President! The situation in Greece has been acute for five years. During the course of the various governments, Finland's consistent line, including when the Social Democrats were in the government, has been that debts are not being cut. This position is, of course, valid here because it is the Finnish line. The Finnish line is that debts are paid, commitments are taken care of and matters are handled in accordance with the rules. This is the absolute goal of the government, and it is quite clear to me that Finland will not accept debt cuts, and this is clearly also defined by the government, this common line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u7	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u8	Mr President! The previous government considered it most important that the role and money of Finnish taxpayers be safeguarded in the management of the euro crisis. Finland did not approve of debt solidarity or debt reduction. Finland negotiated guarantees to secure Finnish money. It'll be great if the new government continues on the previous government line. The path of solidarity in the euro area leads at its worst to reckless economic activity. The most important task in Finland is to safeguard the interests of Finns by all means possible. I repeat, because you have stated the objective, just to be sure, of that question: will you, Mr Soini, in all circumstances stick to the line that Finland does not accept the solidarity of debts and that the Greek debt will not be cut at the expense of the Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u9	Mr President! During the previous governments, Finland committed itself to both the Financial Stability Facility and the Stability Mechanism, and we are not, neither this government nor the fundamental Finnish party, any Syriza that then does not take care of the international commitments that some previous government may have made and which have capitalised these mechanisms. This government line is clear: we will not allow the debt to be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u10	Mr President! As late as last autumn, some 3% of economic growth was forecast for Greece, but unfortunately, since the local parliamentary elections, political instability in Greece has increased and has contributed to the fact that Greece will no longer have new investments and the Greeks will not pay taxes because they do not know what political decisions are being taken in Greece. It is genuinely possible that Greece will fall into insolvency: there will be no agreement in the Eurogroup today, even at new meetings, and when that Tuesday comes, we will end up in a situation where Greece is insolvent. I would like to ask the government and its Deputy Prime Minister Soin: Has the government made a plan for this kind of insolvency or option B? And are you also prepared in this option B to hold on to the guarantees that were negotiated to Finland during the last parliamentary term, which are currently in the account, over EUR 900 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u11	Madam President! There are two interpretations of guarantees. All I'm saying is that one calls them collateral, another calls them a profit swap. But to your original question: It is very clear that in Greece the situation has deteriorated since the change of government took place. The economy has stalled, credibility has gone down and, apart from the fact that there is some sort of primary surplus. Greece’s potential crisis and insolvency: It will be a serious matter if you think about it and, of course, the right way in the first place, but it is now hindsight. It would have been freedom to bail according to Iceland's model that if you are unable to meet your obligations, then you will go bankrupt through insolvency,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u12	Mr President! I agree with Minister Soin that the crisis should have been handled in a different way in the first place, but when during the last parliamentary term Finland negotiated guarantees for itself — you can call them, Mr Soini — there is still more than EUR 900 million in the account. That is why I would like to ask you again the basic question that if you go into option B, that is, Greece goes bankrupt, is the government prepared to do everything in its power to ensure that the Finnish guarantees remain in that situation as well, and then, if necessary, Finland will also receive that money for itself if Greece does not pay its own obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u13	Mr President! Finland has a revenue exchange agreement not with the Greek State, but with Greek banks. At the time of the conclusion of this agreement, the Minister of Finance was illegally concealing these documents, which only by a court order
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u14	Madam President! The government has the right line here. It is truly regrettable that in Greece the new government abandoned the principles of good governance. We know that if a country is unable to collect taxes and make a comprehensive and responsible budget, the money will go into a black hole in any euro country and in the circumstances of the euro area. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: do you think that sufficient effort has been made in the euro area to ensure good governance for Greece in order to re-establish this path where the state can cope with its debts?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u15	Madam President! Of course, it is a matter for the Greeks what kind of parliament they vote for themselves, and that is what they get, including in Greece. In other words, when the Greeks voted for the Syriza regime, unfortunately that regime has not brought the country to stability. It has not stimulated economic growth and its confidence capital is weak. But it is entirely a matter for the Greeks — not for Finns, not for Europeans — what kind of decision they make. It is now to be feared that, if some sort of solution emerges in Brussels, for example, it will not pass through in Greece in its own Parliament, because there can be an internal division within the Syriza party, and then there is the desperate situation that no one is properly in control of this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u16	Mr President! Deputising for the Prime Minister, you are also a foreign minister, and when you look at this overall situation in Greece at the moment, of course it contains many more than financial concerns. It concerns the internal instability of Greece, and it also includes the concern that we have seen recently that if we do not find friends for Greece in Europe, then they will be sought elsewhere and possibly outside Europe. I would have asked you to assess the extent to which you see these risks, that if Greece falls on the path of insolvency, its links with the European Union will be cut off in the wider sense. When the European Union, as such a community of values, has, among other things, acted together in response to the crisis in Crimea and other European shocks, to the refugee issues in the Mediterranean and so on, how do you see Greece's role in such a situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u17	Madam President! This was a very good and fundamental question. It is extremely serious if the foreign and security policy area there in Greece is to be destabilised. It has serious consequences. This may have been a cautious positive development for Cyprus in terms of Turkish-Greek rapprochement. This would be compromised. Greece is a NATO country. It's got huge defense expenses. There is also this internal situation: Greece has a military junta from the '70s. There are a lot of factors that could cause an explosion. Then it is also a matter of its own that energy cooperation and cooperation with Russia on gas pipelines took place, or was hurt, precisely at this time. There are great risks here that the balance of power, or stability, is being undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u18	Mr President! I would like to comment on this matter of asylum seekers, which was raised here. Greece is indeed one of the countries facing this great migratory pressure at the moment and precisely the illegal migratory pressure from the peripheral regions of Africa. We must be very concerned about the capacity of Greece to ensure this border security and the identification of these people who will then arrive in Greece, who will be identified as arriving in the Schengen area, because it is an essential part of our ability to solve this major European problem of migration to Europe at the moment and the problems that arise in connection with illegal migration and its mild phenomena, the smuggling of human beings, and the resolution of this whole problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u19	Mr President! Good Deputy Prime Minister! Indeed, Greece is a warning example for Europe as a whole that if the euro country does not pursue a responsible economic policy unless it itself balances its own budget and economy, it will ultimately lose its economic and partly political independence in the euro area. Greece has made a number of commitments to the other euro countries, and now that negotiations are resumed, Greece will certainly want to renegotiate them or reject them. Does the government intend to support the EU's policy of maintaining and maintaining the commitments it has made in the past, and what is your assessment of how other euro-area countries will respond to this issue? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u20	Madam President! For example, the IMF, which has a great deal of experience in dealing with serious crises around the world, strongly requires Greece to honour its commitments, and the IMF loan is the big loan that is about to fall next week. It is quite clear that if there is no solution before this, this IMF loan will not be paid out. What is the problem here, of course, apart from the moral hasardi, is that if one way or another the Greek debt were to be made easier, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and many others who have put the economy in order and complied with the agreements that have been concluded with the creditors would feel that they were going to have to deal with them. And this is an untenable road.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u21	Mr President! It seems rather surprising that Mr Ala-Nissila and also a little Minister Soini are blaming the current government, which has been in power for a few months, for the poor governance in Greece. Greece has had bad governance since 74 military juntas because the local coalition party, the New Democracy, and Pasok have allowed bad governance in Greece, a regime that has created an overly wide pension system, has not combated corruption, has not organised taxation in a fair way and so on. Structural reforms are needed in both Finland and Greece — more reforms than severe cuts. I would like to ask Minister Soin, the Prime Minister: the Finnish Government, in the negotiations, represents the line of support for structural reforms that create a sustainable, longer-term survival for the Greeks, rather than short-sighted ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u22	Madam President! No one wants anything bad for an ordinary Greek. It is quite clear that there are children, elderly people in distress — no one wants them to be ducks and oppressed. After all, the worst thing for a nation is to be deceived by its own leaders and elites, and that is what this is all about. Papandreou, Karamanlis, Karamanlis, Papandreou — this went on for years. One was on the right, and the other said he was on the left. But, of course, Mr President, Syriza has not been able to mess up everything in six months, but quite a lot. And when you asked for responsibility, this government has been in force for 20 days, and we haven't got everything messed up yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u24	Madam President! It is difficult to understand the thinking of the Greeks on this matter. They say that ordinary Greeks, ordinary pensioners, employees, are innocent of the situation in which the Greek economy is. If we start with this thinking, are not ordinary Finnish pensioners or German or Dutch taxpayers even more innocent of what is happening in Greece? With what logic should we pay off their debts? No way. Each country must bear its own debts. And this is the truth, even though the Greeks voted for Syriza, who promised to get rid of the debts and get the moon out of the sky. But many Finns think that Greece's departure from the euro area would be unproblematic for Finland, for example. I will ask Minister Soin about the government's assessment of what it would mean to Finns and Finland if Greece left the euro area.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u25	Madam President! Let's start with this collection and collection of taxes. There is a lot of wealth in Greece for people and companies, but for some reason it is not possible to collect taxes. The bay coves are full of expensive boats and fun moons, and there is room for improvement on this side of the tax collection, and quite a lot of room for improvement. Then, as far as the matter is concerned, what happens to Finland if Greece falls into a state of insolvency, it is a clear blow to the whole euro area and it creates instability, and no one can fully say what the consequences will be. That is perfectly clear. The government and certainly the Ministry of Finance already had certain contingency plans for this so-called option B last season, but I am not going to speculate on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u26	Madam President! During the last term, we dealt on several occasions in a large committee with a number of different crisis packages, including Greek packages several times. As a representative of the government, I found it difficult that we were not always allowed to see debt sustainability calculations until we had to form the Finnish position. And in the opposition, Mr Soini, you criticised this method. In my opinion, this criticism was justifiable. I ask you now: can you promise me, Mr Soini, that during this period you will put this matter in order, that we will have proper debt sustainability calculations before the Finnish position is formed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u27	Madam President! Again, I agree with Mr Östman, as I usually do, because he talks smart. But at the moment, for example, we have, of course, a mandate for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance there, but at the moment we do not have any sort of contractual basis there, because the Greek response has been inadequate. Well, perhaps there will be more today, and of course it is quite clear that if it goes past the mandate that has been made by the big committee, then the phone will first ring at the chairman of the committee, Mr Virolainen, and then the committee will take a position on whether this possible situation, for which the mandate is not enough, can be taken. But each of us knows that during one phone call in this situation, where no one really knows what has happened, it is difficult. It is often still the case at these EU meetings that an agreement has been reached and then the next three months will be clarified,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u28	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u29	Mr President! This issue of Greece is important not only in view of the current situation in Greece but also in terms of how the claims of Finns are secured in this situation. And it is also important for the future development of Europe. It is extremely important that the government adheres to this line, that each country bears its own debts. It is also important for the financiers who lend to the State. They need to know that they're assessing the risks correctly. I attach great importance to the announcement by Minister Soin, the Prime Minister, that the Finnish Government will not accept the reduction of Finland's claims and the reduction of Greece's debts. It is an important announcement, and it is good that the government has, at the mouth of the Prime Minister's deputy, made this announcement here. When you look at this further development, we know that there are different debts: There's a one-on-one debt that has no protection. Then there's this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u30	Madam President! The Government's programme says that Finland's overall responsibilities must not increase. This issue can also be interpreted in such a way that Finland adheres to its claims. That is perfectly clear. As far as the so-called income exchange agreement is concerned, of course — we are not Syriza — we will uphold everything that the previous governments have agreed on, and that is the Finnish way. When Finland has given a receipt, a woman and a man's word, it will, of course, be adhered to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u31	Next question: Mr Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u32	Madam President! Minister Rehn, in the latest consent of Fennovoima Oy, confirmed by Parliament, there is a clear precondition that Fennovoima's domestic ownership must be unquestionably demonstrated by the time the company submits an application for a building permit to the Government, i.e. by 30 June at the latest. If Fennovoima does not own at least 60 per cent of domestic ownership next Tuesday, will the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Government conclude that the project will lapse because the terms of the principle permit are not met? And secondly, if the domestic ownership required of Fennovoima is not clear next Tuesday, will the Ministry and the Government require the company to suspend project preparation in Pyhäjoki, where the company is currently building a road system, a fence in the planned power plant area, and cancel the expropriation of plots and cottages that it has carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u33	Madam President! This is, of course, a very important and topical issue. The deadline for meeting the requirements for the construction permit application for this Fennovoima Hanhikivi 1 nuclear power plant is next Tuesday 30 June, and this is based on the Government Resolution adopted by Parliament last December. It is for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment and the Government to assess whether these conditions for a permit for construction are met in relation to the total benefit of society and, in particular, the national ownership of 60 per cent. In the view of the Government, this is a very important national interest in ensuring ownership, i.e. a domestic interest,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u34	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u35	Mr President! I did not receive an answer from the Minister to my question as to whether the Government and the Ministry will conclude that the decision of principle will lapse if these conditions are not met by next Tuesday. However, I would like to ask again: if the conditions of the Fennovoima principle permit are not met by the deadline, will the Ministry and the Government also ensure that the planned power plant area will not be handed over to Rosatom on 1 July, next Wednesday? But I would also ask for an answer to my first question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u36	We still have five or six days and, above all, Fortum has five or six days to bring its own negotiations on Russian hydropower into such a position that Fortum can consider itself participating in this Fennovoima project. The government does not want to speak on behalf of the listed company Fortum and cannot do so, but I say this only as an existing fact. At this stage, I think it is unnecessary to anticipate what kind of decision this will take at the time when an application is submitted. Essentially, the Government and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy have the task of assessing this domestic ownership and sticking to this clearly expressed position of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u37	Madam President! It is true that it is a little early at this stage when the deadline is only next Tuesday — then we will know whether this domestic ownership has been restored. Now that it is known that two nuclear reactors have been closed in Sweden and we have a common Nordic electricity market, but there is not enough cable between Sweden and Finland to allow electricity to flow smoothly through it, which has led again to a significant increase in regional price differentials in electricity prices, I would have asked the Minister responsible whether projects of any kind have been considered on this side or whether there are ongoing projects in the area of electricity transmission between Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u39	Mr President! From 2008 to 2012, tens of thousands of jobs have been lost in industry, more than 55,000 in the machinery and equipment industry and the same amount in the electronics industry. We have a lot of energy-intensive basic industries with a lot of jobs at the moment. We have new electricity-intensive industries coming to Finland through data centers. The need for two nuclear power plants has been identified in the Energy Needs Report from the TEM side. It now seems that Olkiluoto 4 will not happen, and it now seems that the future of Hanhikivi's plant or Pyhäjoki power plant is in an uncertain situation. Now I ask: is the Government, the Government, prepared for the way in which this gap, which is about to remain for these two plants in Finland, will be replaced, and in what way will it be prepared if it is prepared?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u40	Mr President! I share the deep concern about the employment of Finns and I am concerned about industrial jobs, which is why we need a social pact and we need to restore the competitiveness of Finnish work and production. Part of this is ecologically sustainable and competitive energy production. Energy policy must be seen in a long-term perspective. Even in 20 days, the government has not yet had the opportunity — to quote the Prime Minister, Mr Soini — to mess with this issue, but we are deeply concerned about the way in which Finland’s energy supply can be resolved in the long term. That is why the Government Programme clearly sets out a strong direction towards sustainable green energy, i.e. the share of renewable energy in 50% and aims to eliminate carbon black.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u41	Mr President! The next week is extremely important for our investment and employment, but it is also important that this debate also conveys a clear message to Russia to those who are thinking about hydroelectric power stores that Finland adheres to this time limit and the condition of ownership, that it is not slipping away from it, it is now the days when decisions must be made there too. The question for the Minister is this other energy policy, the launch of these investments: what do you now, after the first 20 days of ministerial experience, have that basic assessment of the volume and potential of energy investment over the next few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u42	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen's view that it is important to send an unambiguous message to all the negotiating parties is very important, and because of that, yesterday, when Fortum's stock exchange announcement told about its own aspirations and views, I wanted to tell the Government that we will clearly and unambiguously follow this Parliament's clear will to ensure a 60% domestic shareholding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u43	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u44	Mr President! Minister Rehn answered Mr Vanhanen's question a little more directly than the original question. I therefore assume that the Government will adhere strictly to the terms of the decision in principle, and we will see next Tuesday what situation we are in. But we already know that in the last five years there has been a great energy revolution in the world. The profitability of solar power is five times higher today than it was at the time Fennovoima’s original decision was made. Three nuclear decisions have been taken in Finland in the 21st century, and no power plant has been completed. Would it not be time to move on to the long-term energy policy of creating work and exports for Finnish industry so that our energy cluster can grow, that we start investing in domestic renewable energy, to introduce it ourselves, to create domestic markets, to obtain reference facilities? This spring ten leading professors in the energy sector published a book on how Finland can participate in the energy revolution and make the economy rise again. It requires a whole new kind of thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u45	Madam President! Representative Niinistö's question to the presidents that this Fortum stock exchange release or any other factor does not change the time limit or this valuation of ownership. This is a clear position of the Government and reflects Parliament's clear will in December last year. I agree that we are living in a major energy revolution towards a sustainable green economy. In this context, it is very important to bear in mind climate objectives, and from the point of view of climate objectives, above all renewable energy and also non-emission-free nuclear energy are the energy sources that respond to these climate objectives. For my part, I believe that we should invest strongly in renewable energy and in a sustainable green economy, in accordance with the Government Programme. At the same time, we have to accept nuclear power
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u46	Next question: Mr Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u47	Madam President! In the Government Programme, it is stated that the shadow economy is actively being combated. However, the government does not intend to provide the police with the necessary additional funding. As a result, nearly a hundred financial investigators will be out of work. The Parliamentary Working Group on the Resource Needs for Internal Security and Justice has stated that the enhanced programme for the shadow economy and financial crime launched in 2012 should be continued. The programme has caught up with financial criminals and reduced crime opportunities, while supporting legitimate business activities and healthy competition. The Government Programme has set a target of an increase of EUR 150 million in tax revenues by bringing the shadow economy under control and strengthening the corporate base. Minister, how will the government address the fight against the shadow economy if there are not enough financial investigators? What are the real measures taken by the government to eradicate the black economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u48	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to the consolidation of the tax base and what can be done on the tax front, the right person to answer would probably be the Minister of Finance. But then on to these appropriations. It is the same phenomenon as in almost every society that we have very limited resources to combat the shadow economy, but there are 13.6 million which are divided between different ministries. The police account for a few million of this, but the fact is that there is less money available. We will do everything we can to ensure that, with the existing resources, we are able to allocate the resources the police have to direct, to effectively eradicate the black economy and to investigate financial crime, and we will try to achieve as good results as possible. At the same time, we will begin the preparation of a report on the state of internal security and justice, and here we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u49	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u50	Madam President! It has been found that research into the informal economy and its clearing up are always much higher than what is invested in it. I'm gonna ask you one more time. What are the real measures, and with what resources? What are the means by which the shadow economy can be controlled and tax revenues raised in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u51	Mr President! Within the limits of the appropriations we have, we will be directing them as effectively as possible, so that every euro that is being spent to eradicate the black economy can have the best possible effect. We have excellence in the police organisation, in the tax administration, and we are doing this work with the resources we have. But, in fact, there was a bit of a gap between the fact that, in 16 years, we still have a reasonable and major challenge for the police, if we look at this economic framework, we will be working on a report in which we look at the resources and tasks of the police and internal security, and then together we will also make priorities and priorities. I believe that the eradication of the black economy is one of the very central priorities to which we must pay attention, among other things, for the reasons raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u52	Madam President! Indeed, the parliamentary working group on internal security and justice proposed not only that EUR 20 million in the fight against the shadow economy, which was in the last parliamentary term, but also some EUR 70 million, which could close the gap that is growing, among other things, in the police budget. Yes, there is a very worrying situation here, given that there is only EUR 50 million in the government programme, that is, about half of what the parliamentary working group on internal security put forward quite unanimously. That in practice means a shortage of several hundred police officers at 2019 level, which will also, of course, contribute to the fight against the shadow economy. When I know that all the government parties before the elections unanimously believed that internal security resources were kept at the current level and that the number of policemen, for example, would not be reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u53	Mr President! First of all, from the point of view of the police and from the point of view of internal security, this 75 is not really an extra money, but it is compensation for the cuts that have been made during your period, done together. That this hole did come about earlier. Now the government has decided to add EUR 50 million in a situation where we are cutting 4 billion from all sides of society, and that is an important contribution to internal security, it is a strong consideration of the parliamentary will that has been shown in the last period. 50 isn't 75, but it's about patching up the hole that was born there. This 50 is, as I said just now, a reasonable year of 16 years. That is why we carefully report by which we believe that we can guarantee a good level of internal security, we can guarantee that the Finnish citizen can count on help when he needs it, and Finland will continue to be the safest in the world in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u54	Madam President! It's a very important question. It is very rare for us to have a parliamentary working party that comes to a conclusion that the government then does not respect. Now we have a situation where a lot of resources are being taken away from justice in this new Government Programme: cutting 20 million in 2018 and 40 million in 2019, and these appropriations for the informal economy are also gone. In order for internal security to function well, the whole chain must be in order — the police, the prosecutor, the judiciary and the enforcement. How has the government planned to solve this equation now that resources are being withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u55	Madam President! That's the real concern of Congressman Henrikson, my predecessor. So the situation is that there are already teams of inquiry, the factions you set up, which are, among other things, interfering with them, getting these savings, i.e. district court, prison network, etc. Each party will have to participate in these efforts, including the legal side and internal security, for which we are all concerned. None of these efforts will be spared, and this, of course, will hurt, but it will.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u56	Next question: Mr Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u57	Mr President! The beginning of summer has been cold and rainy. I'm sorry about the vacationers, but I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u58	Mr President! The spring of farmers has really been painful because of the constant rains when, normally during May, the sowings are completed. Now we are approaching the end of June, and in many places the work is far from complete, and it is good not in its early stages. As regards the last day of sowing as defined in that regulation on 30 June, everyone understands that the EU regulation will not be amended a week. That day will remain, but it is precisely for that purpose that the regulation has the exception of force majeure. And common sense tells us that if the field is too wet for sowing, the farmer will have an overwhelming barrier to planting by the deadline. In this case, he must simply tell the agricultural administration of that force majeure, and the agricultural administration must understand the painful situation of farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u59	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u60	Mr President! With regard to that first question, I referred to summer weather and holidaymakers. To the minister responsible, I will extend the question of this approaching holiday season. Finns are a well-known cottage people, and more and more people spend much longer in their summer resort than in the summer season that begins now. Many people would dream that a summer house or cottage would become a permanent home. At the same time, however, we are aware that many regulations and standards prevent Finns from having these opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u65	Next question: Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u66	Madam President! The judgments of the District Court of Helsinki on Tuesday in the case of mass rape in Tapanila show once again that our legislation and case law on sexual offences do not correspond to the high seriousness and judgment of these acts. Sexual crime is a very serious and reprehensible crime against the integrity of a human being, causing the victim a great and long-term, even life-threatening... [President MariaLohela : I beg your pardon,representative,wait a moment. — I would now ask the Chamber to be quiet so that we can hear the question. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u69	Madam President! An extremely important and topical issue. In recent years, court rulings have been reported frequently in the public domain, particularly concerning violent offences and sexual offences. In these contexts, it has been pointed out that the penalties for crimes have been mild and that they do not correspond to the general sense of justice. Well, before drawing a straightforward conclusion on possible ways of working, it is necessary to assess what is meant by a general sense of justice and what the citizen's view of a functioning criminal justice system is in the end. This is why I have launched this kind of project in order to define the general sense of justice and this issue. It is a comprehensive research project, such as a population-based interview study, in which randomly selected respondents are asked for their assessment of suitable penalties. Then, on the other hand, there is a panel of judges with judges
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u70	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u71	Madam President! In the Government Programme, the Government has outlined the development of legislation in such a way as to review the level of punishment for serious sexual offences against children. This entry is really great, and it also supports the will state of the previous Parliament. A few legislative initiatives were taken in the Parliament on this matter. Every crime against children is something that we must do everything we can to prevent. So I ask you, Minister: how is this entry now going to proceed, and in what way, as a society as a whole, are we going to combat these outrageous crimes that no innocent person, the child, should be the victim of?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u72	Madam President! The goal of the Government and the Government Programme is that in Finland legal protection is effective and the penalties correspond to the general sense of justice, and this was a strong entry. According to this programme, this will be done in such a way as to ensure that the penalties for offences are proportionate to the reprehensibility of the offence. The level of punishment for violent offences and serious sexual offences against children will be reviewed. And this is the job we're doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u73	Madam President! The minister there said good things that have been included in the government programme. It also states that the status of victims of crime will be improved by means of legislation. And that is precisely this improvement in the status of the victim of rape, either by changing the minimum penalty or the criteria for qualification, that is quite clear. But there can also be a variety of penalties. Now there is absolute and conditional punishment. The Government Programme has also included, on an experimental basis, the addition of a short unconditional prison sentence to a conditional prison sentence. At the same time, at least it would be my wish to include in it — especially for young offenders — such as substance abuse, rehabilitation, education and training. I wish this kind of thing would move forward in that government and become a government proposal in the near future. What do you think about this, Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u74	Madam President! Representative Tolvanen: A very important observation, and I, of course, fully follow the record of the Government Programme. They are my guiding principle, and they are the guiding principle of the government, and I am sure that this matter will also be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u75	Madam President! As has already been revealed in this debate, sexual crimes are crimes that very often affect the life of the victim. In another way, fear, fear can come into life, fear can move, fear can live a normal life that everyone has the right to. In order for victims to get beyond these experiences to live the normal, safe life, we need services, services for them in that situation. But just as much is essential how the victim is received when such a crime has taken place. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: how do you feel, for example, that, in police training today, it is possible to take due account of the fact that victims are properly received after this serious crime? Unfortunately, we have heard from various studies that always
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u76	Mr President! I'm on my way to get to know police training on the spot in Hervanta and I'm sure I'll be much wiser after that. But I think that this issue and this angle of income that you raised is extremely important, because I believe that the right kind of custody and treatment of the victim of crime from the very beginning is an absolutely central part of this criminal investigation and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u77	There is still one more question to be asked: Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u78	Irade fru talman! Det är många som är oroliga just nu för vad som ska hehda med arbetsrehabitingen i vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u79	Madam President! The overall reform means that the concept of rehabilitation must already be defined in a way that meets the requirements of working life in the 2020s. Let's get out of the basics, what that rehabilitation is, what the whole, what the things are about. Mental health rehabilitation is quite different from some rehabilitation after a musculo-skeletal injury. The overall reform of the rehabilitation legislation is to put together the changes in the legislation that have taken place over the decades, which in some cases have even gone in very different directions. Let's get to the basics from the conceptual point of view. Then, Madam President, another point: Yes, the task of rehabilitation will be an essential part of, for example, the division of work and the extension of working careers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u80	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 3 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take no longer than 3 minutes. It is also allowed to speak from one's own place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u81	Madam President! Last year, a number of maternity care professionals, midwives, nurses, doctors and a large number of mothers did a huge job collecting over 66,000 names, a large part of the support for the forms literally in a small time. Why this effort? The requirement is to maintain existing maternity hospitals, to maintain an important part of good, well-functioning, primary maternity care for birthers and babies, to ensure the possibility of safe delivery close enough. There must of course be a 24-hour emergency sectional preparedness in a delivery hospital. The gynecologist, the anaesthesiologist and the surgical team must be present quickly. This expert treatment group is responsible for and has also received training in the initial treatment and possible resuscitation of a newborn born in poor condition. Thus, the first treatment of a child born in poor condition depends on a skilled care team and not on a single paediatrician on the spot. However, on the basis of the on-call regulation, births would only be concentrated on large units if there is no 24-hour pediatrician service in the hospital. With the closure of maternity units, ambulance births have increased and would increase further. Even now, every five days, the mother gives birth to her baby on her way to the hospital. Studies show that babies born prematurely in particular have six times the risk of dying on the way. There's no way to relieve the pain in the trachea. There's not much we can do about any massive bleeding. Changes in the fetal heart sounds and possible lack of oxygen are not diagnosed and so on and so on. Large maternity hospitals are already at the limit of their activities. The facilities are small, the staff is a little busy. Medicalisation would increase further and costs would increase. Small units, on the other hand, have become accustomed to predicting and sensitive to changes in the course of childbirth and heart curves. These are easily reported to the on-call gynaecologist, who often comes into the unit and is often literally very close if prompt assistance is needed. In large hospitals, on the other hand, distances are often long and the doctor may be closed elsewhere. Madam President! I am talking about this not only as a three-son child but also as a specialist in gynaecology and childbirth in hospitals of different sizes. It would be a huge mistake to stop small birthing hospitals. On the contrary: unless
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u82	Mr President! Before I go on to comment on the issue, I would like to congratulate the citizens' initiative. Collecting nearly 67,000 signatures is quite an achievement. The reform of the on-call system was part of the structural policy programme of the previous government. In spite of RKP’s opposition, there was a point in the on-call regulation, which stipulates that at least 1000 births per year are concentrated in care units. The concentration of births has been motivated by the economic benefits of concentration. According to the claim, a larger maternity hospital is more cost-effective in organising childbirths. This argument has no truth in the light of statistics. For example — and I am now using Porvoo Hospital as an example — the financial figures of the Porvoo Hospital completely refute this claim. According to HUS’ 2014 service price list, giving birth at Porvoo Hospital is tens of per cent cheaper than at Helsinki University Hospital. Since the maternity activities of Porvoo Hospital meet all the other criteria — and I would stress this: all the quality criteria of the on-call regulation, it is completely absurd that the regulation adopted by the previous government provides for a threshold of 1000 births which threaten the operation of the most cost-effective maternity unit in the HUS region. I now hope that Minister Ruhula will use common sense and remove the demand for 1,000 births. It is under the sovereign authority of the minister and ministry. I also hope that Minister Mäntylä, who unfortunately is not here today, will stand by and continue to do everything possible to repeal the regulation on the number of births. I would now like to put a question to Mr Ruhula: how do you intend to do this? If all other qualitative criteria are met for the delivery unit, then if less than 1,000 births remain, then is this requirement not quite unreasonable?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u83	Madam President! The Emergency Services Act is a hard piece to swallow for many maternity hospitals. The threat of extinction is evident in several localities. Finland’s large surface area poses special challenges to our maternity hospital network. We need to be able to ensure that birthing trips do not get out of hand. The citizens' initiative to amend the on-call regulation in relation to childbirth is a sign of genuine concern among Finns about the decline in birthplaces. The Emergency Services Regulation aims to improve patient safety. The intention is good, but what about the risks of lengthening birth trips? Finland is a safe place to give birth. This natural event is handled smoothly and safely even at the moment. In this respect, the appropriateness of the on-call regulation can be questioned in relation to childbirth. With regard to the possible increase in travel births, postpartum care and the negative effects on the activities of other birthers and hospitals, I am concerned like many other Finns. Sure, if the on-call regulation could be implemented without shutting down childbirth functions, but in practice this is not possible. Fortunately, at least a few maternity wards under threat of closure have been granted an extension of their activities. This has happened to us in Varsinais-Suomi, Salo, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u86	Mr President! Signatories of the citizens' initiative are concerned that the on-call regulation adopted during the last Government term threatens the activities of smaller maternity hospitals in different parts of Finland. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health argues that patient safety was the main criterion of the on-call regulation. A fully normal pregnancy may become an emergency during childbirth, when the child must be born 15 to 20 minutes after the onset of this distress. This is why we want to concentrate childbirths on units where a specialist in gynaecological diseases and childbirth and anaesthetics is immediately available or well-trained physicians and, in addition, a specialist in paediatric medicine or a doctor with experience in the field. The Emergency Services Regulation therefore sought patient safety and savings. The signatories to the citizens' initiative are concerned that when the on-call regulation places additional clothing on the maternity wards of smaller hospitals, the municipalities and joint municipal authorities are not able to respond to those claims, but the hospitals are being driven down. This necessarily means more travel births, more planned births, more extra births in a hospital further away from the birther’s overnight stay, and also more need for space and staff in the remaining maternity hospitals. The citizens' initiative raises serious issues: How do you manage the support and relief of the car without a midwife or a doctor during the opening phase? What about listening to the heartbeat during the delivery trip? What about the newborn's initial treatment? If travel births increase, it means that more babies are missing what the on-call regulation specifically seeks, i.e. the rapid availability of a pediatric specialist after delivery. Mr President! These concerns and questions of the signatories to the citizens' initiative are appropriate and we must find answers to them during the parliamentary procedure. Today, exactly five years ago, I was the last person to give birth to a large university hospital. The Prenatal Department was full and the nurse was in a merciless hurry. I asked the nurse if I could call my husband and tell him to start coming to the hospital from a long distance. The nurse said, "You won't be born again, ma'am." Half an hour after that statement, the baby was born. So I gave birth without pain relief, and the father did not see the birth of his child. It would have been different if the nurse had had time to examine me. Congestion and urgency in maternity hospitals can also be a factor in reducing patient safety. It will at least reduce the quality of treatment experience. Childbirth is a natural part of life. It should not be meditated any more than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u87	Madam President! This is an important citizens' initiative. One of the aims of the on-call regulation adopted in 2013 is to improve patient safety, including by providing special conditions for emergency services. The citizens' initiative rightly takes a position on the regulation in relation to childbirth, because at this point regulation is too strict. Patient safety will not be promoted by imposing on-call requirements so as to eliminate the currently well-functioning maternity units. The availability of the service is deteriorating, and as distances continue, the risks are increasing. The major problem with the regulation is the requirement for the rapid availability of specialised paediatric doctors or doctors with experience in children's diseases. Even now, there is a shortage of pediatrician specialists. This cycle is aggravated by the tense demands of the emergency services regulation. In the end, however, the question is whether it is safer to get a doctor from home with a 15 - minute delay or to put a mother on the road to the next hospital. In the vast province of Lapland, maternity activities are currently in both central hospitals. The Emergency Services Regulation, however, jeopardises the operation of the Länsipoohja Central Hospital. Even now travels can be hundreds of miles. Even in a lower on-call hospital, treatment is undoubtedly better than on the road in a car or ambulance. There must be no compromise on patient safety, and risk providers must also continue to be directed to larger hospitals on the basis of the citizens' initiative. There is no justification for tightening on-call standards in the name of patient safety when, in practice, both quality and safety are affected. In the karate of births, mothers have to be nervous not only about childbirth but also about a long journey to the hospital. The Emergency Services Regulation is justified by economic factors. However, when the standard level is tightened, it is only an additional cost factor in economic terms. Of course, savings will come at the moment if units are abolished. Is that what the on-call regulation actually seeks? One of the main priorities of the government is deregulation, the facilitation of standards, and this is also an economic issue. Childbirth is the most natural thing in the world. We should not meditize it, and we already have state-of-the-art hospitals. We need services in relation to childbirths widely throughout the country. 67,000 people have written an initiative. I wish it your support and a windfall.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u88	Mr President! Finland must be the safest country in the world to give birth and be born. This citizens' initiative is welcome and gives Parliament a welcome opportunity to go through this thoroughly. In order to ensure the proper staff and equipment for the health of the newborn and the mother in every hospital in which the baby is given birth, this issue has been governed by a revised on-call regulation signed by Minister Huovinen. According to that decree, the childbirth hospital must have 24-hour sectional preparedness and access to the knowledge of a pediatric specialist. In hospitals, the number of births must be 1,000 per year precisely because it is actually possible to develop and maintain the skills of the entire staff in emergency and special situations, because a normal birth can turn into another. There's no harm in the neck of the bell. The regulation is justified in many ways. When this is the case, it must also be said that it is wise that the regulation is also based on a strong allocation of scarce resources, including scarce staff, and on the pursuit of cost-effectiveness. This amendment to the Regulation has been estimated to result in net savings of around EUR 60 million as a result of increased cost-effectiveness. I would also like to say that the management of each hospital district has been in favour of this regulation, which, according to them, increases patient safety and also clarifies emergency services throughout the country. This initiative proposes that the municipality or joint municipal authority should be able to deviate from these criteria, and I would say here that the regulation also allows for a derogation from these criteria if the accessibility or patient safety of the service so requires, and this is a good thing to say here. That is also what I would like to say here: travel births are a risk to children, but it has to be said that this phenomenon has not been found to be dependent on this regulation, but that the number of births has increased, and what is noteworthy is that it has increased in Western and Southern Finland. This phenomenon must now be dealt with here in Parliament in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and it is probably also a question of the care chains and the way in which patients... Or pregnancy is not a disease or childbirth, but mothers giving birth have been instructed, but it is not possible to do so in terms of time. I note that a high level of midwifery is our national pride and the competence of midwives must be made more accessible. The high level of maternity care and maternity activities must be maintained rigorously as the reform of social services is promoted. I know that the Midwives' Association has suggested midwife-driven birth control, and there are more and more births at home. It is good to note that, regardless of this regulation, childbirth is going to change very much in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u89	Madam President! In connection with the preparation of the Emergency Services Regulation, I asked the National Advisory Board for Ethics in Social Affairs and Health at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for an opinion on ethical issues related to childbirth care. He said that ethical principles could sometimes be opposed when the goal is to provide good care for childbirth. However, a prerequisite for the growth and development of the child born is a good level of prenatal, prenatal and postpartum care. He also pointed out that care for births, such as other forms of treatment, also had to take into account how much resources were available for this purpose and how they had to be distributed in order to achieve equality between citizens. Madam President! These ethically sustainable objectives of organising good delivery activities can be achieved by further centralising maternity activities, as is the case with special care. This is how savings are made. The new on-call regulation took into account international standards to regulate childbirth activities in Finland as well. In addition to the staff of the maternity ward in the hospital, the resources of the obstetrician, anesthesiologist, a pediatrician and an anesthesiologist and an operating room nurse who are on immediate alert are needed for crisis situations when everything is not going the way it should be. The most expensive part of maternity safety is this 24-hour emergency call. It may cost EUR 2.4 million per year. Of the number of night operations in small hospitals, cesarean operations account for about 80 percent. The optimal population base of the maternity hospital is 200,000 inhabitants, i.e. approximately 2,000 births per year. With this population, it takes about eight specialist doctors to handle all activities in the field of childbirth and gynaecology. This is also the minimum amount at which 24-hour on-call can be handled without expensive purchase of the doctor’s input. Currently, there is a shortage of specialist doctors in maternity, gynaecological and paediatric diseases in Finnish hospitals. Childbirth safety is top international in Finland. Nevertheless, early infant mortality is increased by 40 percent on the doctor’s home emergency call compared to hospital emergency services. Similarly, the early mortality rate of a child is equal to less than 1000 births in a hospital compared to more than 2,000 births in a hospital. The life-long care costs of a child who is disabled in childbirth may be as high as EUR 5 million, not to mention human suffering. About 70 children are born each year in our country at home or on their way to the hospital. Even in the HUS area, the average number is ten unplanned births per year outside the hospital. Madam President! Emergency services regulations on the centralisation of births
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u90	Next up, Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u91	Madam President! It's the first time I've ever heard of this room. First of all, this initiative to amend the on-call regulation or, in this case, the law so that the on-call regulation should be brought into line with its law is, of course, welcome. A system of citizens' initiatives has been created for such situations, and then we must remember, at the various stages of the debate in this context, how this process is progressing here in Parliament. This is now a citizens' initiative which this plenary is sending to committee, and the committee then has its own process of how this matter is going to proceed. Is there a need at this stage for the expertise of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — I could predict that at an early stage you will hear why the on-call regulation exists and what has been done with these births, or even the stage where you might ask the Minister for Family and Basic Services something, can come, but that is hardly yet to be foreseen by any of us. Madam President! Why the on-call setting? Thank you to my predecessor, Minister Huovinen, for bringing about the on-call regulation. I know how hard the work and, you might say, behind the pain is that there is an on-call setting. After all, the primary purpose and objective of the Emergency Services Regulation is to ensure that in situations where rapid, sudden treatment is needed, in this case treatment is available. And as the implementation of the on-call regulation has shown, it is implemented in a slightly different way across Finland due to the fact that distances are also different. We are in a situation where, as part of the whole process of social welfare reform, we have to think and think seriously about how much knowledge we have in our social and health care activities. From the very top point of view of the existence of the on-call regulation, knowledge is safeguarded. Why the on-call regulation, and why have we even had to turn births into a citizens' initiative? I understand very well that there is concern about services, but I cannot fail to note the third sentence of the first speaker, in which the representative said 'contains maternity hospitals'. "It is important to maintain maternity hospitals, but more important is the safety of children and And, Madam President, to conclude briefly: The on-call regulation and this part of the on-call regulation on births allows for exceptions, but this does not mean that there is a thorn open, but that local, regional conditions are taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u92	The debate has been opened so that you can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u93	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the speakers and, above all, to the signatories of this citizens' initiative. This is the first citizens' initiative this period. I myself have been involved in two births, and one of them was very busy. Fortunately, everything went well with professional staff. The emergency services regulation is based on patient safety, and there is absolutely no question of compromising it. However, studies show that there is a sixfold risk of a child dying if the birth takes place on the way, and then the question needs to be asked as to whether patient safety is being achieved. On the other hand, what does the resolution of maternity hospitals have to do with other medical care and health care? I therefore hope that Parliament will have an in-depth discussion with experts so that the safety of the child and the mother is at the forefront of this debate and the final decision-making of this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u94	Madam President! It seems to me that I myself should have been there to explain this question in Mr Ruhula's place, because I have been signing this regulation and I am defending it in this context too, precisely in terms of patient safety. It is good that, in this debate, many of you, who are in favour of the citizens' initiative, said, however, that this emergency section capability, which this regulation also introduced into this system of ours for all hospitals dealing with childbirth, is important. I am sure that each of us understands that it is not up to us mothers and families to watch whether the hospital to which I am going to give birth is all the readiness that is needed. But, ladies and gentlemen, this also applies to the question of the pediatrician who was raised here. According to the information I have received, we have a situation in which up to 2% of births are required for a quick assessment by a pediatrician after the birth of a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u95	Mr President! I fear that this is not just a question of childbirth; it is a bigger issue, namely the future of many regional hospitals' services, which Mrs Kulmuni has already drawn attention to. Indeed, as Mr Heinonen said, the study shows that the baby has six times the risk of dying when he is born on the way. I hope that we do not have the objective of increasing this risk of increasing the number of births. Now they have already increased by up to 20% in recent years, and I agree with Mr Sarkomaa that this is something that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must pay particular attention to. But, Mr President, I believe that every newborn baby has a better chance of living in low-risk maternity hospitals than when born on the road. At the hospital, I'm sure the initial treatment is better than it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u96	Mr President! I am in favour of this citizens' initiative as a starting point. In my opinion, now that the government is breaking these standards, there is one standard that should be abolished, this threshold of about 1000 births. I am counting on the expertise of hospital districts to assess which units are able to secure sufficient expertise, and I also appreciate the customer feedback that those maternity hospitals that do not keep up with this development will fall away even on the basis of customer feedback. For example, Oulaskangas Hospital in Oulainen is an excellent example of professional staff, comfortable facilities and customer feedback. I myself see that this is also linked to the future of these hospitals and their range of services and, possibly, to education, for example, in relation to this Oulainen. It can take a large cluster both in terms of education and health care, at the same time through a single regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u97	Mr President! It is very important that, on the basis of the studies, we develop our health care, and I say here that it has not been possible to determine whether the closures of hospitals or these distances have affected the number of births, but that there are a great many phenomena behind this. For example, here in the capital region of the south, where those travel births have increased, the reason has been that it has been said from the hospital that you should stay as long as you can, birthers, at home. This is about the treatment chain, something that needs to be taken seriously. It is very important that health care is developed from the point of view of customers, people. I would like to say here that I do not want to be a meditator of births, it is a natural event. The important thing is that when you develop maternity hospitals in the area, for example, our Midwives College Haikara-type activities are possible, family rooms are available. Childbirth is a natural thing, but we decision-makers must ensure that the hospitals where we are giving birth are safe. Very common, safe-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u98	Madam President! We have to cut the corners straight and answer Mr Sarkomaa when you pointed out that travel births have increased in Western Finland: well, of course they have increased. After Rauma has closed the maternity hospital, of course, the number of births there has risen. And we must take into account the risk that we already have a poor treatment chain at this stage, which also causes it in a dense network of maternity hospitals. But I would also urge that, when this comes to committee, you really think about it, as the Minister said, what are the criteria for these exceptions to be made. Yes, excellent speeches have been made here that we have maternity hospitals in Finland that work brilliantly. Two speeches have made that point. That Mrs Myllykoski has no vision of regional policy, but that concern expressed by mothers and childbirths and also by midwives: the sixfold possibility of the death of a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u99	Mr President! It is important that this is considered as a whole, that travel births are one part. But here I say that that number of travel births had increased even before this on-call regulation had been adopted. This phenomenon is a little broader and it is a good thing that we do not put one of these together, but it is clear that we are working on this in committee. Travel birth is something that I think increases six times the risk of children dying. It must be taken seriously; different possibilities must be found to come from a long journey to wait for childbirth. This is an important issue, and I certainly do not underestimate it, but I only told you about the research data that it is good to trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u100	Mr President! Childbirth is a normal, natural event, but in the work of a nurse I have been in a situation where a perfectly normal birth in an instant turned into an emergency section, and I can say that it was not possible to spend a few seconds longer when the knife flashed and the child was out — he was not injured in any way. It wouldn't have worked if it was a home emergency. Now that this on-call regulation and this concentration of births are aimed at the fact that everywhere there is that readiness on top of the last one, the other side of this issue is that there are now sufficient staff in these centralised hospitals and that mothers are also admitted when they come from a longer distance. That there could then be such patient hotel-type solutions at a long distance, where you can wait safely and calmly. The second point is that cooperation between the maternity clinic and emergency care should be seamless. And I would like to ask the Minister how we are now going to strengthen this aspect, because what is essential here is also:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u101	Mr President! Of course, I agree with Mrs Huovinen that patient safety should not be compromised, so that is not the case. I am sure we all agree that this safety is a and a. But the previous minister did not want or was able to answer, and the present one does not want or know how to answer what the demand for 1,000 births is based on. This is, in my opinion, the most important question: what is the basis of this demand? Minister Ruhula, we are well aware that the spike is not open. We have a two-year waiver in Porvoo maternity ward. We meet all the other qualitative criteria, but we have a little on top of 900 births, so it feels like. Quality, safety, everything is in order, but there are no 1,000 births.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u102	Madam President! When I am no longer in that defendant's place, it is unreasonable to claim here that I am unable to respond to the regulation that I have signed. I can answer and I can answer. I just did not understand that the question was addressed to me in your recent speech. After all, it is not a matter that has been pulled out of the hat when I have been able to study this quite a bit when this regulation was being prepared, but there has been a very extensive, thorough study which has involved a number of working groups, and even more than 1000 births have been proposed in the working group's work. I am sure that all the material available from the STM, for example, will provide answers as to how it has come to this 1000 births, but I would just like to say that it has been a very long preparatory work in the background of this on-call regulation, which has already been carried out through me. I would also like to remind you that it was, however, Minister Huovinen, who signed these derogations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u103	Mr President! I really didn't mean to criticize you for not being able to answer, but I'm still saying...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u104	This limit of 1,000 births is certainly an approximation of what the resources of our doctors in the field of gynaecology, childbirth and pediatrics really are. Basic medical training has been increased in Finland, specialist medical training has been increased specifically in these areas, and then specialist medical training has been transferred from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in order to be able to take into account where we have a shortage of doctors. At the moment, with these quality standards, we do not have enough doctors to guarantee this public safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u105	Madam President! Mr Rehula, as a doctor for over 20 years and as a specialist in this field, I am talking specifically about the safety of the child and the mother. This citizens' initiative has therefore been launched by professionals in the field and there are a lot of professionals in the field who are doing practical work, and that is why they are supported. According to statistics, only one newborn in a thousand needs immediate treatment every year, and a significant proportion of these too are babies of risk-bearing babies, who have been previously directed and are also being directed to creating larger maternity hospitals, which include not only pediatricians but also possible intensive care and special follow-up measures. It is quite wrong to think that at a large hospital all doctors would be available immediately. This will happen if the medical college is there outside the delivery room waiting. There's a lot of distance between the big hospital. I myself have been on call at a large hospital and a small home emergency unit, where I have been several times faster with the baby who needs help. The home emergency unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u106	Madam President! The current emergency services regulation is very strict precisely because of the annual requirements for these 1000 births, and there are also strict requirements for staff premises and equipment. I am very concerned about the whole network of maternity hospitals in Finland. If you think of any distance, the lifting of the maternity hospital in Kuusamo in your own province was a serious blow. Also, the situation in Kainuu is now on hold as to how it will continue after this state of emergency. And, Minister Rehula, you have actually decided that these distances could be, for example, those which could be regarded as exceptional situations in relation to this network without the implementation of this competence regulation. I myself wish that distances would have some meaning in terms of interpretation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u107	Let's take the representatives Katainen and Mäkisalo-Ropponen and then Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u108	Mr President! I personally also very much welcome this citizens' initiative, and I very much hope so, and I believe that in these relevant committees these concerns will then really be weighed up and passed through in such a way that the regulation will be good and as comprehensively and comprehensively as possible for all mothers and children born in Finland. In fact, I am dealing with the same issue that has been addressed on several occasions. Why can these long distances not be as strong a reason as this 1,000 - year - old birth rate? Has it come as a surprise to you now that this matter has come up? Why was it not already such a strong criterion in the last period when the matter was decided and the regulation was adopted?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u111	Mr President! I will in no way invalidate the points of view of the people who raised the matter. This initiative has been taken very carefully. However, when I come from North Karelia, where there can be a distance of up to 150 kilometres to the maternity hospital, no one there has considered this a problem, this long birth trip, nor the professionals. And we don't have that many travel births either. And this is now an interesting difference between hospital districts, how there can be such big differences in travel births in different places in Finland, and that is why we should pay particular attention to these care chains. I myself was in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last season, and then I was convinced of the need for an on-call regulation and I still agree. But now this matter is really going back to committee. That is a good thing, and I believe that there will once again be a careful investigation into this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u112	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u113	Madam President! The debate tells us where we are going on this subject, and I do not want to hear any contributions for or against it, and also to Mrs Nylander: it is easy for me to say that there are many things I do not know. Then there's a situation where when you can't, you can find out. And one concrete argument here — I am taking the whole thing off — is that the number of births has increased by 20%. Of course, each travel birth is too much, but the total volume, the age group, still has nearly 60,000 children a year — fortunately we have an age class of that size — and the latest information is that in the course of the year 70 travel births. I do not underestimate the risks of any travel birth, but when we talk about numbers and percentages and talk about safety, when we add to this where those births have increased, it has already been said here in the discussions that in southern and western Finland, in reality in the capital region. This argument is good, relevant, concern is genuine, but when we should think about the whole, that is what I wanted to highlight. Second point: The question was: how is cooperation going to be strengthened, how is emergency care going to be strengthened? Of course, a serious matter wouldn't help at all... But one argument is now that taxis are about to give birth, that a taxi driver should also be trained. But the message I want to give in this role is that now that Parliament's committee is starting to deal with this, we must now see this as part of a wider whole, as part of the social war, where the key issue will be to put care chains in order. That will be an absolutely central issue. This is one part of the concern — I understand you, too, who have concerns about the future of births in their own region — is the concern of what happens when there is war. This is one part of the war that, of course, matters. Thirdly, I hope that the committee — if it is now a minister to make a wish to the committee, but I would also like to point out what the minister's role is when the citizens' initiative is discussed — will explain what happened in the course of the committee's deliberations when the on-call regulation came into force, the derogations were granted, and then, with regard to one hospital district, the decision was taken to continue to give birth even without a derogation in the area of the hospital district concerned. I throw the question into the air because I have some idea of what started to happen with the births of half of Finland. Madam President! The debate is very important, and it is important that we speak with facts and arguments. It is the only way forward and, of course, I expect and hope that cooperation with the committee will be possible as part of the discussion of the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u114	Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u115	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! Medborgarinitiativet om ändring av jourförordningens bestemmelser om förlossningar är förståeligt. I årtusenden har barnens födelse variant en naturlig process, och mänskligheten på Jorden har klarat av att föröka sig. I modern tid har vi byggt upp en mycket god ödrarådgivning i vårt land, och vi kan stoltsera med att höra till de lännder i världen som har den lägsta spädbarnsdligheten. Känneteknande för Finland har variety ett brett nätverk av ödrådgivningar och ett läså rätt så brett nätverk av förlossningssjuchus. Själv är jag född i Jakobstad, där föddes också mina sex äldre syskon, och mina egna barn har fötts i Jakobstad, den sista ungefär för 20år sedan, och det var en bra vård och omsorg man fick där. För ett år sedan stängdes förslossningsenheten vid Jakobstads sjukhus som en följd av jourförordningen som den förra regeringen fattade beslut om. Och det ska sägas tydligt och klart: svenska folkpartiet och vår ministergrupp omfattade inte det beslut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u116	Madam President! Birth and childbirth is the most natural thing in the world. We want to keep to the safety and quality of childbirth. That is why standards, regulations and laws are also laid down in this Chamber in the form of the on-call regulation. This citizens' initiative is welcome to wake us up to the fact that all matters and blocks are in place because we have laid down this childbirth regulation so rigorously in relation to these 1000 annual births and staff facilities, equipment and quality. That is why it is good that the committee is going through a rigorous screening with experts as to whether there really is something to change in the current law. Even in that northern province, the distances are quite long. How would the predictions of Helsinki birthers sound that when should we go to Tampere? It is just the daily life that givers are thinking about for these long distances, which also bring costs to those who are born there. Consider the fact that there is also an increase in the time of hospitalization before and after childbirth when there is no closer to that place of birth. The number of births has increased, as has been said here, by 20%, and I believe that if the network of maternity hospitals is narrowed further, these births will certainly increase in ambulances, cars and taxis throughout Finland. I think it is important that Minister Rehula and the entire government consider amending the on-call regulation, at least in such a way that these derogations will be granted when quality and safety can be maintained, with regard to the 1,000 demands for annual births. And these distances would also be one of the criteria for securing this network, how it would then be as good as possible and guarantee the quality, safety and, above all, the fairness of the fact that distances do not mean that you have to fear childbirth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u117	Madam President! I am well aware of the spirit of the government programme, among other things, with regard to this on-call regulation, but I am still bold from the point of view of my own province to use a few words. On the one hand, I believe that there should be a debate on the criteria of the on-call regulation, but also on the principle of principle. Childbirth is a critical part of the activities of a few central hospitals, and without childbirth, for example, Kainuu’s row does not have the prerequisites for carrying out on-call or demanding special care in the Kainuu area. In practice, this is not just a matter of very important childbirth activity in itself; it is a question of setting the levels of special care in different areas. I believe that the starting point must be that every province has the opportunity to create and provide specialised care services at central hospital level. It would therefore be quite inconceivable if Kainuu had to drive down the whole of special care just because, from the point of view of the current on-call regulation, the problem for Kainuu is only the number of fewer than 1000 birthers. Currently Kainuu has about 700 to 800 mothers per year. In addition to the fundamental debate, there are also a number of aspects of access to services and patient safety that have been raised here. The distances between us are very long, and our central hospital, for example, is not even within two hours of accessibility in all our own sparsely populated areas. In other words, it is quite clear that there is a considerable risk of travel births and emergencies during travel. Moreover, the lengthening of the delivery journey to Kainuu to such a substantial extent would require a very large increase in the resources of emergency care, since a large proportion of birthers would, according to Kainuu’s own estimates, use an ambulance to travel the journeys after delivery. In other words, I believe that one of the clear criteria for the organisation of childbirth should also be these long distances. But at the end of the day: When we talk about this on-call regulation and, above all, about its exceptions, Mr Rehula, at the end of his own speech, drew attention to certain risks, he raised a particular point, and I would say that the on-call regulation or any exceptions to the on-call regulation must in no way lead to aggressive, very unhealthy competition between the various hospitals, including in relation to staff. Unfortunately, this has been seen to some extent in the last couple of years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u118	Mr President! First of all, we must thank all those who have done an enormous job in favour of this citizens' initiative. It is now in our hands, and we should treat it with its due value in this house. The role of national decision-making is to contribute to ensuring the availability and quality of services. The Emergency Services Regulation aims in particular to improve the safety of childbirth, which is a very good and worthwhile objective. Although the main starting point for the regulation is to improve safety, there are unfortunately also some very clear economic motives behind it. The aim is to concentrate births and medical care on larger units. I come from a region where the emergency regulations adopted in the last parliamentary term threaten the maternity ward. After Minister Huovinen granted the Salo Hospital an exemption, we have come to see the economic reality of the matter, in the form of an extension with the maternity ward. With the emergency services regulation, the cost of maintaining the maternity ward would be permanently higher than a couple of degrees. The additional invoice amounted to around EUR 1 million per year. The basic fact in Salo is that we have 750 children, and it falls far short of the 1000 birth limits defined in the on-call regulation. However, there is a strong will in the Salo area for the preservation of childbirth. We are well aware that the survival of childbirths in the Salo regional hospital is important for the entire hospital. If births are lost, a cycle begins, where other activities are slowly started to drive down. The greatest fear is the future of the Children's Department. The question arises as to whether we will have the entire regional hospital in the future, which is the ultimate purpose of the regulation — what has already been said in the debate and speeches. From the Salo point of view, the requirements of the regulation have been difficult to swallow because we have a functional unit in which the risks of the giver are assessed at an early stage. For this reason, too, from the point of view of patient safety, moving to a larger unit is not a justified option. This discussion of the citizens' initiative raises the question of how the new government will deal with the on-call regulation. The centre has spoken much against a central policy. However, the central element in this Regulation is strongly involved. The Government Programme is based on the progressive transfer of decision-making powers to the regions. For that too, the on-call regulation does not fit very well. In the light of all this, it is reasonable to ask: is the government prepared to take the on-call regulation into new consideration so that there is more local decision-making power to apply it in the future? There are several ministers in the present parliament, the current MPs of the government parties, who did electoral work promising to dismantle the injustice of the on-call regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u119	Mr President! The Minister said here in his own speech that childbirth is only part of a larger body of social services. That is absolutely true, and that is exactly what it is. However, many speeches have highlighted the importance of childbirth for these regional hospitals. It may be a decisive factor that will either lead to further development of the activity or to further decline. So, in this sense, there is also a rather strategic aspect. If these smaller maternity hospitals are then driven down, it will mean concentration pressures and investment pressures also in the central cities, and one may ask whether it is at least a very sensible option in all cases if the provinces have functional infraa and expertise, as is the case here in Oulaskan, for example. This setting of a limit of 1000 births: I still stress that it is one of the standards that should be abolished. It should be relaxed and given to the hospital district a margin of discretion and then the possibility of assessing the development potential of these services. I would also like to stress that this citizens' initiative is signed by a large number of health professionals, whose expertise I do not want to question at least. It is precisely experts in these fields, operators who have seen the success and development of this process of childbirth in every way in practical everyday life. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will go through this citizens' initiative with an open mind, and I think it was a good thing that the Minister, in his own speech, did not take a very strong position on this issue, because it is indeed a matter within the competence of Parliament and, above all, a matter under the responsibility of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. As I said, I personally would see the need to amend this on-call regulation precisely in relation to this maternity activity. This initiative has been taken with great care and expertise in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u120	Mr President! This would be an opportunity to end up with very philosophical considerations about why we need national standards on this type of issue. At least my point of view has consistently been that they are needed because all people across Finland are in an equal position when it comes to quality, knowledgeable services. And that is why, as I said earlier in the debate, I am pleased that it is recognised here that the point in the on-call regulation where, for example, the possibility of emergency sequencing has now actually been realised in a completely different way is a key condition for equal service when we talk about the safety of children born to women and children. Mr. Speaker! However, a few comments on the issues raised. Firstly, the question that has been asked: what is the basis for these changes to the on-call regulation? The STM's unanimous report on uniform criteria for emergency services is likely to be available on the website, and when we spoke about the fact that there are a large number of professionals in health care among the signatories to the citizens' initiative, the group that has done its expert work on this basis is equally convincing. Which means it's definitely not from the hat. Patient safety is a fundamental starting point, improving it. But of course it is clear, and I do not deny that since this tightening up of the on-call regulation for many others was part of the structural package, it is also a question of costs and how we can use our competent staff in a sensible and good way — which is becoming less and less so, as Mrs Talja said in her own speech, for example. We must ensure that this staff is properly used in different areas. President! Finally, with regard to this 1,000 births — and this is related to the expertise that has just been mentioned — we have, for example, the STM rapporteur at an earlier stage stated that if there is an emergency, an emergency, comes to the hospital less than once a month, then you can also ask whether that unit has routine knowledge to deal with its emergency. Mr President, these questions must be raised, even though they are difficult. And I understand the concern that, in the case of births, if blackmail is carried out, how it will affect the rest of the hospital's activities, as Mrs Korhonen has just pointed out here, for example. But I cannot in any way sign that we are undermining patient safety on geographical grounds. This does not encourage mothers and families to move to places of long distance if we do not specifically ensure:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u121	Mr President! First of all, I must say that I appreciate the citizens' initiative as a new form of legislation. The citizens' initiative is a strong expression of legislative influence, and I appreciate the activeness and effort of citizens to support it and therefore congratulate the people who launched it on a large number of supporters. I understand the concern expressed in the citizens' initiative to amend the on-call regulation. Childbirth is a huge, unique and emotional event, and that is why I am sure this Chamber has even been inspired to share its own birth experiences. Four times I have done it, but I am not going to tell you about my own experiences this time. People want to give birth close to home and safely. This is certainly an equal goal for everyone. I believe that the message of the initiative must be taken seriously and I hope that the concerns expressed will be taken into account in the committee's deliberations. However, I would also like to remind you that already, in a large part of Finland, journeys are long. Last season, when the on-call regulation was adopted, opposition parties of that time, especially the Finns of Peru and the Centre Party, were criticised very loudly. This is, of course, positive from the point of view of the citizens' initiative: now the government parties, the centre and the Finns, have the opportunity to show by means of the citizens' initiative that the speeches were true and real. I still want to defend my colleague. Knowledge increases the pain and influences decision-making, and that is why, as has just been heard, Minister Huovinen signed the regulation of the previous period. On the same basis, I am sure he also signed the waivers. Equality and security are our rights. Mr President! I hope that when the committee receives more information and even these concerns and concerns expressed in the discussions are taken into account in the initiative, the regulation can be improved, if necessary, if it proves necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u122	Mr President! The idea of this citizens' initiative is that childbirth activities could continue in smaller hospitals, and the key to the problem is the sufficiency of pediatricians. If childbirth stops at a hospital, it automatically means that the share of other operational specialties, mainly in small hospitals, will increase in on-call costs. If births continue, the same surgical team and anaesthetic team will handle emergency services in both fields. When one runs out, what will happen to others, and is there a threat to the hospital’s obsolescence? Many hospitals, which are threatened with the end of the labour market as a result of the regulation, are located in a region of long distances, where a well-functioning hospital plays a central role both for people in need of the hospital in the region and as a source of employment for the whole region, and the concern about the region's survival is understandable. On the other hand, Mr President, the purpose of the original on-call regulation must also be borne in mind when it comes to childbirth. The Regulation aims to improve patient safety, the child giving birth and the child born. So the question is, which is less safe: is it that the pediatrician arrives in 15 minutes, or is it that the giver is put in a taxi or ambulance for one, two hours? I think that is precisely the point that we will address in the committee. The Citizens' Initiative includes THL statistics from a few years ago. According to their statistics, there are no differences in perinatal and neonatal mortality based on the size of birthing hospitals. On the other hand, STM has become a statistics for 2014 on, among other things, cesarean sections and emergency sections, which have been carried out in exactly the same way. Mr President! The citizens' initiative to amend the Health Care Act and this on-call regulation is on the right track. However, I personally believe that there is more to be done about the on-call regulation and that it should actually be looked at more broadly than the citizens' initiative has proposed. But for the sake of equity, I told you: I was the boss at Kuusamo Health Centre when births were abolished in 2008. For the sake of equity, it must also be said that no problems have arisen since then. Only one of my own grandchildren was born on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u123	Mr President! It may seem that the child has gone with the bath water. The regulation is well-intentioned and aimed at improving patient safety, but the fear, as has been pointed out here, is that patient safety will actually be reduced as maternity wards run further away and travel births increase. The presence of a special pediatrician is not the only factor that creates safety, and one must weigh the significant risk of a child doctor’s lack of 24-hour emergency care relative to the increase in the number of births, because even in a small hospital, the treatment is of higher quality than on the road. In our constituency, this issue is very acute. This on-call regulation applies to both Oulaskangas and Kajaani, both of which are at stake here. The distance between Kajaani and Oulu is 182 kilometres, which means 2 hours 20 minutes in time. The distance between Oulaskangas and Oulu is 102 kilometers, in time an hour 15 minutes. In addition, the possible closure of Western Ostrobothnia would also have an impact on us, as all three hospitals would then be forced to give birth to Oulu Central Hospital. This raises the question of how the capacity of the central hospital would be sufficient to manage all these births, what kind of investment would be needed there, which would also be the safety of these people if the central hospital had become heavily congested, i.e. all these other birthers would also be affected by these Oulu breeders. This must also be taken into account from a cost point of view and, as has also been said here, it is not free to come there for a long time to wait around the hospital. We can't get into a zero-risk situation. We need to weigh the various risks on the basis of a set of tasks and consider a solution, and I hope that a genuine process will be carried out in committee and this regulation will be genuinely reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u124	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is indeed good and important. I welcome the fact that Parliament is also discussing this issue and discussing it, because this also forces us to look at it from different sides and from different sides and then to shed light on and then expand understanding on this issue. The chairman of the committee has promised that this matter will be dealt with in committee, as is the case with the procedure, and yes, the key clue must be the safety of childbirth, the safety of the mother and the child. Of course, these long distances must also be taken into account here as a whole, and now that we are talking about the on-call regulation and this limit of 1000, we always have to put that limit somewhere, now it has been put here in the previous period, and then these long distances have been checked with these derogations. And, as the Minister also pointed out in his speech, these derogations will last until the construction of the slats should begin to be clear, when this matter is being dealt with, all of these must also be dealt with in that context. But, as has been said, the common goal of all of us is that Finnish good maternity activities, midwifery, pediatrician activities, child health clinic activities, all of this together, must be closely linked, and the essential thing is that the care chain works and that we can also invest in prevention, i.e. informing and supporting the mother, father and family, in order to be well prepared for that birth event and then to be able to get started in time. But I do know — I have lived behind long distances, and I too have been visited to give birth to a snowstorm over 50 kilometres [50 km] away — this problem. We live in a country where there are long distances and, on the other hand, as Mrs Talja has pointed out very well, these limited resources are also: we have a lot of shortcomings and shortcomings in the training of specialist doctors, and we must also be able to ensure that these resources are all available to the public in a rational way and to the greatest extent possible — but the committee will deal with this in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u125	Mr. Speaker! It is easy to understand this citizens' initiative and its authors, from personal experience. For example, if the possibility of a maternity ward is discontinued from Kainuu Central Hospital, the trip to Oulu or Kuopio will become more than 300 kilometres and a three-hour trip. This would mean an urgent trip to Tampere, at least in Helsinki. The Emergency Services Regulation is justified by safety. At the moment, however, the safety level in hospitals is good in Finland and, for example, in Kainuu. It is precisely the placement of the maternity ward over long distances that poses additional risks to the life of the child born in the most vulnerable situations. In the past, maternity doctors may have been on call from home, but with this new regulation, this requirement for continuous emergency care is precisely a source of unnecessary over-regulation and additional costs and also a threat to the future presence of on-call hospitals in the areas and will cause families with children to concentrate in the future in pursuit of the services. Is this precisely what we want: to clear out areas after these services when making this life more dangerous in such a critical situation of life? That's not a good direction. I very much support the objective of the citizens' initiative, the amendment of the on-call regulation on childbirth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u126	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Haatais, for his good contributions. This matter will be dealt with there in committee, as he said there. I would like to comment on a few points. In this regard, Mr Keränen has already pointed out that there are studies from the 1980s and the 21st century that the differences in the well-being of children and mothers, regardless of whether it is the birth of a small or large hospital area, are not really there. That I don't know where Mr. Talja got that kind of statistics. The increase in these travel births: Over a few decades, around 35 birth units have been discontinued from Finland, and this is of course part of the reason for the increase in travel births. Then it is interesting, and we could all think about it, which is why travel births in the capital region have recently increased, unlike those in the north, where there are actually longer distances. As I said, as a professional in the field and also as a result of the busy work of midwives and nurses, I would like to ask myself, ‘ Is it really one of the reasons why there has been an increase in the number of travel births, because there is not enough time for nurses and midwives to get to know, listen and give the right advice, but the advice is given very urgently? ’ I understand the pressure at work, and in no way do I want to blame the nurses or the midwives, I'm sure they'll stretch out and try to do their job for the good of mothers and children. But this is reality, and I claim that one of the reasons why travel births in the capital region have increased is that there is no time. And just as this representative, Heikkinen, told us, having given birth in a larger unit, he was told that you were not yet born. She gave birth in half an hour because she didn't have time to study. In other words, this is also a reality in today's large units, as Mr Sarkkinen well raised the issue. If there is still more and more concentration, what is the real safety of the mother and patient, that baby? What's the good treatment? How's the medical staff doing? How's the midwives doing? They're very responsible. Finnish health care personnel are very responsible, and I also know from my gynecologist’s office, where I hear a lot about the concerns of professionals and the dismantling of them from their own work and work burden, that they are in a large unit under an enormous burden. How, then, will this professionalism be maintained, as Mrs Huovinen said here, if the acute situation comes very rarely? Well, this job rotation can be done. Small units can be taken every three or five years, for example, for a period of a large, busy delivery unit, and I would also recommend that a large unit be brought into a small unit to learn how to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u127	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the previous speaker that our health care staff are well-trained, very conscientious. Sometimes when I myself have been able to date quite a lot of staff in the previous job, I know that sometimes we stretch a little too much. In a way, this is a big problem, and that is what Mr Heikkinen referred to in his own speech. Let me remind you here that these issues are not dependent on the on-call regulation, but on the logic of organisation and the way in which we can now get this social structure to meet the needs that we undoubtedly have in this country. Then, President-in-Office, I will go to this matter of travel birth, which was not dealt with in the previous speech due to a lack of time. A few comments on that. As has been reported here, the increase has taken place particularly in the region of southern and western Finland and especially in the capital region. The question then is what are the policies leading to such an increase. I got a lot of citizens' messages. One father himself told me that they had once visited the Handmaiden, but it had been said from there that just go home and wait, and the baby was born in the ambulance. In my opinion, it is precisely this connection between emergency care and this knowledge of childbirth activities that should be made transparent. I hope that the committee will also look through the way in which this activity can be developed and modelled where there are long distances but there has been no increase in travel births. I myself went to Inari, where it was said that since there is a long distance from the maternity hospital, the birther almost always says that a midwife leaves the ambulance from the health centre. This is the kind of operating model we need to know how to find. Yes, it is also an attitude to take the giver seriously when he calls and tells about his own situations. Furthermore, I believe that the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa, for example, has carried out its own studies — and I hope that the committee will look into these too — in which medical reports have been examined on these travel births. It turns out that a great many of them are from an immigrant background. Is it a question of the fact that the maternity clinic has not been able to provide sufficient guidance on the situation? Very many of them are multiple birthers, mothers who may have already given birth to three children and think that well, there is no rush yet, and then there will be a hurry or some other kind of situation. We're gonna have to look through all of these before we get horrified about this matter of travel birth. Of course, we cannot have the goal of more and more children being born on a journey or in an ambulance. That must not be a goal. But then, Mr President, I would like to conclude by reminding you that in fact, although 1000 births were, as it were, one of the criteria for this, derogations were also granted due to geographically long distances. At least I think there are parts in which, even if there are quite few births, we need to have maternity hospitals. This issue of distance is absolutely essential. After all, the government, even the new government, now has to take a position on the on-call regulation, in fact, with regard to the derogations, because they were matched to come together with the social structure which, unfortunately, we have not yet completed, Mr Rehula. It may now be that you will not be able to complete it by that date, so this matter will be on your table, and in that sense this discussion of the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u128	Mr President! The Finns of Peru were called upon to take a stand on this very important issue. I understand that this concerns many families who are already living at long distances from the maternity hospital. As a representative of the Finnish Parliament, with the experience of the police profession, I do believe that the overall reform of the social welfare reform will ensure the safety of the child and mother as well as possible. But, as we know, childbirth can begin and progress life-threateningly, always leading to death, even if the family lives near the maternity hospital. However, the conditions in Finland are not as difficult as I would like to take the example of Sudan, where I myself have been working for two years. There we collaborated with international NGOs and trained local people to be midwives. I know this sort of thing is not possible here in Finland and there is no need for it, but I just wanted to point out how important it is, as Mrs Huovinen has already pointed out that that midwife would be involved then even if there was an ambulance, that it would bring security into it more. Finally, of course, I should like to give an example. My mother was an eight-year-old midwife at the birth of her own little brother, and the birth progressed and succeeded well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u129	Mr President! Here the situation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area came up with great merit, and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area has had a great deal — I do not know whether it is a Finnish term — of locks, or what these are, that you simply will not get away with it. There have been extraordinarily many of them now. It has also meant that these smaller maternity hospitals and wards in Lohja and Porvoo have been used, but this of course means that when mother and family are bounced from one place to another, it will of course lead to this situation that quite a lot of these births take place since outside maternity hospitals and wards. We must also return to this situation and look at how this security can also be improved here in the capital region, so thank you for that contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u130	Mr President! The above representatives of Tanus and Mrs Huovinen made very good speeches, and I quite agree that this on-call regulation is certainly not to blame for the fact that, in large hospitals, the quality of care can be undermined by the fact that the departments are full and the number of mothers giving birth is too low. But one of the main concerns of this citizens' initiative is certainly also whether we have considered clearly enough that, if this number of mothers who are to be born hopefully does not decrease dramatically, then if hospitals are closed down by the end of the derogations from the maternity decree or otherwise by the change in structures, then these mothers and childbirths will continue to burden these remaining birth hospitals. This is certainly an important issue for us in committee, when this matter comes to committee, to address itself and examine what this development is going to be. This haste in the wards is certainly not just affecting the maternity wards at the moment. Kuopio, where I have both given birth to my children, has a new fine department recently received, and probably in the autumn on the way to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we will get to know how the treatment is working there at the moment: have these new facilities contributed better to the health care staff's ability to cope with them, whether they have been provided not only for facilities but also enough staff. These are interesting things that we are fortunate enough to get to know, because one of the important things about this quality of care and the adequacy of nurses is that those existing nurses are able and willing to do this work. And one of the key things about this ability is that the amount of work is not too high.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u131	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 1/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u132	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I am presenting this report — the first report we have completed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This law is part of the 2017 pension package, which also sought ways to extend working careers and lower the threshold for receiving work. This proposal concerns the determination of the unemployment allowance for an aged job seeker, and in practice this means that it is proposed that the earnings-related allowance be determined on the basis of the previous salary if the new salary is lower. In other words, if the situation is that you have been in a better paid job and accordingly unemployment allowance has been fixed, then if you are 58 years old after you have fulfilled this condition of employment and then accept a replacement with a lower salary, then unemployment allowance will not be reduced. In practice, there are situations where it has then been calculated that it is not worth taking the job, and this, of course, encourages it to be accepted. The second point is that it is proposed here that the Social Insurance Institution and the Unemployment Fund should be given the right to obtain information from the Tax Administration on irregularities, without prejudice to confidentiality and other restrictions. And this latter question was then the question on which we received an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Constitutional Committee considered it justified that this right of access should exist, but the Constitutional Committee wanted to limit this right of access to information so that it could be linked to this requirement of necessity. That is why Article 1(4) of Chapter 1 of the draft law needs to be amended so that the right to information is either linked to the requirement of necessity or the content of the information is specified, for example, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal. All in all, the committee considers this government proposal to be necessary and appropriate and supports it, because this is an important question of extending working lives and increasing the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u133	Mr President! In committee we had a good debate on this government proposal and we did agree very much that this is a welcome change. And there are actually three key criteria for why it is a good thing for this change, that when a person over the age of 58 accepts a job, the amount of pay will no longer be considered, but the old rules will continue if this period ends. The key criteria why this is good are precisely that it must be worthwhile to accept work. It is now known that older workers in particular are not in a very strong position in the labour market, and this also contributes positively to the fact that they are profitable to be there and accept work. The second point is, of course, the need to extend working lives as a whole, and thirdly, we saw this change as a milestone in our efforts to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy here too in the labour market and in labour law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u134	Mr President! The previous speakers have already clarified this bill and the report so that I will intervene in just one matter. In connection with this legislative amendment, the committee also discussed how this would affect when the person concerned was not an employee but an entrepreneur. The income security of an entrepreneur is determined by the self-employed person's contribution to his or her social security when he or she is an entrepreneur. If an entrepreneur is now unemployed and has to take up paid employment, his unemployment benefit in this respect is determined by different provisions, and this change in the law currently being discussed does not in itself apply to an unemployed elderly entrepreneur. However, Mr President, the committee has taken note of this in its report. We are well aware that unemployment for an entrepreneur or his family is not a simple matter. The entrepreneur may run out of work, but he still keeps his business standing to see if there is another job in a few months. During the unemployed period, the entrepreneur does not in practice receive unemployment benefit from outside. The only way he'll be officially out of work is by quitting his business. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has stated in its report that encouraging an older and unemployed entrepreneur to re-employment is something that would be worth finding out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u135	Mr President! This government proposal to amend the Unemployment Security Act is very good and has three important points. One thing I think is this dismantling of the incentives, which is to break down a clear incentive trap and give the opportunity to extend working careers even at the age of 58. And then I think that the most important thing is that it is always worthwhile to accept work and that it should be. This is now creating opportunities for this. This government proposal is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u136	Mr President! As Mr Heikkinen and Mr Jokinen have already pointed out, this is a very welcome bill. And as already mentioned in the Government Programme, the aim is to break down the incentives to prevent taking up work. This change can now be estimated to improve the employment rate of people aged 58 or over. They do not need to think about a possible reduction in the future daily allowance, and they can also take up work with a slightly lower salary than their previous job. Many older people have a lot of skills that serve the labour market. The draft law before us is an important step in the right direction in managing the employment of older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u137	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u138	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, the Prime Minister's announcement of the dismantling of the standards was heard, and this bill, which is now under discussion on the law on the amendment of Article 6(2) of the Administrative Law, is a direct continuum for it. Last season I took a legislative initiative with the same content, but it did not progress because of the urgency, and now I hope that this bill will then be properly dealt with and will also lead to a change in the law. The right of appeal is an integral part of our legal system and the restrictions imposed on it must always have a strong basis. The importance of the right of appeal is emphasised when it comes to individual rights and obligations. The reverse of the right of appeal is the possibility of abuse of the right, for example, in such a way that the only objective is to stop a particular project by making complaints to the Supreme Administrative Court. This is regrettable, especially at a time when we urgently need investment to boost our economy. It is estimated that the delays caused by the various complaints will result in investment projects worth up to €3-4 billion. An authority which is not a party to the proceedings shall have the right of appeal where there is a specific provision of the law on the right of appeal or where the right of appeal is necessary in the public interest under its control. Consequently, the right of appeal may, on the basis of public interest, also fall within the competence of an authority whose task is to monitor the public interest but which has not taken a decision in that case. There is no precise concept of public interest and it is difficult to define it. It would therefore be justified to restrict the right of appeal to a public authority only to cases where the right to appeal is expressly governed by the law. In future, we will also have to look at the provisions of specific laws and consider whether they are justified in all cases. This bill clarifies the scope of the right of appeal and eliminates, for example, problems of interpretation in the public interest. The limitation of the authority’s influence can also be justified by the attempt to ease the court’s litigation jam without at the same time undermining the legal protection of citizens. In the past, the Constitutional Committee of the Parliament has also often taken a position on the authority's right of appeal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the exceptional nature of the authority’s right of appeal in the area of administrative law and can also be seen as problematic when it is examined in conjunction with Article 21(1) of the Constitution, which requires an appropriate procedure. The administrative procedure in which the authority is opposed to the citizen cannot be regarded as an appropriate procedure. Specific provisions relating to the right of appeal must be clearly needed and the general rule contained in the Administrative Law cannot be considered justified. On this basis, I propose that Parliament approve this bill to amend Article 6(2) of the Administrative Law so that the authority has the right to appeal if the law so provides.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u139	The 9th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 26 June 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-25-ps-25.u140	The 10th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 26 June 2015.
