ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u1	The second item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Grand Committee. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to Mr Gustafsson and other intermediate questions on the impact of education cuts on growth, educational equality and skill levels. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. Mr Gustafsson will take the floor for the first time in the debate. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. And now, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u3	Sir! We have been born to Finland, which is one of the best countries in the world with really all indicators. The previous generations — our parents, grandparents and generations before them — worked hard to give us more opportunities than they had. Finland is now in a very difficult situation. Government debt is growing, the economy is not. Expenditure exceeds revenue. The money is not enough to cover the welfare society to the extent that it has grown in good times. Our competitiveness, or our survival in global competition, has collapsed. Unemployment is growing fastest throughout Europe, which increases hopelessness and feeling ill. What is most worrying is the capacity of Finnish society to renew itself. The previous governments have not been able to reform Finland and even its brightest success story, Finnish education, enough to respond to the rapid change in the world. Finland is in a situation where there are no easy solutions available. Action must be taken in all sectors: to adapt the economy, to make the most painful cuts. We need to restore competitiveness in the labour market and reform Finland. Central government debt increases by about half a million euros each hour. In order to stop indebtedness, the government is forced to make cuts everywhere, unfortunately also in education, as it is the second largest item of expenditure in both the state and local government budgets after social welfare and health care. When our economy grew, we could also develop our education system by increasing expenditure. Now that the economy is not growing and expenditure chronically exceeds income, this is no longer possible. We have to consider how we can achieve better results with less resources. Practices need to be developed, reforms need to be made. Our education system threatens to lag behind the rapid pace of change in the world around us. The greatest threat to Finnish education, research and civilisation is not cuts, but if we do not boldly reform. Mr President! As a small country, our strengths are in education, high skills, innovation and quality education. This is what we're known for in the world. Finnish comprehensive school is still the world's top level, but at the same time we see that this will not automatically be the case in the future. The learning results are weakening. International and domestic studies show that our 15-year-olds know less than they used to. It doesn't make me feel any better that it's a trend in the West. The decline in learning outcomes has not slowed down, even though we are spending more euros on education and research today than ever. According to the Pisa study, the competence of Finnish young people has deteriorated in all content areas. More than 10 percent of our young people are missing a secondary degree. About 95 per cent of the age group start at second grade after primary school, but only 85 per cent pass it. Every young person deserves a vision of the future and a good education without which the future labour market will no longer be able to cope. You can say that elementary school has been captured by its fine history. During the last term of the government, it was clear how there was no clear vision for the development of comprehensive school. There was the same lack of vision in science policy. Resources are scattered and the division of work between universities has not developed. The findings of several international and domestic studies, such as the Status of Science 2014 report, show that funding and resources for higher education and research are fragmented. We are unable to achieve the kind of impact that comparable peer countries have been able to achieve. One of the challenges facing our education and training system is that we are forced to respond now. The reform of the content and structures of education, including the way in which it is done and the learning process, is absolutely essential. The pace of change in the labour market for the future is enormous. Jobs are disappearing and new jobs are emerging. The need for knowledge is changing. The reform of the education system is a very exciting task for this government, even in a difficult economic situation, and in reality it is also a very exciting task for savings. The Government Programme's vision of competence and education is to make Finland a country in which you want to learn new things all the time. We want Finnish education to be renewed so that we can continue to be at the forefront of education, skills and modern learning. Knowledge and training is one of the main government change programmes. With six key projects in competence and education and 19 measures, we aim to achieve a permanent change in Finnish education. We will invest EUR 300 million in implementing these transformation projects over the next three years. We want to renew the Finnish comprehensive school to the 2020s. New curricula will be introduced in our comprehensive schools next autumn. Our goal is to improve learning outcomes, respond to the skills needs of the future and make learning inspiring throughout life through new pedagogy, new learning environments and the digitalisation of teaching. The new curricula highlight phenomena-based learning, digital skills, comprehensive learning and the application of knowledge, creativity and social skills. Many schools in Finland already learn in a new way today. Many teachers have courageously set out to try new things, not only their own experiences but also new research on learning, abandoned the traditional model of mass education, and freed children from desks to be learners of their own unique self and just as valuable. The Government wants to support the reform of pedagogy by encouraging experiments. A pilot centre will be set up within the Finnish National Board of Education, which will also be responsible for disseminating good experiences, as well as a centre of excellence in learning environments, in order to make the use of the premises of schools as much as possible to support new learning. We're gonna bring every elementary school kid a day with an hour of exercise. An hour of physical activity per day is carried out by expanding the Mobility School project into a national one. The success story of Finnish comprehensive school is based on skilled, respected and highly educated teachers who have exceptionally wide educational freedom to use their skills in the best interests of students. We want to support teachers in their important work, we want them to succeed. We want them to be the best in the world in the future, and that is why we are investing in them. We will launch a teacher training development programme and renew both teachers’ basic and continuing education so that our teachers have tools to meet the new world’s skills needs. The Government will invest a total of EUR 121 million in the reform of comprehensive school over the next three years, and almost EUR 50 million in the development of teachers' skills. Finnish comprehensive school, compared internationally, is very equal. The differences between schools and geographical differences in learning outcomes are still small. In the most recent Pisa studies, the differences between schools are the second smallest among all participants and between pupils the lowest share of knowledge. On the other hand, we must take very seriously the signs that show that equality in education in Finland is also slowly crumbling. In the future, we must ensure that each child, regardless of the family’s background, place of residence and wealth, has an equal opportunity to train and find his or her own path. Therefore, despite difficult cuts in education and training, the government wanted in particular to foster equality of opportunity and to allocate EUR 10.5 million in next year's budget to promote educational equality by supporting schools in more challenging areas. At the Ministry of Education and Culture, we will start a wide-ranging work to strengthen equality in education and training. In addition, the Government wants to maintain the education guarantee and develop the youth guarantee more in the direction of the Community guarantee. Supporting the educational opportunities of immigrants is a particularly big challenge. Here we are in front of a new one in Finland. Mr President! The first steps of learning and growth are taken even before basic education during early childhood education and pre-school education. In early childhood education, our children are raised, taught and cared for by trained and well committed personnel. Early childhood education today is much more than just child care during the working day of the parents. Early childhood education is a pedagogical, goal-oriented activity that supports the growth, development and learning of a child. The savings of EUR 140 million also affect early childhood education during this government term. Understandably, it's a painful thing. The Government seeks to implement the savings through a reform that guarantees every child the right to early education. Every child, every child, will have the right to a course of pedagogical, goal-oriented early childhood education 20 hours a week. It is five hours more than in our neighbouring country of Sweden. Full-time early childhood education is available to families whose parents or guardians work full-time, study full-time or are entrepreneurs. If the development of the child or the social causes of the family so require, the child is still entitled to full-time early education. As part of the government's necessary austerity measures for children over the age of three, the size of personnel in day-care centres will be increased by increasing the ratio between children and educators from 1/7 to 1/8. The Government considers it important not to increase the size of day-care centres for children under the age of three. These smallest children need the most care, attention, and adult arms. In the reform of the right to early childhood education, we want to safeguard the freedom of choice of families and the opportunity to influence the service they receive. In contrast to the savings, the government wants to invest in improving the quality of early childhood education. The revised early childhood education law came into force at the beginning of August. The Government will launch a development programme for early childhood education. For the first time in history, the Finnish National Board of Education prepares the new foundations of the early childhood education plan, which emphasizes the pedagogy of early childhood education. As part of the development programme, we will increase the number of one-off university-educated kindergarten teachers by 120 in 2016. In-service training and competence development of early childhood education staff are strengthened both in day care centres and in family day care. Mr President! New jobs need to be created to replace jobs lost in the restructuring of the economy. This can only be achieved with new skills and innovativeness. Savings in secondary vocational education and training force us to reform structures so that quality education can continue to be maintained. The Government has launched as one of its leading projects a reform of secondary vocational education and training aimed at modernising the structures, funding and the way in which education is done. We will reform the entire legislation, funding, guidance and qualification system of education. We avoided duplication, unnecessary bureaucracy and regulation. We increase the agility of education and the ability to respond quickly to changing needs in working life. We add learning in the workplace and individual study paths. The threshold for organising apprenticeships will be reduced by reducing the administrative and financial burden on employers. We will introduce a new education contract as a flexible and attractive way of completing a degree by learning. The basic pillars of vocational education and training are maintained by ensuring further learning. We renew vocational qualifications to better recognise previously acquired skills. More than 380 separate qualifications from the overlapping and confused system will be transferred to more extensive qualifications. The ability of vocational education and training to reform and reform qualifications faster is one of the fates of our competitiveness in order to continue to provide the skills needed in working life. Mr President! With the Government’s top project, we speed up and speed up the transition of young people to work. Only 60 per cent of those with a matriculation examination have started further studies one year after completing the matriculation examination. The median age of starting university studies is 21 years. Only half of our students complete their studies in the target period. We simply cannot afford these figures. We encourage our higher education institutions to move to selection tests to measure the suitability of young people rather than long-term memorized information. We will increase co-operation and working life links between secondary and tertiary level. Throughout the year, studies, such as exams and online studies organised by universities, allow for flexible completion of studies in different life situations. Mr President! Finland spends EUR 2 billion on science and research in 2015. About half of this is allocated to the Ministry of Education and Culture and less than one third to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment. Among the OECD countries, our efforts remain at a relatively good level. However, the future will be more rigorous in economic terms. On the other hand, the results have not improved sufficiently as a result of the investments. On the contrary, Finland's share of the world's highest scientific publications has fallen. The sectoral distribution of doctoral degrees does not necessarily correspond to the need for working life. There is not enough international research. There are cuts in research, but even after that we spend good EUR 1.9 billion of government funding on research every year. The Government's growth investments bring the necessary impact and stronger business cooperation to research. When resources are scarcer, we need to do things better. We need to reform our policies and focus on the essentials. We require higher education institutions to build up skills and examine overlapping educational responsibilities. Universities must profile, clarify and intensify cooperation and division of labour both among themselves and with research institutions in education, research, structures and international cooperation. By the end of February, the Ministry of Education and Culture will ask universities to submit proposals for a clearer division of labour, stronger centres of expertise and closer cooperation. Next spring, in the performance negotiations between the Ministry of Education and Culture and higher education institutions, we will focus on modernising the structures and division of labour in education. The decisions of higher education institutions are supported by strategy funding, the profile funding of the Academy of Finland and the new round of capitalization. The Government’s leading project on higher education institutions is to strengthen cooperation between universities, research institutes and industry in order to commercialise research results. We believe that we can get much more out of top research as know-how, business, growth and jobs. Challenge Finland – a challenge-based and solution-oriented research programme will be launched in order to strengthen the needs of the business community and meet public research. The Government has also decided on one-off growth contributions from key projects to higher education and research. The mandate of the Academy of Finland will be increased by EUR 30 million in 2016. A new EUR 70 million capitalisation round will be allocated to universities in 2018. In addition: The grants granted by Tekes will be increased by a total of EUR 59 million to improve and diversify cooperation between business and universities. In total, EUR 132 million will be allocated to Tekes over three years. In addition, we will dismantle the barriers to education exports both from higher education and from secondary education. The introduction of tuition fees for students outside the EU and the EEA will improve and diversify the opportunities for Finnish universities to export education. Mr President! As you can see, the government has ambitiously set out to reform the Finnish education system in a situation where the economy does not grow and needs to focus on doing things with less money but better. The solutions to Finland’s economy and future are in our own hands. We could continue to live as a debt to future generations and not make the necessary reforms, but we know that it is neither a sustainable nor a just road. This government, just like the previous one, will have to make painful cuts in education as well. All the present parliamentary parties, including those who signed this interim issue, have been making these cuts over the past ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u6	Mr President! As the first signatory to the interim issue, I welcome the fact that the first intermediate issue concerns the excessive cuts in education and research by Prime Minister Sipilä's Government, cuts in the future of children and young people and Finland. But I am unhappy that the government is making such massive cuts to the foundations of Finnish society. During the last government term, a total of EUR 1.7 billion was saved cumulatively, and even though 523 million were added, the savings and cuts were large, just above the pain limits, partly above it. As a result of major cuts, the chairmen of all parties promised at the end of the last term that education would no longer be cut off. But what is the government doing? Over the past years, we have been able to talk proudly to Finns and foreigners about how we have a high-quality education system for equality and good skills. We have been able to talk about a genuinely national education policy in which everyone has won and also the weakest have been taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u11	Mr President! The Finnish education system produces great results. We can see them every day in this society. Schools and educational institutions generate high levels of competence and staff work with iron skills. However, as a teacher of the young generation, I have also seen the other side of the coin. Although I was able to teach extremely smart and talented young people in various secondary schools, I wonder in my work whether they will be given sufficient opportunities in the world of the future, where the most important skills are self-employment and enterprise, the application of knowledge, community membership and lifelong learning. In school’s everyday life, it is not about money, but about raising responsible and competent citizens of the future. Juha Sipilä's Government will launch the most significant educational reforms in decades. In particular, basic education and upper secondary vocational education will be reformed. The change in education will be accelerated by key projects, which will have a significant financial contribution to make. The aim of the centre before the elections was to reform the learning methods of basic education and the structure of school day. For example, one hour of exercise during the school day was set as the goal. This will be achieved through the introduction of the Mobility School project into each of our schools. Digitalisation of basic education is the most ambitious of the key projects in education. Digitalisation is not progressed by technology, but by the skills of teachers ahead. The main focus of the project is on continuing teacher training and the development of new learning methods. The project brings learning to the everyday lives of children and young people already living in the digital world. It makes learning more meaningful and also brings the rest of the world closer to school. The reduction of regulation and bureaucracy must also be pursued decisively in the field of education and training. Closer cooperation between different levels of education and forms of education must be possible, for example, between universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences. Today, regulation prevents, in many places, cooperation between secondary and tertiary education. Public funding for education must move in a direction where regions have the freedom to produce the skills they consider best in line with their objectives. In line with the Government Programme objective, the promotion of education exports is progressing rapidly. The organisers of education are enthusiastic about the export of education, and this is also seen as an opportunity because of the scarcity of funding. The Centre strongly supports the second-degree reform expected by the vocational education and training field. The Centre relies on the knowledge of the education providers to carry the reforms through to the local level and to know the needs of the region. The number of degrees also needs to be rationalised. In future, we must have one way of awarding qualifications and one system of qualifications. You have to be ready for a new way of thinking. For example, teachers’ annual working hours could be tried at a secondary level. This will support the introduction of new, more flexible approaches as part of the transformation of learning and teaching. Workplace learning needs to be stepped up. Current and, in particular, future working life requires the capacity to develop and train specialist skills in a flexible way. The reality of today's young people is no longer life-sustaining careers in the service of a single employer, but the continuous development of self and professional competence. Mr President! Finally, Sipilä's Government programme aims to make Finland a country where you want to learn new things all the time and which is the leading country in education, competence and modern learning. The unfortunate fact is that this government too will have to cut, but fortunately not as much as the previous one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u17	Mr President! Through first-class education and skilled teachers, Finland has risen to the world map time and again. For a small country, a high level of competence is a vital prerequisite for the success of international competition. In the future, we will only succeed if we succeed in transforming our expertise into a fast-changing environment. The authors of the intermediate issue are rightly concerned about the impact of savings in education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u20	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the recommendation made by the Council of Presidents: group speeches may take up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u21	Mr President! If it were heard elsewhere in the world, for example in Asia, that the government in the country of education that was one of the best in Finland for over three months would aim to reduce the duration of education, reduce the level of education, reduce the quality of education and significantly reduce the financial investment that is still in use, we would be laughed at. The highest level of competence, competition at the level of competence and smart growth created jointly by each of the Finns have always been the key aims of Finland's education and economic policy. The results speak for themselves, as the OECD report for 2009 states that it was Finland’s decision to invest in education, research and innovation that guided Finland to a stronger and knowledge-intensive growth path. Nevertheless, Prime Minister Sipilä's Government has focused exclusively on improving Finnish price competitiveness at the expense of real competitiveness. The Social Democrats do not believe that the increase in productivity leaps and innovation-driven high value added will take place with government drugs: cuts in wages and reductions in skills. The Social Democrats cannot include additional cuts of 3 billion in education and training over former savings. We demand that the government carry out an independent impact assessment of its policy choices and refrain from any action that would permanently harm Finland's competitiveness and economic growth. In our own option, we want to build the conditions for increasing Finnish competitiveness by increasing the level of knowledge and education even further, not by deliberately lowering it. This is the only way to achieve genuine savings. Mr President! Economicist James Heckman has said that the dollar invested in early childhood education produces it 7 to 10 times back. The OECD results also show that long-term participation in early childhood education is clearly reflected in the learning outcomes of 15-year-olds. The importance of early childhood education for learning and the child’s subsequent development is beyond doubt. Even in the years of recession — even in the years of recession — Finland was considered to be able to provide for subjective day care rights and group sizes of day-care centres, early childhood education when there is a profitable investment in both economic and social capital and social cohesion. The Social Democrats do not leave children, their parents, the kindergarten staff and experts unheard of. The SDP has an alternative to these surgeries. We are looking for a parliamentary reform of early childhood education as a whole: the long-term plan is to reform the staff structure and the staff size of day care and to ensure the availability of labour in the future. It is absolutely pointless for us to say that these savings are only to be made. After all, the government's choice of values is that children's safe early childhood education should be cut, and instead it is only necessary to increase money, for example, to reduce car taxation or to reduce forest inheritance taxation. Mr President! The Finnish education system is known for its successful combination of high-quality competence, equality and efficiency. However, there has been a clear decline in the learning outcomes, school satisfaction, motivation and attitudes of young people in recent years. In order to halt the desperation of development and reform of comprehensive school, a comprehensive parliamentary reform of comprehensive school was carried out with all parliamentary groups and hundreds of expert interests. We were all in it. This approved road map strongly aligns the need for continuity of group size and equality funding and separate funding for the development of comprehensive school based on research evidence and common political will. It was a big surprise when after the parliamentary elections, the Sipilä Government decided against its promises to give up these investments. The end of the group co-financing alone will mean a direct reduction of 900 teachers next year and a scattering of pupils into different groups. When the grant is removed, the group size of basic education will be the central cutting point for municipalities. Teaching groups will grow exponentially, and the lay-off of teachers will again be taken as a saving activity throughout the country. The government has made an ideological choice. The promotion of equality in education and training is no longer at the centre of education policy during this term of government. Mr President! Still, like everyone else, a few remarks. Unfortunately, the government is also not investing in the implementation of the Youth Guarantee, in the skills programme for young adults and in raising the employment rate. This is disastrous because it is possible to increase the employment rate by guaranteeing at least everyone: [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Now we are going to vote. — Thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u24	Mr President! There are 200 Members of Parliament in this Chamber, and we are in a very privileged position, that is to say, each of us has the opportunity to realise our own dream of making a difference. I would venture to argue that it is behind almost every one of us in one way or another a system of equal opportunities education in Finnish society. We all come from very different backgrounds, regionally different places, we have different levels of education, we have all experienced different things along our path of life, but each of us in this room is united by the Finnish educational system. On this basis, I do not think it is excessive to say that Finnish education is the cornerstone of our society. Equality, equal opportunities, inclusion, competitive ideas, innovation and knowledge, work and entrepreneurship — all the elements that we as a society may need more than ever in this time, whether from an economic or environmental point of view or from the point of view of the well-being of people. Mr President! Now, however, the government is taking us in exactly the opposite direction. On the one hand, the government talks about the school of the future and its development, but on the other hand it is targeting direct cuts of EUR 600 million in education. According to OAJ's calculations, at the end of the parliamentary term, the government's operations have cut education by as much as EUR 3 billion cumulatively. The Government is also opening the door to the payment of education and is undermining the financial position of students through cuts in the support system. These are the things we cannot accept. If history has taught us something, then the surest path to failure and unwanted results in all areas of society will be achieved by significantly cutting education and thereby weakening a society of equal opportunities. The EUR 300 million earmarked for development is a drop in the sea at this point. They are not enough to produce the desired result. We will end up in a situation where future education and social development will be guided by cuts rather than vision and goals. Without a vision there is no commitment and without commitment there is no responsible, sustainable and productive development. A real reform in early childhood education, primary school, upper secondary school, vocational education and higher education and research also starts from investments. Mr President! Last week, we received a preview of what the cuts to universities would lead to. The University of Helsinki has to lay off up to 1200 employees. At the same time, our economy is in crisis and, as a result, many structures in society need reform. Higher education and research play an invaluable role in creating a more sustainable social system and in developing our export base, as well as new ideas, companies and work. Research and education are also part of the civilisation to which the values of our society, freedom of expression and developing and inclusive democracy rest. Education and research also make us part of the global world and its discussions. They give us the opportunity to be problem solvers, peace builders and creators of a new one. All these objectives are weakened by government cuts in education and research. Mr President! The world has changed significantly since the government directed cuts in education. A total of 15,000 to 30,000 asylum seekers are expected in Finland, and according to the information provided by Save the Children, Finland was 13.9. almost 700 minor asylum seekers have arrived by the time of their arrival. It is assumed that these figures will also lead to a significant increase in the number of permanent residents in Finland. The school plays an important role in the integration of these children and young people. How does the government feel that, in the midst of these major cuts, you are going to ensure the resources of the schools so that they can meet this need? Mr President! Cutting out of education is a choice of values. One of the most important events in my parliamentary career was two years ago when I received an e-mail from two 12-year-old boys in Espoo. In the message, the boys said they were worried about the value of their school. They felt that not everyone in their community could be what they really wanted to be, and they were not feeling well. The boys invited me to talk to the school, and when I said yes, they arranged for themselves the whole opportunity: contacted the principal, booked the day, invited all over 400 students, and, thanks to the courage of these boys, the community talked about two hours of dreams, participation and everyone’s right to their own story. It was shocking to see that a 12-year-old child has such a deep awareness not only of his own well-being, but of the ability to stand by and think: How is that person there, and what can I do to promote his well-being? Mr President! I hope that the same spirit will be maintained when we talk about the Finnish education system and its future and possible cuts. Finally, it is a debate on values that each of us must have with ourselves. What value do I attach to education when times are tight and everyone has to give up something? Where to settle the needs of the child and young person, and how high the risks Mr President! We agree with the above motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u25	Mr President! The education has already been cut enough, so all the parties swore under the parliamentary elections. Let us make a choice of values, not cut out of education any more, and that is how Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, the current Minister for Education and Culture, continued after the elections. Just a few months later, a government program was published, the content of which was completely different from these promises. The only sustainable way to balance public finances is to increase employment rates and reduce unemployment. Therefore, all decisions now being taken should be assessed from the point of view of their impact on employment. If we want to improve employment, there will be no sense in cuts in education. The cuts now proposed directly increase unemployment. Large cuts in funding at all levels of education are targeted specifically at staff, because staff costs represent a significant part of the total cost of training. For the University of Helsinki alone, we talk about 1200 people until 2020, which is 15% of the total staff. The OAJ estimates that as a result of these cuts, 10,000 jobs will be lost from the education and education sector by the end of the Government term. The cuts now proposed will also destroy the conditions for the creation of new jobs. Finland’s financial problems relate to a lack of demand and a changed business structure. During the parliamentary term, when nearly 3 billion people are cut from science, research, education, knowledge and product development, there will be no saving of 300 million in a one-off period for specific projects in any way. Finland has the most educated people in the world, but we are lagging behind in science. We simply cannot afford to weaken the conditions for science. Mr President! Education and culture have an important intrinsic value, both from the point of view of social equality and democracy. The idea of popular education has not been based on the commercialisation of innovations or on the creative economy, but on the promotion of general education and the development of democracy and citizens' social skills. These objectives have been slipped in many ways as a result of developments in recent years, but the government's policy on education and training is finally burying the principle of civic education. Planned tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA countries as well as increased loan focus on student support charge Finnish education. In addition, the number of Masters will be reduced by a fifth. Has Finland ever had a government whose declared aim is to lower the level of knowledge and education of the people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u28	Mr President! Cutting out of education is cutting out of the future. That is why I am now presenting a fictional but completely possible report on the future from the point of view of a boy named Petteri. At the age of three, Petteri starts part-time at day care. Petteri will soon have a need for speech therapy. Fortunately for Petteri, his parents can afford to pay for therapy in private. On the public side, this didn't work. The field has been waiting for the reform of early childhood education for over thirty years. And how does Sipilä’s government respond to this expectation? By limiting subjective day care rights and proposing cuts leading to larger group sizes. Lifelong learning should start with early childhood education. Now, with its actions, the government pulls the rug from under the feet of this goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u29	Mr President! The mid-term issue is justified, but it is not at a good time. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament asked the other opposition groups to postpone the question of the interval in education to a later date due to the strained labour market situation. Aggravating matters and deepening the lack of trust between the political leaders will not help the situation. The KD wants to be in the process of building an atmosphere that aims at a smoothing-out of confrontation and consensus, enabling the maintenance of well-being services, such as quality education, to continue. We believe that all energy should be directed right now at restoring peace at work and seeking new solutions for the implementation of the social pact. The overall interests of the Finnish people must be given priority. The Christian Democrats themselves share the criticism of the mid-term issue of the government's cuts in education. We are very concerned about the adequacy of funding for education and research and we will propose significant changes to the proposed cuts in our alternative budget. Mr President! Saving children's well-being is a short-sighted policy. Day care groups are already large, and therefore the KD does not accept the government's proposal to increase the group sizes of day care centres even further. Reducing nurses from day care centres means immediate weakening of children’s everyday lives. The work of nurses is becoming increasingly demanding as the responsibility is increased and, as times deteriorate, a more symptomatic group of children. In basic education, the government also increases group sizes. This weakening is directly hit by the foundation of Finnish competence and civilisation. Also very shortsighted are cuts in research, development and innovation activities. The research mandate of the Academy of Finland is proposed to be reduced by EUR 10 million. Tekes and the centres of excellence (SHOK) will be reduced by EUR 130 million by 2019. The government’s idea that savings for universities and universities of applied sciences, for example, can only be accumulated by cutting back on administration is not realistic. We have already heard, for example, about the negotiations started by the University of Helsinki to reduce personnel by 1200 persons by 2020. It is clear that the reductions will also have a strong impact on research and teaching staff. In the past, education, research, development and innovation have been the basis for Finland's rise. They are the key to international success. The Government has set itself the goal of bringing Finland up by means of innovations, but the cuts are very contrary to this objective. We ask what basis the Government intends to build the growth and success of Finland in the future. In its alternative budget, KD will provide additional funding for research, development and innovation activities. We need more successful companies based on technological innovation in our country. Mr President! Competence has been a Finnish strength. Our effective education system is known internationally, for example, through success in Pisa studies. This government has a place for a thousand dollars to develop a concept that makes our education system, especially our basic education, a successful export product that strengthens our economy. It is also very important that, in the future, everyone in Finland, like the rest of Europe, has equal study rights despite their convictions. The government is trying to extend the working life. Nevertheless, the government will cut funding drastically, for example, from the preparatory training of young people with disabilities and disabilities, which will enable them to move to full vocational secondary education and provide them with the capacity to live independently. From the point of view of central government, this is not about large sums of money, but at the personal level it is about very important things. Where's the heart of the government? Education is a key means of increasing opportunities for people with part-time skills to work. It does not make sense to cut these possibilities. It is in everyone's common interest that disabled young people also find their way to work. Mr President! As a parliamentary group, the Christian Democrats do not share the intermediate issue but share the concern about cuts in education. We are very concerned about the impact of government cuts in education on the future of our country as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u30	Following on from the speeches that have been made, I give a comment to Mr Grahn-Laasonen, and then we move to the stage of debatability. Talk to me for up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u31	Mr President! I think that everyone in this Chamber and everyone in the House also knows what a difficult situation Finland is in: in a much more difficult situation than we could have imagined some time ago. What kind of future will we give our children, those schoolchildren today, if we do not stop this debt and, above all, if we do not make the necessary reforms to the Finnish pride that is valuable and dear to all of us, namely our education system? In this Chamber a moment ago, the SDP asked for educational promises, and it reminded me — and I dug it up in advance — of the speech by President Antti Rinteen on 29 May in this Chamber, in which he explained the option of the SDP for government cuts. In this speech, he explains how the SDP is prepared to cut innovation money and freeze indices and cut EUR 270 million from the second level. How does this relate to what you said today about your educational promises? The SDP had four years to reform the education system. You had four years in the Minister of Education's briefcase. During that period, Finland was also in a difficult situation, and hundreds of millions of euros had to be cut into training, and these were the cutting decisions taken by all the parties who signed the interim issue in this Chamber. SDP, you would have had four years to reform. During your period there was a drop in the Pisa results, and you would have had the opportunity to make corrections, to reverse the learning results to a new rise. You say in your interplay that teachers need further training and more skills to respond to this great change in the digital world. Did you increase the funding for teacher training in order to increase this level of competence? You also told us here how you went on to undertake a structural reform of secondary education. But what happened? You yourself voted against your own proposal and that restructuring never went to the finish line. In the last period of the training export journeys were carried out, but it did not generate turnover from the training exports. You did not agree to dismantle the legal obstacles to the export of education. Your science policy, was it? At least the level of research was not raised and the fragmentation of our university network was not significantly developed. You also told me here about the government's youth guarantee project. This government is committed to its important objective and wants to further develop it. But did it work last season’s Youth Guarantee, which was introduced on the basis of the principle that it received substantial and significant financing with debt money? It didn't work. Instead, this government is going to put together a new Community guarantee model, search for the best practices that have already been tested and tried in many municipalities in this country, and in that way the aim is to bring about permanent change and impact, and also to bring the young people who are not currently in education there. Similarly, this reform of vocational education and training here has become so many speeches. I must say that it is one of the most important key projects of this government. However, you measure success in vocational education, Mr Gustafsson, with old-fashioned indicators, by measuring local education, when all trends show that knowledge is the key — right? — knowledge is crucial, in which case it is necessary to measure, above all, that competence, and can be achieved through very individualised, diverse means. One of the ways is to increase workplace learning, because such educational learning is not so good for all young people. After all these words — and I look forward to this debate — I would like to say that I am very happy to write down the proposals for development, the proposals for reforms and reforms during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u32	At this point, we're pretty specific. Now we are going to the debatable stage and I would ask those who wish to ask for the floor to press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u33	Mr President! I was surprised by the style chosen by the Minister for Education and Culture. Let us say that the attack is the best defence, but I myself had thought that we were having a civilised, factual debate on the basis of facts. After leaving the Ministry of Education's duties, I wrote a blog containing about 25 individual things that I put in motion or made progress. I do not think it is appropriate to start telling them in this context. You said that Mr Gustafsson is old-fashioned when he is concerned about local education in vocational education. Does the Minister of Education know what he's talking about? We MEPs are getting a lot of contact from young people between 16 and 17 years of age who are at home on Fridays doing so-called remote tasks. They're not in the workplace, they're in good training and guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u34	Thank you. Now it's Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u35	Mr President! I do find it a little unusual that we have now started playing with these cumulative figures. In my opinion, instead of talking about these cumulative figures, we should be talking about the right figures and looking to the future and how we can develop and reform this Finnish education, instead of taking the point of view of the matter itself, i.e. what kind of know-how we will produce in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u36	Mr President! The Minister said that half a million euros an hour will be in debt. It's a matter of concern. I would therefore like the debate today to be constructive and not this opposition ramba that is taking us nowhere. Now that we are looking at opportunities and the future, and there are positive things, including this export of education, I would have asked the Minister about it. The dismantling of legislative barriers is one of the things that is done in the case of training exports in order to make it smoother, are there other measures that could be taken in addition to increasing educational exports? For example, are there plans to set up a joint export unit for universities to market Finnish education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u37	Mr President! Congressman Elomaa, that's right. The debt is growing. Finland needs more income. Representatives Andersson and Toivola, the state's chest is emptiness. At the same time, you are turning your back on a new source of funding, education exports. It is not the responsibility of a Finnish taxpayer to pay for education in China or India, but for education in Finnish young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u40	Mr President! Instead of these mechanical cuts, I would ask the Prime Minister’s deputy if you ever considered genuinely making structural reforms. We Social Democrats are offering you, even afterwards, opportunities for a different type of fiscal adjustment. I am very interested in why there is no attempt to increase the employment rate. This would be important and could be done by guaranteeing a secondary degree for all. Why do you not seek to extend working lives by means other than a 20% reduction in the level of a master's degree? Why, then, do you not extend your career to the fact that between 40,000 and 60,000 young people are waiting 2 to 3 years to study at a university or university of applied sciences? Wouldn’t it make more sense to go to lengthen the career of this student to be dismantled? I'd like to suggest that we lift it up as a cure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u41	Mr President! When the Minister there hoped for alternatives not only to criticising cuts, we Greens have a whole budget — we can pass it on to the Minister — which would be possible to bypass these cuts in education as a whole. Perhaps one example: the whole of next year's training cuts could be cancelled by giving up overcompensation of the kilometric allowance and a moderate reduction in commuting. But then here, as we keep playing that line between reforms and cuts, I do not believe that anyone is opposed to reform. But when I think of the communities that are now in the midst of these possible cuts, the people who are doing that work, research, teaching, caring for them, it will be difficult for them to see what that reform will bring if it first falls from the base of resources, as it were, and then we start to reform. There must be some reason to say that it starts with some kind of first vision of reform, which also provides for the detection of extra resources, as if they were not needed, or efficiency or duplication, or whatever it is. I think this is what's happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u42	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen talks about the challenges of public finances, indebtedness and economic growth. But precisely in order to meet these challenges, we need new growth, new jobs, new success products, new sales skills and new ideas. I would like to ask the government once again: what is the point of going through such cuts as, according to all the experts, increase unemployment and, in particular, weaken and cut the conditions for future growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u43	Värderade Talman! Regeringen hotar med sina sparåtgärder skrota den mest fundamentala principen i vårt utbildningsväsende: att skapa Jämlika förutsättningar för alla barn, Oberoende av deras bakgrund. Varför ska barnen betala det högsta priset för regeringens nedskärningar?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u44	Mr President! We have a very high-quality education system. At this stage, I would like to raise a question which has not yet been discussed in this Chamber today. We have many immigrants who need integration, language training and so on. It has often been competitive on a number of occasions, and the school groups that provide language training have been at a good level, to say the least, fragmented or unhomogeneous. I would also like to raise the issue here that, now that there are many immigrants and it is important to integrate and provide language training at a high level, we could also direct funds to educational institutions, to those who have the opportunity to start effective, intensive language training and integration and also to teach Finnish culture, customs, etc.,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u45	Mr President! I would just like to say to Minister Grahn-Laasonen that the government has changed. Then I would like to say that I have received quite a lot of contact from children's parents and grandparents, who have been concerned, with the fear of how the future of children will be determined by these surgeries. One of the key issues there is the fact that those people are afraid that the equal opportunity to get started in society through these cuts will be reduced. These people feel that the government has betrayed them. The promises made at the time of the elections are promises. Condemned promises are false promises, and cuts are cuts. You can't hide it by using the word "cut" instead of "renewal." It's a $3 billion cut that this government is taking away. Yes, people understand that there are fewer pairs of hands in early childhood education working with those children. These people understand that there are larger groups in primary schools and that there is less quality in schools where quality money has been spent from now on. These people will understand that. I would hope that this government will now learn from Sweden. Prime Minister Löfven is about to make EUR 2.5 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u46	Mr President! Yes, we must now be very concerned about the government's intention to cut children's subjective day care rights. Indeed, this decision puts children in a completely unequal position. You're also preparing large day care groups. It cannot be in the best interests of the child to increase group sizes, to increase anxiety and to reduce safety. Minister, what kind of future will you give to the children whose day care and education you are now in surgery?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u47	Mr President! When you listen to this from the board of directors, you can feel a little special for kindergarten teachers, comprehensive school teachers, university researchers and other education professionals. The Minister of Education here attacks in different directions when his task is to defend Finnish education and culture, Somehow the value choices of this government are of the kind that I am very concerned that you see that Finland manages by reducing people's salaries and cutting education more than ever. You're looking for a drop in the level of education. What strategy for the success of the early 20th century is this, as we should increasingly compete for equal education, skills and knowledge for children and for strengthening their self-esteem in the work of the future? I want to finish by saying what Kari Uusikylä, one of the strong developers of comprehensive school, has said,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u48	Thank you. And now on the government side, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Soini. — — — — I think a minute's enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u49	Mr President! On the last day of the last parliamentary sitting, the present opposition party, then the SDP, voted against the proposals it had prepared itself. It does say a great deal about this situation. There's talk here that you have to trust in early childhood education. Yes, I agree. Those hand pairs are needed. Why, then, do you not trust that a father and mother who really raise their children will have a choice as to who is at home and who is at work? Why don't you want this? Then there are the tuition fees for the EU and the EEA countries. That's the money that goes to those colleges. Why don't you support it? And finally, on vocational training: It is important that it is there that masters and coaches can then teach and learn from one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u50	Mr President! This response by the Deputy Prime Minister reflects the policy of the entire government: trying to hide the fact that there are real cuts in the future of children, making real cuts in universities, innovation, research, product development. This government cuts just off the wrong end and, just as has been said here, creates a situation in which the level of skills is going to fall and there will soon be bulk production. This is the political line of this government. It is also related to education and education, to the development of skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u51	Mr President! It is clear that there is a need to save, and it is also quite clear that the government also had to look at how small sums of education can be saved. But the fact that so much is saved from education was, admittedly, a surprise to many. For example, the RKP would have been willing to undertake the second-degree reform that was then brought down in March of this year. It does show that there was also a will to change things in the opposition. Now we are trying to tell you that these reforms of yours are reforms. They are certainly part of the reforms, but it is still honest to admit that there is a great deal of cutting here. I think it would be good to say it out loud here. The second thing I would like to ask the Minister is that when we now listen to our scientific community, for example in the Committee on the Future last week, it is very concerned that Finland's R & D spending has fallen from 3.9% to 2.9% in six to seven years. What is the government going to do about this because this development cannot continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u52	Mr President! Last Wednesday, Prime Minister Sipilä gave an extraordinary TV speech in which he told one and a half million Finns that Finland is in debt of EUR 1 million per hour. Now, in his speech here, Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen tells us that Finland is about half a million euros an hour in debt. It can therefore be concluded that Finland's debt rate has halved in one week, Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that comprehensive school will be reformed, education will be reformed. Yes, this is pure cutting: EUR 3000 million cumulatively in four years. At the same time, the budget published yesterday in Sweden is:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u53	Mr President! The government has made a clear choice of values when it decides to cut out of education. It is not a matter of necessity or necessity, even if you say otherwise. The government has taken a clear line and is undermining education at all levels. In this way, a systematic drop in the level of education has never been seen in Finland. The government's education policy has been severely criticised by all sections of society: Economic experts say that the government is endangering the growth of the future economy. Poverty researchers criticize the drastic cuts in day care and basic education for driving Finland back into a class society where uneducated and poverty are once again inherited. Training experts point out that saving education has long-term effects. We cannot lose one generation without it retaliating for a long time, many generations. The criticism of cuts in education is so widespread and unanimous that it is absolutely necessary to ask once again:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u54	Mr. Speaker! Yes, this debate is important and justified. Whenever surgery is carried out, there is obviously a risk that the Saxon will also hit the core, which in this case is the Finnish education system, After all, this government has chosen three ways to make cuts: One of these is the reforms that have been discussed here. One is the relaxation of standards, they are often unpleasant here on the education side, it is the other road we are taking. The third is the removal of project and special funding. However, I think that this is a better way than during the previous parliamentary term, when the central government shares of the municipalities were cut down with sorrow. It has now been said that there will be 30 million out of that group co-financing, and that is a lot and that is unfortunate, but in the last parliamentary term, it was not EUR 30 but EUR 400 million out of the state contributions of the municipalities, that is to say, that is to say, it was EUR 400 million out of the whole group.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u55	Mr President! I think it is very good that we can compare the differences in education policy in real terms and with that of the last and this regime. Surely this chastisement, which I am sure everyone in this Chamber is aware of, is because you have decided once and for all to save education by lowering the level of competence. It is an unforgivable mistake, and that should not happen in today's world. All these things on the list, which the chairman of the Committee on Education, for example, listed, will in practice result in you using more cheese on top of this already 3 billion. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister's deputy once again: do you know the new university research in which an investment of EUR 1 brings back EUR 6? Now we wonder why the government can afford not to invest in this and instead save 15 per cent of the research and teaching at the University of Helsinki. We offer structural reforms in place, but you are like molten wax. No reaction of any kind to whether the pass rate can be increased, whether the working life can be extended by dismantling this student union,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u56	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki, I can say first of all that when Sweden and Finland are unfortunately being cut down here on the education side too, it also has a lot to do with Sweden having done this labour market reform years ago and the employment rate is higher. And while we're still thinking about this, in what way,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u61	Mr President! Now the Government's policy on education has become clear: one hand will give one euro to schools and institutions, the other hand will take the EUR 10 away, and then it will be said that hey, we will develop. This is the government's education policy line? Mr President! Now that this is the first intermediate issue of this government to answer, it would, of course, have been a good thing if the Prime Minister had considered the time so that he could have been here to reply. I do not know whether this also indicates the government's attitude towards education. But the Deputy Prime Minister has said here that it is no big deal if we invest in the master—the race. So, at the same time, you cut out one third of the apprenticeship money, deprive young people of the opportunity to learn at work, and say that this is what you are investing in. You said, Deputy Prime Minister Soini, that there are no difficult decisions, there are the right decisions. I understand that this has not been difficult for you, but are they?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u62	Mr President! There were quite a few comments about debt and the level of surgery. Perhaps a small reminder that in the last seven years we have doubled our debt burden. We will be around EUR 105 billion at the end of this year, and this year we will also be taking EUR 5 billion in additional debt, less than EUR 20 billion in total at 2019 level. If we look at the education side again, next year we will cut some 227 million, and then in 2019 we will cut 884 million. Perhaps the basic answer to all this is: I understand the criticism and I believe that the whole of this Parliament is pro-educational, but the fact is that if we do not achieve jobs and economic growth, this cycle of cuts will unfortunately continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u63	Mr President! I still have this big picture to tell you. I have in my hand the mid-term issue of the centre, which has been tabled on 13 February this year, and here is where the second paragraph begins: "In the coming parliamentary term, there has been a cumulative cut in education of EUR 1.7 billion." We have checked the figures we are using here, almost EUR 3 billion, also through the Ministry of Education and Culture, that they are correct. Various experts do not like to be counted cumulatively, but this was the decision of the central government. Here's the first name of my esteemed representative Puumala. And then there's another thing. What is essential in this debate is that this toy should be opened up. If group sizes are increased in early childhood education, in primary school group sizes are raised, who are the losers there? The children who:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u64	Mr. Speaker! I hope that today will not just be a chapter of this chapter, but that we will be able to move on from this debate a little bit. Thus, during the last parliamentary term, EUR 430 million of central government contributions, EUR 100 million of upper secondary school education, EUR 165 million of basic vocational education, EUR 250 million of higher education. When everything comes together — I do not have time to list everyone — it will reach EUR 1.3 billion when it comes to public finances. Now this government is always talking about public finances, the combined economy of both the state and municipalities, and when Minister Stubb just told us the figure, this government will cut 880 million at the 2019 level, the previous government by 1.3 billion. We're in the same boat. That is why in this debate we need to talk about the future, about how we could do better. If you are just talking about numbers, you are going to miss out on your own, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u65	Mr President! I very much welcome this debate on these figures. It does say quite a lot that this government has decided to save EUR 10, as it were, and with one hand it will give EUR 1 back. The last government also had to save EUR 3 but gave EUR 1 back. I think it is about these values that we are going through here today: we are discussing which one of them is the more humane line, especially since we had to save so much during the last term of government. In that regard, I think it is important to pay attention to this thinking of Mr Puumala. Mr President! Now that there's still a chance, I'd like to ask you one more time: When, Mr Soini, you felt as a substitute for the Prime Minister that we were now investing in vocational education and training, I was left a bit unclear about that. I've asked you to invest in extending your careers. It would be a significant saving in public finances, an increase in one employment unit, 700 million more money in the state treasury, a sustainable reform of education policy and, of course, a desirable reform of the state economy. So why don't you take care of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u66	Mr. Speaker! In order to maintain a good spirit in this debate, I believe that the social democrats could now table the structural reforms that you would like to do in addition to the government. We bring technology to school, we introduce afternoons, we develop social guarantees in the direction of the Community guarantee, we develop apprenticeships in the right direction, we try to increase the duration of vocational education and training under the conditions of the organiser of education, we increase cooperation between secondary and tertiary level and so on, we improve higher education and so on. These are all the structural reforms we are taking forward. What was I supposed to do besides this? Now we know from your line that you would have liked to save much more than the government, in your election programme 270 million, but what else would you have liked to do than cumulatively over a billion cuts? It is now a good place to have an open debate about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u67	Mr President! I would like to return to this vocational training once again. As we have said on many occasions here, we were prepared to carry out the structural reforms already in the previous period. My question now is: how will the government guide and lead this process, to bring about the appropriate structural reforms? Everyone knows that savings will come into force in 2017, but the legislation will not come into force until the following year. How is it directed not to make decisions in the field that are not appropriate? This worry is real.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u68	Mr President! Yes, it must be acknowledged that this intermediate issue is justified and justified. During the last parliamentary term, the education system was fatally scrapped, and unfortunately this gloomy development will continue in this period as well. We now need to put education policy at the centre of the social debate, and in that sense I hope that the government will take this role responsibly — practically all the ministers are here, unlike in the last parliamentary term in the debate on the mid-term issue, where the Minister for Sectors usually had to stand alone to defend the government. This proves that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u69	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen said in his speech that our higher education networks and research resources are fragmented, that our educational responsibilities overlap and that knowledge is fragmented. You now promise to reform the way things work and focus on the essentials. That's good because it's necessary. Second observation: only half of our students complete their studies in the target period. Finland simply cannot afford these figures. With the Government’s key projects, you are now going to speed up and speed up the transition of young people to work. At the moment, graduation times are far too long, especially at the third level of education. Is it the case that the curricula of universities of applied sciences and universities are drawn up in principle from the point of view of the needs of the institution and not from the point of view and needs of students? How does the Minister of Education feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u70	Mr President! I don't think this history and numeral is going to take a lot of things forward. I think it is enough to say that this government:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u73	Deputy Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u74	Mr President! A pot on the kettle, a black side on both sides. That is what comes to mind when we look at what has been done and then we see what is being done in a difficult situation. It's no use pretending to be someone's problem. The first way — you are talking about extending careers, which is a good thing — is to maintain existing jobs. The second is that we should increase working time slightly, but you do not seem to be in favour of increasing working time and working time. 15 to 20 minutes would result in a productivity jump. Why don't you support it? Why aren't you in favour of a career? Why don't you come with me? Mr Kiuru, you have just said that there is a need to extend the working life. How will they be extended if working hours are not extended?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u75	Mr President! Clearly, if one third of apprenticeship training is cut, it will make it difficult for those government plans. Not in red tape, when there is indeed a difficult situation in the SME sector, apprenticeships are used. Unfortunately, however, this smells a bit of cheap labour if the financial resources are also to be allocated in such a way that this is lighter for employers. I would like to ask when the Deputy Prime Minister raised this matter with the Minister for Education: is it possible that this financial burden-sharing should take place in such a way that the older professional who directs and enables it qualitatively in the workplace, the master, would be financially supported through the employer, so that the working time that this master uses to enable it to learn at work would be supported by the company's salary?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u76	Mr President! Indeed, I think it is important now to skip a debate that does not appreciate the importance of education and education for Finland's future and consider how to do it for children, young people and adults who are in different educational institutions to learn the best possible skills of the future, that this does not go to such accusations that you did that and you did this. You're in charge now. Your decisions are those on which the Finnish education system will be changed in the coming years. And I am really, really sad and annoyed that in this new language there will be historic major cuts in early childhood education, primary schools, secondary schools, universities and higher education, the innovation system — which the CEO of Tekes considered completely intolerable — you call reform and development. Be honest. Be honest with me. And then I just want to say that it is not the case that next year's budget deficit target goes beyond what we can do with education in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u77	Mr President! I'll take the topical issue: I was at a class reunion last Saturday. When we were 12 years old, we went to middle school, and many of us then went to high school. We went to that middle school for five years, and our class had 40 students — a large group. And I wonder why it was good for us to go to school, we had no more distractions. We thought that we had the same class overseer for five years, that we had community, and that we had exercise. That is what the government has now increased: an hour of exercise a day. That was one good thing at our school back then. Of course, we are not going back now, but we need to think about what new ideas could be created, that peace in school might be improved. This system was good what happened back then. And we had a big group — when we're talking about this group size.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u78	Mr President! Day care centres are confused when group sizes are being raised and they say that is now development. Schools are also confused because in many municipalities the budget for reducing group sizes is being cut off and the group sizes are increasing, and this too is said to be development. This must be a little hard to understand in kindergartens and schools. Many children do well in a large group, but for some children large groups are a barrier to concentration and learning. In particular, different learners suffer in large groups, and there is a risk that many children and young people will fall off a normal learning path. Many studies show that support measures for children and young people produce better than any other investment and small groups are the best support measures for learning. I wonder how, contrary to all the experts and studies, the government will increase the size of groups and thus reduce the equality of opportunity for the smallest citizens. This savings are likely to be very costly over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u79	Three more speeches, followed by two ministerial speeches, and then we shall continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u80	Mr President! It must be admitted that this saving from education is a tight spot. I think that none of us would want to do that, but now these realities must be recognised, and the most important thing is how we can make the most of the resources we now have. There is no point in comparing Finland and Sweden in this situation. I think there are not too many people outside the Chamber who would not understand that the economic situation in Finland is currently different from that in Sweden; if there is still someone inside, I hope that it will soon be enlightened. The most important and major difference between the parties is what I am most surprised about here, even those who are opposed to education exports, who do not even accept that schools are given the right to take money from students outside the EU and the EEA and to spend that money on developing education in Finland. What's wrong with that? I simply cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u81	Mr President! The representative Elomaa here was amazed at the fact that 40 pupils in groups today could not achieve good learning outcomes and achieve the knowledge, skills and capacities that education should offer their pupils under the Basic Education Act. I have to say here that times have changed. As the government says, even in education, times change and, as a result, teaching methods, technologies and groups change as well. Our society is one where, unfortunately, inequality has grown, and it is also reflected in the school world. In a situation where the economy is not growing and there is too much debt, I believe that education must level out, not strengthen, the prevailing economic conditions. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you said that you are developing reforms that will enable the education system to withstand these cuts. I would like to ask whether you are absolutely certain that early childhood education, basic education and secondary school children and young people and adult students will be the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u82	Ala-Nissilä, Lauslahti, Arhinmäki and then ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u83	Mr President! Like Mr Satonen, I am surprised that if a Chinese or Indian comes to our university, invest in himself, that too should be financed with debt money. What's the point?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u86	Mr President! We have a lot of work to do. Let us take vocational training: 55% of the euro goes to education, and it is our job to ask how the euro will be used more and more in education, and that is a structural issue. We're going to the walls and everything else a little too much. Secondly, we must also say to the Greens and a little to the SDP that we should now consider where we are going to get the income to finance the education of our Finnish children. We need to think about diversifying funding. Among other things, the Government is bringing the right to tax deductions for donations to universities, and this will result in more financial income for universities. In addition, education exports will be a real opportunity for Finland to gain new incomes and jobs in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u87	Mr Arhinmäki, then let us give the floor to Mr Niinistö and then to the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u88	Mr President! Finland will only succeed in the future if we have a highly educated population: everyone receives at least a vocational qualification. A young person who has been excluded will pay about EUR 1 million during his or her life
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u89	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissilä replied: We maintain a well-being society because our children have better things to do — it is not that we say that because children are not willing to leave debt, we reduce the level of their education, we weaken Finland’s competitiveness, we weaken economic growth and we weaken our future success. The task of the economy is to maintain the well-being and civilisation of people, and the goal is that of well-being and civilisation. Mr President! As far as these complementary forms of funding are concerned, the Greens support, for example, the fact that universities can also obtain external funding. But you clearly have such an ideological choice here that public funding is reduced, payments are introduced into the education system, student aid is weakened, support for those who need it most in primary schools is weakened, as Mr Gustafsson said quite rightly. You discriminate against the education system, and I, as a civilised person, have always thought that there are civilised bourgeois people in Finland who are in favour of equality in education. Where are they all? Are there no more government parties left?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u90	And Minister Vehviläinen, one minute. Then Minister Grahn-Laasonen, the same, and Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u91	Mr President! We've been talking about value choices. The government's value choice is that Finland's economy will be put in order. It's behind all this. In my opinion, no parliamentary group can be with a long white neck for these training cuts — all of them. That's why I don't think this accusation makes much sense. I listened carefully to these group speeches and I note that there was so little talk of reform and reform. I think that is the case, however, that the opposition parties want to share the vision of education policy which we have here in the government programme and in the key projects, that it will work out for you, that is to say, the priorities that we propose for education policy, will also work for the opposition. I think that is a good thing in itself. I hope that next time, if the opposition makes a mid-term issue of education, it will be on substantive issues, not so much on this issue of money, because in financial matters we will not be able to get but to accuse and keep up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u92	Mr President! We are not here to hide the fact that painful cuts have to be made. I can say that no one will be happy to make these proposals or bring them to Parliament. But we are in such a difficult situation in Finland — and it has not been overlooked by anyone — that we are forced to make savings, unfortunately also from the second largest sector, namely education. What I wondered about in this debate — many good views, some good ideas — is to belittle the need for reform when it is quite obvious in our education system. Different indicators show that our current education and training do not meet the skills needs of the future and must therefore be able to reform it. And that is where we have 6 top projects and 19 different measures, within which there is an hour of more exercise in the day of schoolchildren, the renewal of pedagogy, new learning environments, digital learning, the historic big reform of vocational education and training, which focuses on:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u93	Mr President! This interim issue and Mr Gustafsson's speech reflect the common pain that is being felt in this Chamber about these expenditure savings in education and research, but the background is that when reforms were not made in Finland in time, the Finnish economy is stalling and now cannot sustainablely sustain the welfare society without these difficult choices. Representative Haglund referred to Tekes' authority to grant. They will have to be reduced, which is the result of the fact that we must balance government revenue and expenditure and stop debt. Finland is the world leader, among the top five in the world, in terms of funding for innovation research, but at the same time one has to ask whether we are qualitatively, that is, why these investments are not reflected in economic development and export statistics. That's why these resources should be directed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u94	I'm sorry to interrupt. — — — — Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u95	Mr President! When you listen to the government's response to the opposition's interplay and this debate, you get the feeling that we're on a different planet. When you talk about reforms, we talk about cuts. These cuts, which you have put in the budget now, are directed in such a way at young people, children through early childhood education, through basic education and then, finally, at the university level that they will continue this misery long into the future if you do not change your policy on education. People are genuinely concerned about what happens to their children, their grandchildren, how their success will manifest itself in the future. From this point of view, talking about the opposition not being able to ask for money is rather strange.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u96	Mr President! In the past, we have done well in the Pisa studies, and I believe that even after these reforms we will succeed in the Pisa studies. But what we are unfortunately also doing is immobility. A Finnish youth under 15 years of age moves almost least in the entire Western world. The world is increasingly hectic, working careers should be longer, so we are in a situation where we have to admit that an extremely good reform is that we get an hour more exercise until school day. I believe that there will be no negative response to this reform in this Chamber. I believe that everyone is behind this, so Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I would like to say thank you for this reform on behalf of all those in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u97	Mr President! It is quite true that it will be worrying if we have to cut as much education and education as has now been proposed. In that sense, the question of the interim must be understood. But one problem here, the opposition, is that there is a credibility problem here. First of all, where is your alternative to content and cutting sites? We've heard the green options. They would have liked to cut travel allowances, which would then reduce job search and job flow. But from the SDP, I have not yet heard of any kind of alternative to this content or cutting objects. Secondly, we must also bear in mind that during the last term of government this series of cuts was already initiated by you, and now we have to continue this, because last time there were no structural reforms which could have saved the education and civilisation world from these cuts. In that sense, I would like to see more concreteness in this debate. Mr President! I would have asked the Minister again: Could the Youth Guarantee provide a place of education for all those who have access to secondary education instead of workshops and courses? In what way can we remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u98	Mr President! We are talking about reform, but what are we actually talking about when we talk about reform of education? Who are the people who renew that teaching? After all, they are the education professionals, the people who work in day-care centres, schools, universities who do that teaching work every day. There has been talk of structures and walls, but it is precisely the staff, the well-being of the staff and the children and the young and their well-being that are actually being cut. I believe that this is the fundamental problem with this government reform speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u99	Mr President! For the University of Helsinki, cuts amount to a loss of more than EUR 100 million per year, and for the University of Eastern Finland, too, a loss of more than EUR 10 million. What happens to the regional units of these universities in Vaasa, Mikkeli, Savonlinna? Mr President! Up to this day I have genuinely believed that the whole parliament shares genuine concern that Finnish universities and universities must be located throughout Finland, so that we can have qualified professionals everywhere, including in Eastern and Northern Finland. Today, to my amazement, I have heard both from the group speech and from the Christian Democrats that this university field is fragmented and as such does not develop Finland, does not lead us towards the future and is more of a barrier and disadvantage to us. Now I would like to ask Minister Vehviläinen from the centre: how many higher education units do you want to dismantle from this country in order to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u100	In the meantime, the first signatory of the intermediate question, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u101	Mr President! These structural reforms, in which the Social Democrats have taken the initiative and are implementing them, are a long list. In this context, I would like to say, for example, about the last period of this structural development of vocational education and training. We launched this 2+1 model, where the year takes place in the workplace. It also becomes cheaper for society and is also good for that young person’s skills. We started the development of apprenticeships, from which the government now withdraws 30% of the money. There is also this reduction in the number of degrees for higher education — i.e. a complete reform of the funding system for universities of applied sciences and universities, which would encourage universities to work in such a way that graduation times would also be shortened — and also the profile of universities of applied sciences in their strengths, and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u102	Thank you, and now Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u103	Mr President! I'm gonna take that in the same boat. In my opinion, whether we can be in the same boat was an essential question when the frightening thing is that your boat is leaking, not in a very good condition and very small to share the cargo we should be concerned about. You're sitting on fire in other people's pants, and it's a pretty big and demanding job. Mr Lauslahti said that 55% of the money in vocational education and training will only go to education, but you have now decided to carry out a reform in which you are going to cut the EUR 248 million that you have announced as part of this reform. This is a policy in which the Social Democrats are not involved. In no case will we cut off the teaching, but we are only in favour of intervention in the structures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u104	When the chairman didn't use his first name, the first person to catch the last Kiuru was Kiuru. Now it's time for the second Kiuru, Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u105	Mr President! Ladies first, so it's the right thing to do. — Mr Gustafsson, in his presentation, expressed his concern about cutting the rise in skills. Concern is justifiable in itself, but I am not quite so pessimistic that there will be no shortage of professionals and women in the future, as will the masters and doctors. It is not a question of where we are going to get these professionals and women, the Masters and the Doctors. That is the point, the big question. During the last parliamentary term, I expressed my concern to the two previous education ministers about how many professors we have to train sales experts. The answer is that one — temporarily, I think it was another. Nothing was done about it. Now I ask the minister responsible: is this taken care of? I'm sure it's under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u106	Mr President! I would have come back to that issue of immigration that we raised in our speech. The Prime Minister has also stated that the current situation of asylum seekers is, in his view, already more worrying than the economic situation. Then we cannot ignore the fact that it must also put quite a lot of pressure on our education system. Also, immigration work, integration, is increasingly moving in the direction that as soon as possible to the normal groups where the Finnish language is spoken. But it will require more resources once again, and I would have liked to ask the Minister: it has been anticipated, and it will be taken into account alongside these cuts. Then, as another question or perhaps as a suggestion: When we talk about excellence, it is of course important to keep in mind that everyone is involved. The Minister also raised the issue of a youth guarantee, which is really great. I would think that through digitalisation we could also make better use of all the data we collect from children and young people in schools. We have great international examples of how, through this better use of data, those risk factors are also much earlier observed when someone is slipping on the page or not, and at the same time, individual learning paths can be built that generate the excellence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u107	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the need to strengthen the link between education and work, and that is true. But in terms of its project, I understand that this social support for self-employed vocational training is being pushed down. This means that people will receive EUR 705 of basic support, in addition to what the social partners bring to it through their own contributions. This means in practice that in this kind of self-employed vocational training opportunities really shrink significantly, and it eliminates its good thing, which is such as preventive change security, when people naturally can work and study through strengthening their professional skills. Why are we going to drive down such a model that has been built to make a truly significant contribution to people who want to develop and prepare for a new profession? Secondly, during the last term of government, we had good results from a programme of skills for young adults, which meant that when there were 100,000 young adults who lack secondary education,... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President :Thank you, I have to stop. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u110	Mr. Speaker! Finally, I would like to underline the challenge that has perhaps not been brought to light in this debate, that working life is changing at a tremendous pace and also puts enormous pressure on the reform and reform of education, so that the Pisa results can still be met in ten years' time. We've got top-notch teachers. A large proportion of teachers should put a red carpet under their feet every day as they walk to work. Oh, my God, that's amazing!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u111	Mr President! A few weeks ago, during Question Time, we discussed the effects of the proposed labour market reform on gender equality. It was then that these assessments were promised, they were not received, and now they seem to be coming a little later. But the question is: Now that the government is making exceptionally large cuts, reforms, reforms, have you thought about making a genuine assessment of the impact of children on these legislative proposals and budget changes? Is the government going to do these? In my opinion, this is an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u112	Mr President! The basis for all learning success is in early childhood education. There is no doubt that Finnish day care is a social innovation that has guaranteed children equal rights to early childhood education and enabled parents of young children, especially women, to work. Subjective entitlement to day care, full-time entitlement to a day care place, was regulated during the 1990s, while the previous time was a difficult depression in Finland. What is the government doing now at such a difficult time? You limit the right to day care, the right to early education from all families to 20 hours in principle — from all families to 20 hours in principle, with the exception of full-time day care. I'm afraid you're making a historic mistake, a big leap back in time. Among other things, the OECD considers day care to be a public good which is a profitable investment in society — a profitable investment in society. Good Government, Minister for Education
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u113	Mr President! This is where Mr Tanus and Mr Toivola asked questions about integration. When it is my responsibility, I will answer that the government has, of course, already anticipated these things. So we are already wondering whether, in the context of the registration of these people, this idea came from the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities today, we could already think about this inventory of skills. At the same time, this language training is a very important issue. In other words, things would already be done in advance when people are registered, a survey of what they know, what their background is, would diversify this. I have at least been given the impression that there is no such system, and I think this would be a good idea, because this would speed up this process. It would be useful both for these immigrants and for us taxpayers to get the process as fast and as good as possible. So we're thinking about these things in advance. And of course, because we know that the pressure is enormous and the resources are limited, we certainly need to act smartly. I hope this will shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u114	Minister Vehviläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u115	Mr President! First of all, this network of universities. The government has made no new policy. We consider it important that we have a regionally comprehensive network of higher education institutions. But then it makes sense, as was the case here in Tampere, that universities also look for their own co-operation models and also, in terms of content, develop and apply for this own profile. This is where Mr Andersson said about this reform that it is being done in schools. Schools do, and the reform of pedagogy is, of course, a matter for teachers. But it is a matter for policy and for us, for everyone in this Chamber, that we are looking for those reform instruments through structural reform or even reform of the apprenticeship in the direction of the education agreement. Then came this baby impact assessment. As is well known, we intend to set up this impact assessment body, which sounds bureaucratic but means that it will be better able to assess the impact of government proposals. I've been very emphasizing it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u116	Mr President! Representative Tuppurainen was concerned about limiting the right to day care. We have a legal definition of how many hours a student at school should have at least a week of instruction, and for first graders, it is about 20 hours. Why would a 2-year-old not have about 20 hours a week of high-quality early childhood education? This is a question of whether, if one or both parents are at home, only these children will be restricted to this day care right. And in these cases, it is now possible to spend more quality time with parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u117	Mr President! I am appalled at the power and rage the government is attacking early education. By cutting out early childhood education, the problems are transferred only to school classes to be resolved. This is where Mr Puumala hoped that the figures would not be discussed. I am not talking about them, therefore, but about the memorandum drawn up by the Ministry of Education, which is hard to read about the effects of these savings. Direct quote: "The proposal would reduce staff's possibilities for meeting, observing, observing and supporting development and learning in accordance with the needs of each child's individual and group of children. These factors affect the cognitive, social and emotional development of the child and thus the subsequent success of school." Government, please wake up. Is this what our kids deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u118	Mr President! One more comment to the Minister: Of course, politicians set the priorities for education policy, but it is educational professionals who do the pedagogical work, and they are also responsible for this reform of pedagogy, which has been mentioned a great deal. The problem is, therefore, this huge imbalance between these cuts in basic funding and this small development money. At the same time, the conditions for educational pedagogical work in general in Finland at all levels of education will be weakened and a small amount will be allocated to small development projects decided in advance. It does not create any real conditions, a real basis, a reform of pedagogy or education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u119	Mr. Speaker! From that speech by Mr Andersson, it is good that we are concerned about precisely what is the level of competence of teachers now and then in the future. It is precisely for this reason that the government is adding to teacher training, is reforming it comprehensively. And then there will also be a special investment in this digital learning, digitalisation, because here we are, in particular, on the trail. We visited the Estonian side, among other things, with the Committee on Culture, Education and the Media, and they are considerably longer, in this small nation. It is precisely through these structural changes that we are trying to ensure that we do not have to go into this fall in skills, which is what the opposition is talking about mistakenly, but that education should now be geared to the fact that we serve the labour market best and that we can get young people to work more quickly, that they are more prepared to work. This is also what employers are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u120	Mr President! Congressman Huhtamäki wondered how much for a little schoolboy. Mr President! This weakening of the level of early childhood education is, in my view, the most fundamental, the most tragic thing in this reform that is now being done with regard to education, that is to say, cutting. The limitation of day care, the scrapping of subjective day care rights — these are fundamentals that have provided parents with security and support for reconciling work and family life. Young families do temporary work, unemployment and work alternate, and it is difficult to narrow down
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u121	Mr President! Apprenticeship training is an important issue. For many, apprenticeships are much better suited than the normal formula: go to school and learn there. However, there are difficulties in apprenticeship training. Companies are not always involved in it in Finland, and also, in the case of vocational schools and universities of applied sciences, companies should be more involved in this cooperation. My question is: what is the government going to do to improve this sector further? And then I would also like to ask you about this model of apprenticeship training when it comes to the model of apprenticeships and apprenticeships: what is the difference? On this subject in Estonia, I would say that when the Committee on Education was actually there, they too had taken note of the importance of an hour of exercise in school. I would also like to thank you very much, as Mrs Wallinheim did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u122	Mr President! Yes, it must be said that our opposition has remained in place in a light, perhaps strong, way, that these alternative points of view do not appear at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u123	Representative Lauslahti, teachers teach in vocational schools, for example, and now the government is firing nearly 4,000 teachers at vocational schools. You talk about the development of education and training, but what are you cutting from? You undermine the right of children to take part in education and training, which are the most vulnerable in this society. You limit the right of children to early childhood education and day care, both of whom are unemployed. Day care and early childhood education are the right of the child, not the right of the parent. Secondly, you are taking money out of basic education from those schools whose parents have the most unemployed, those receiving income support and those whose children have the most clients in child protection. Is this not the dismantling of equality in basic education, equality in education, not development, but development?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u124	President! According to the study, the benefits of early childhood education can be achieved within a shorter period of time, as is the case in the 20 hours now presented. However, I do not deny that the savings in education and especially these savings in early childhood education are one of the most difficult things in this parliamentary term. This is, however, about the fact that we will continue to be able to afford the cornerstones of our education system, namely free education from comprehensive school to university and the right to early education for all children. I would also like to comment here on some of the points made by Mr Kiuru on structural reforms, the extension of working careers. That is exactly what we are trying to do in addition to these reforms. There is no need to hide them, cuts are also weakening, but at the same time attempts are being made to find reforms. One of these reforms, which warms myself in particular, is investing in increasing physical activity. If the implementation succeeds so that a more mobile everyday life remains a permanent activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u125	Mr President! When Mrs Lauslahti here wonders why less resources are used in vocational education in relation to education than in upper secondary school education, it is worth going to see that vocational education. There's a lot more expensive equipment in there that's needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u130	Mr President! I agree with Mr Filatov that there are a lot of special equipment there that may be very expensive. That is precisely why it is a criterion which requires that this activity should be as centralised as possible, not fragmented across the whole of Finland. This is the only way we can get the equipment to the best possible use and possibly even better equipment for students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u131	Mr President! In addition to direct cuts, the government plans to make savings also by reducing the number of master's degrees by 20% in universities. Yesterday I met my own province, Varsinais-Suomi, university staff, and they were even more concerned about this cut in master's degrees than about cutting their budget. Mr President! The world is not becoming simpler but is becoming more complex, and this increasingly complex world needs even deeper and more extensive knowledge. Finland can only manage with a high level of pioneering expertise. How has the government of value thought that we Finns will manage in this more complex world by reducing the level of education? Of course, the qualifications required for certain tasks can be considered downwards, but these qualifications and levels of master's training should not be confused or reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u132	Mr. Speaker! Of that Master's degree, when it has given rise to a lot of debate, it may be worth saying that the idea here is a more European mindset, in which, in accordance with the Bologna process, a candidature can get into work and get incentives there as quickly as possible, when we know what the challenge is. And I believe, we are sure that a significant part will return at a later stage of working life to get that section of the Master's degree, which I am sure will be very useful in the future. But even with a candied degree, we need to get to work much easier and faster in the future. I believe it is very important in this changing world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u133	Mr President! I have always greatly appreciated Mr Puumala as a civilist, and we worked particularly well together when we were together on the mid-term issue of training cuts in the last period — which are now going to be subject to double cuts. But now I am amazed that you say that it is a good thing that only a candidacy is first done. Finnish society, Finland, has done well in the world because we have been a highly educated people. We are not going to succeed by reducing our level of education, but by having highly educated people who are able to make innovations, product development, products that are sold. And I am afraid that if we take the line, as the large European countries do, that we regard as an undergraduate a candied degree, then it is precisely the competitive powers with which we have ascended as a nation that we will lose. Congressman Puumala, I want you to think very carefully about this again. The advantage of the whole of Finland, a Finnish society, is to complete a higher university degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u134	Mr President! Mr Filatov's little point is not to discuss what was cut and cut more during the last parliamentary term, but, in fact, this debate is about what the savings will be achieved by government reforms and how much the Social Democrats would have cut during this parliamentary term if they had been in the government, and that is what Mr Grahn-Laasonen told us about. Mr President! This intermediate issue is not credible. This is not credible because the opposition has this option to cut 270 million from secondary education alone and over it the money for innovation. This creates a situation that is not credible. I would ask the Minister for Education: if these cuts, which are planned by the Social Democrats and the opposition as a whole, were to be carried out much harder than the government is now making savings with these reforms, what would be the condition of our education system?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u135	In this debate, I will give a few speeches, three speeches, and then a two-minute speech to the Minister. And when it appears that the first signatory wishes to speak first, I will admit it to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u136	Mr President! In fact, I will take up this speech by Mr Turuse when you said that the question of the interim is not credible. Are you guys serious? However, when you were listening to this debate, what is happening in early childhood education, comprehensive school, universities and universities of applied sciences, vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u137	Thank you. — Mr Nylander, followed by a final speech in this debate to Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u138	Mr President! Mr Lauslahti's speech has now confused this issue, and I think it would be good to know what the principles are that guide this structural reform of vocational education and training. Where a representative: Lauslahti said in some way that, yes, these vocational institutions, when they are located throughout the country of Finland — yes, certainly, because there the young people are, along the country of Finland — cannot that be what these structural reforms mean? They don't mean focusing on those schools, do they? It can't just mean that, can it? It's not a renewal, is it? If this is the intention of the government, then I am really disappointed, and even more disappointed by not going through the good structural reform that was planned in the previous period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u139	The last speech of this debate, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, is two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u140	Mr President! Thank you very much for the many contributions that have been made in this Chamber. To this very last point, the reform of secondary vocational education. One of its important objectives is to ensure access to education, that all of us children and young people have access to secondary education in the future. But its essential point is to reform the whole of it, the structures, the duplication of activities, the dismantling of barriers between young people and adult education, because we do not have a separate labour market for young people and adults either. Increasing workplace learning, flexible ways of doing things in the workplace by learning, because it also has good experiences internationally that it works. The organiser structure will also be developed, but in cooperation with the field. And what is absolutely important is that we are able to increase efficiency, precisely by cutting back on the walls and the extra administrative costs and duplication of effort, in order to ensure that future skills are met and that our children and young people — or, in this case, young people and also adults — are trained. It came to the point that you said that you had developed apprenticeships last season, but the situation remains that only 10% of apprentices are young people. So that learning in the workplace has not really become a form of training for young people. This is what we want to draw attention to by dismantling the administrative and cost burden on employers and creating new models for a wide range of qualifications so that they have more and more workplace learning, but also a new model of a training contract. There were legitimate questions about the training of immigrants. Minister Lindström answered questions about this integration. Immigrant and asylum seeker children and young people have the right to education — primary school, pre-school education, early childhood education — and it is important that municipalities are able to organise this education for them very quickly. Of course, the State is directly involved in these costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u141	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u142	Mr President! The impression that the leading government party here somehow turned its coat after last summer's education debate is certainly not true, even though there has been a strong attempt to raise this image in today's debates. At the time, we were specifically opposed to the law on the abolition of authorisations to organise, which would have left a really big question about who and where in Finland the permits to organise would have been issued. It would have been threatening from the point of view of equality in education once and for all, and I still agree exactly with this debate at the time of the beginning of the year. Mr President! It is, of course, regrettable that the government programme also had to make savings in the education sector of this magnitude. However, it is good to recall the savings that were in place as a starting point for the government negotiations. Now, however, these cuts are significantly smaller — as we have recalled. It is often useless to remember old people, but it is nice this time, however, that more is now being invested in structural reforms and that is done in such a way that the cut amounts are also last year or the smaller ones that have been presented during the last government term. In this context, it should also be borne in mind that the government also invests in the reform of education. With regard to the entire administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture, we must also welcome the fact that culture is not directly cut off. Many cuts are made in structural changes, not in absolute cuts. From this point of view, cuts are not automatically weakening, although we are often inclined to think. The Ministry of Education and the whole government has rightly reiterated the need to figure out how to get more with less money. I hope that political guidance in this reform work will be used above all to ensure that, even after structural reforms, regional equality in education and training has been secured. The second principle is that education can continue to be a means of preventing the exclusion of young people. I also think that liberal education and, for example, folk high schools play an important role in this. Fortunately, this is not the time to cut off from free civilised work; we have now also been able to identify its need in the future, and not from exercise and culture — they will be left undisturbed. I hope that the opposition will also appreciate these value choices. The reform of Finnish education must start with the reform of these learning processes. Knowledge and technology are constantly changing. Therefore, all education and training must place greater emphasis on the ability to apply knowledge and on learning and adopting skills. The government will respond to this need for reform by supporting digital leaps and continuing training for teachers, for example. There has also been a great deal of praise for the exercise and for the increase in it today. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to youth unemployment. After all, the government's objective is quite right that at the end of this period the number of young people not in education and employment has decreased and that the number of young people leaving education has fallen. The youth guarantee of the previous government was an excellent idea and goal, and the model could have been of good regional value for a while. But the Youth Guarantee as a whole has not worked, because there are more and more young people out of work. So now we should try something new.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u145	Madam President! Today we are discussing an important issue. We answer the question of the future of Finnish education. As stated in the intermediate question, Finnish education, research and knowledge have been the basis of the Finnish recipe for success. In recent years, Finnish well-being and the high level of competence on which it is based have been challenged in an unprecedented way. Despite considerable efforts, the learning outcomes of young people have deteriorated. The adult level of competence of Finns is not sufficient to enable those who are unemployed in one career to find a new career quickly. Demand for higher education and knowledge is growing worldwide. At the same time, young people and adults need new skills to cope with the job. It is clear that Finland's future well-being depends on how well we dare to reform the content and structures of education. This is what the government has promised to do in its programme and key projects. Mr President! The Government’s starting points for achieving the goal that it has set itself are challenging. The foundation of our well-being society is crumbling in the economy for seven years in a row. The competitiveness of Finnish work and competence in the world is weak and unemployment is rising. This year, the general government deficit is still EUR 5 billion, even though public finances were adjusted by around EUR 6 billion during the previous parliamentary term. It is true that fiscal consolidation measures for the education sector are significant. At the same time, however, the government wants to achieve more with less. It is essential to invest in a new way of teaching rather than structures. The funding of key projects targeted at education is now making substantial investments in further and continuing training for teachers, digital skills for schoolchildren, pedagogical renewal and digital applications. The key factor behind learning results is also to enjoy school, which the government also invests more money in. We are now increasing physical activity to children's school day, bringing art and culture closer to learning, and using technology to create new impetus, motivation, joy of learning and opportunities for individual growth for young people. Mr President! The reforms promised by the government are not limited to primary school. In the development of early childhood education, the Government also reserves EUR 7 million in additional funding. In addition, during this parliamentary term, the government will increase the training of kindergarten teachers in order to secure qualified staff. On the vocational education side, the reform may be the biggest. The savings in this sector are large, but by reforming funding bases, operating structures and cooperation, savings can be achieved without reducing the quality of teaching. Vocational education also takes steps towards a model of training agreements familiar to Germany. In this respect, the main starting point for qualifications is competence-based. In other words, those studying in the profession will be able to catch up more quickly with working life. At the same time, cooperation between vocational education and training institutions and businesses will be intensified. The situation of universities, polytechnics and research institutes in these cuts is the most challenging. Hopefully, on the other hand, scarce resources will also lead to a clearer division of labour between universities and universities. I believe that the creation of centres of expertise that rely on their own strengths and the development of new forms of R & D funding to support commercialisation, including in the field of higher education, will survive these difficult times. It is also important for universities and research institutes to invest more in exporting Finnish expertise to the world. It would raise the level of Finnish science and offer new funding and cooperation channels for Finnish excellence in the future. Mr President! With these accompanying words, I support the Government in reforming Finnish education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u146	Mr President! The basis for knowledge and later learning outcomes will be created in early childhood education. The Finnish child care model has been an example of social innovation, which has promoted equal rights for children in early childhood education and access to employment for women. Children's subjective right to day care was laid down in the middle of the previous difficult recession in 1996 under the leadership of the Social Democrats, saving other public spending. But what is the present government doing in a similar difficult economic situation? The Government proposes that subjective day care rights be limited in principle from all families to 20 hours. So, indeed, in the past, the day care law has been 40 hours for everyone, but now the government intends to limit subjective day care to 20 hours in principle. With exceptions, full-time day care may be granted. I regard this government proposal as an historic mistake and a huge step backwards. Subjective access to day care and quality early childhood education are important for children and important for equality. It is also an internationally recognised Finnish model that supports economic growth by enabling parents of young children, especially women, to work. In the long term, it is also a prerequisite for a good and balanced demographic development. The certainty of safe and high-quality day care means that families do not have to postpone having children against their will. The OECD has compared the Nordic countries to countries where child care has not been organised and has concluded that saving from day care is a waste of resources. Investment in early childhood education is an investment in profitable public goods. Mr President! In addition to limiting children's subjective day care rights and increasing group sizes, the government is making unpredictable major cuts in education — not just cuts, but a conscious choice to reduce the level of education by proposing 20% reductions in the target number of master's degrees. In other words, once a target has been set for raising the level of competence — that future generations should be more educated — the aim now is to reduce higher education and the number of people with higher education. Finland would no longer even try to lead the world's most skilled educated countries. The funding of universities of applied sciences and universities will be cut in a way that cannot be without affecting the performance of their basic tasks. It is important that economic policy is comprehensive and that the balancing of the economy is made a factor in economic growth supported. The focus will be on Finland’s high level of education, research and knowledge. They are the foundations of our competitiveness and are a basis for economic growth. In order to survive in an increasingly demanding and challenging global economy, Finland must invest in research and development and ensure a high level of education and competence. An integrated learning path must be created from early childhood education to basic education, from then on to secondary education and from then on to higher education. Comprehensive school must be developed by elections, because the basis for educational equality is in comprehensive school — that local school is always of high quality. The production structure has changed globally so that Finland needs to look for new innovations, new solutions, and focus on high skills. This will put Finland back on the road to growth. I hope that the government will take this into account in its economic guidelines and invest in education and research. Mr President! We all understand that the state of the Finnish economy is serious and that the situation must be reacted to, but balancing must be done wisely, with an overall picture in mind. For the growth of the Finnish economy, it is important that the measures are not short-sighted but are carried out over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u147	In the meantime, Minister Vehviläinen has a short 1-minute answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u148	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about this subjective day care right, and I understand that it shares a lot of opinions, there are different starting points. But then it occurred to me that what do the people think of it, and I quickly dug up this during Mr Tuppurainen's speech, that in June a survey of this was conducted by the Economic Survey, involving more than 1000 people. According to that survey, 88 per cent of Finns were very much or somewhat in favour of the government's plan to limit the right to day care. In other words, on this point I would like to say to Mrs Tuppurainen that this
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u149	That is a comment, Mr Filatov, on the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u150	Mr President! Surely this is the case that when people are asked there are answers in this direction. But the people do not necessarily know the reality of other families who need that day care when one of the parents is at home. We know that people are in very fragmented short-term employment relationships, and this reform leads to the fact that the children of the unemployed or the children of the temporary worker are also vulnerable to temporary employment. After all, the law would guarantee — or the plans — that we are in the same unit, as it were, but that does not mean that we are going to the same day-care centre, but that within the same unit, the same administrative unit, we may have to deal with completely new adults and with entirely new groups of children. Another problem is that we have a lot of postpartum depression, for example. I wonder how those mothers and fathers can cope with the difficult situation of going through the bureaucratic mill with which to get a day care place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u151	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u152	Mr President! The government's education policy has been highly criticised, from all sides of society. Economic experts say that Sipilä's government is endangering Finland's ability to grow again. Right now, when there is no interest in Finnish products abroad, we need new know-how and export products. Right now, we should invest in research, because the euro invested in research produces multiple benefits in terms of economic growth and jobs. But the Sipilä government does exactly the opposite. Every euro cut from higher education reduces the economy and jobs by EUR 6. Poverty researchers criticize the drastic cuts in day care and basic education for driving Finland back into a class society where uneducated and poverty are once again inherited. Finland has been a country in which everyone, regardless of their family's wealth, has been entitled to equal education from early childhood education to higher education. The Sipilä government is destroying the principle of equality. Training experts point out that saving education has long-term effects. We cannot lose one generation without paying the bill in several generations as an increase in exclusion, mental health problems, unemployment. Education cuts are reflected in the long future. The government has made a value selection when it has decided to cut out of education. It is not a matter of necessity or necessity. Although you in the government claim that there is no alternative to these savings, there is. It's a stupid thing to talk about when you don't have an alternative. When you cut off education and equality, you make an ideological choice. You want to deepen inequality and destroy equality. Training cuts must be cancelled and, instead, subsidies that are harmful to the environment reduced. It is not necessary to cut training. It is still possible to correct the course and make decisions that will deliver the same savings but in a sustainable way for the future. Instead of cutting off education, it is worth cutting back on environmentally harmful subsidies, as the Greens have suggested. Environmentally harmful measures are currently being supported by around EUR 3 to 4 billion, with the same magnitude as training cuts. For example, it would be quite possible for next year's training cuts to be completely cancelled by two measures alone: the abolition of overcompensation for kilometric compensation and the moderate reduction in commuting. It's a choice of values. The Greens want to support education, growth, knowledge and culture. We have a solution that not only implements this, but also is environmentally and climate-friendly. The government's plans to limit early childhood education and day care make it particularly difficult for children of the least educated families. The restrictions planned by the Board of Directors on day care mean that employees are more part-time. Even now, low-skilled day care staff are experiencing increasing difficulties in their livelihoods. How do you recruit skilled staff to day care centres when you no longer get along with your salary? Part-time work increases the inequality of children as the right of children to quality day care and early childhood education depends on the position of parents in the labour market. The children of the small-time workers are in an even worse position. The most dramatic cut in basic education is definitely the end of the group size money. The direct impact of the surgery will be to reduce 900 teachers and feed their students into existing groups. The actual impact will be many times greater, as the group size money has served as an incentive for municipalities to invest in the quality of basic education and to keep the group sizes in line with the recommended size. The Government cuts the appropriation for improving equality in basic education by one quarter, although the grounds for equality money during high unemployment are stronger than before. The equality grant has been granted to those schools in which unemployment and the need for child protection are highest. In total, the cuts in vocational education correspond to the annual salary of nearly 4,000 teachers of vocational subjects. The result is a reduction in starting places for vocational education and training, which means that more and more young people will be excluded from education. Government cuts to higher education institutions are so large that teachers and researchers have to be laid off in all universities. [President MariaLohela : Now in time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u155	Madam President! When you listened to Minister Grahn-Laasonen's response to the intermission question, you felt very relieved: now there is no surgery, now you are just developing, so there is no problem on the education side. Of course, you get a different picture when you look at the numbers. I remember very well last season when, together with the centre, we raised the issue of cuts in education. It has been criticised here that we are talking about cumulative figures, but it was precisely in the middle of this issue that the Centre wanted to see a cumulative reduction of EUR 1.7 billion. That was too much, and therefore, when I myself am the party chairman, I remember well the electoral debates in which the chairman of every parliamentary party said that education has already been cut too much, education must no longer be cut off — everyone said so. I understand that compromises are being made in the government, everyone has to give up something, but I wonder who the government compromised with when every government party before the elections said that education has already been cut too much. And what do we do now? Over the next four years, the 1.7 billion cuts, all of which will remain in force and which, during the last period, are criticised by both the centre and the Finns of Peru, will be reduced by EUR 3000 million. This doesn't make any sense. Mr President! The Mobility School project has been raised here. It is a good project, and it must be commended to the government and to the Minister when there is a place of thanks: it is a good thing to bring it to all schools. But it is completely out of the question of training cuts. The Mobility School project was one of the leading projects when I was Minister of Culture and Sport. I tripled over the three years when I was Minister, from EUR 1.3 million to EUR 4.5 million in project funding, and I am pleased that this project will continue. But, Mr President, in this debate we are talking specifically about cuts to day care, early childhood education, primary school, secondary vocational and upper secondary schools and higher education. Here the representative of downtown Honkonen and representative Katainen have argued that the previous government made larger cuts than this government. However, in our joint interim issue, it was said that 1.7 billion were the cumulative cuts in the last government, and now there will be 3,000 million more! I think it would be honest to admit that promises were taken, principles were sold and double cuts were still made over the old ones. Mr President! Other areas have been dealt with very carefully here, and I will not go into them any further, but very little attention has been paid to the cuts to study aid in the debate. Last season, I was the minister responsible for study aid. One of the key achievements was that student support was linked to the index. It has been driven for a long time, and it was a very important decision that student aid does not fall behind every year. The full index came for six months, after which the government cut half the index, and now the index is not frozen but completely removed. So the student allowance will be left behind every single year after the cost. But this alone is not enough, and the government programme includes a reduction of EUR 75 million in student aid. In today's interview with West Media, at least in Turku Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, says that the cut will be 150 million. According to the Government Programme, 15 per cent of the study grant for low-income people will be cut, and 25 per cent will be cut from the study grant. The purpose of student grant and student allowance would be to ensure that the studies run quickly, the student grant should be able to get along. This means that it really does not get along. Seventy euros are being cut out of the student grant of just over 300 euros. Pensioners and unemployed people are being cut, but in fact no one is as violent as students,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u156	Madam President! Cutting off education is an unfortunate decision. The SDP would have been prepared to cut at least the same amount of secondary education as the government. One of the leading projects of this government is to make Finland the top country in education. It also means anticipating future skills. The initial and continuing training of teachers will be reformed. In order to stimulate new learning, each teacher is offered the opportunity to develop his/her own skills from his/her own baseline. Education must be of high quality and really now offer the tools that those teachers need in the field. If teacher training is successful, learning is also successful. We're a little behind in Pisa now. The learning environments are invested in. For children to really benefit from digital learning environments, they must be rich in content, high quality and interesting. The aim is now to mobilise the potential of digitalisation. Even small things have meaning. I like to get a picture of my child’s latest art work — almost in real time — on my cell phone, for example. The appropriation for language teaching will be used to launch a regional experiment on learning a foreign language in the first grade and will enable a regional experiment to replace another domestic language. It is very important that we open up to the world and offer the opportunity for a more freer choice of languages. Mr President! Growth in education exports will be invested, barriers removed from all levels of education and tuition fees introduced for students from outside the EU and the EEA. Now, in Finland, universities have the opportunity to export education because they are also willing to pay for high-quality education elsewhere — and the University of Helsinki ranks among the top 100 universities in this world. Every young person is priceless, no young person is extra. The Youth Guarantee should be developed. The Youth Guarantee will be developed into a model in which the responsibility of the young person in need of support rests with one body. The existing one-stop-shop service points are being developed and expanded. Looking for youth work will be strengthened by developing a credit-based human activity model. Youth social and health services and mental health services will be strengthened and rehabilitation facilities guaranteed. Madam President! As a diamond in the skills needs of future working life, social competence, community competence, relevance competence and technology know-how shine. Minister of Economic Affairs Olli Rehn has also stated that Tekes' financial instruments will be reformed to support the commercialisation of research and knowledge. It does not make sense that we have raw wood here, we sell it to Denmark, they turn it into furniture and we buy it back. I am in favour of cooperation, a good thing, but now it is time to learn how to market, sell and do more. Finland has huge potential for new business opportunities. Education cuts do not bring down Finland’s competitiveness, but non-renewal falls.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u157	Madam President! In this long afternoon’s debate, Mr Gustafsson painted such dramatic threats that for a while I doubted whether education in this country would stop altogether. Fortunately, however, you brought realism to the game when you were concerned about the sleep of mountain counselors and argued that the government did not hear, did not understand. Wrong. This government is concerned about the future of children and young people and about equality in education in exactly the same way as previous governments were. Reform and reform are necessary when one cannot fail to do so. However, it does not remove the fact that these surgeries are bad. They're bad for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u160	Mr President! In controlling debt, a distinction must be made between investment debt and eating debt. These oversized cuts in education threaten to create a situation in which they do not produce savings but eat up our growth potential. In this debate on the mid-term issue there has been concern that we are leaving too much debt to future generations, and that concern is justifiable. But this will inevitably happen if we eat the food for growth. There is a risk that government cuts will create a sustainability gap in this country. It is a much worse troll than the money debt and the sustainability gap we are used to talking about here. It is precisely training that is worth investing in, because investment in education has a good return. According to the OECD, the euro invested in early childhood education produces itself seven times as much as it does, and other investments in education also provide the same figures. The share of education expenditure, which is good 12 per cent of all public expenditure in Finland, is below the OECD average, but our results are better than average. So we are already reasonably effective. This does not mean that we should not strive for a more efficient system. The Finnish education system is based on public funding more than anywhere else. That is why public funding is of great importance, starting with ensuring the quality of early childhood education up to the highest level of research and product development. We know in this Chamber that the social exclusion of young people is humanly and economically costly. The first silent signals of exclusion are often noticed in early childhood education. But will they be noticed in the future? The big goal of the government is to encourage people to work. If one adult in early childhood education is responsible for a group of up to 30 children, it is no longer possible to talk about education, but our good day care, our good early childhood education, will become a preservation — no matter how well and cordially professional staff do their work. This certainly makes many parents wonder if a child can no longer be put in a day - care home with a good conscience. I think it would be a good idea for Prime Minister Soin not to put children in day care anymore, but to take care of them at home. But I think that our labour market will not be able to cope with this, and the Minister, for example, understands this very well. The work of a top-ranking global company is more efficient and secure if he knows that his own children are in good and high-quality care, but the forward-looking factor will increase if the government cuts take place. We are used to saying in Finland that a skilled Finland is doing well, our success has been built on the competitive benefits of a high level of education. But the situation is changing, and the educational structure of Finns is seriously deteriorating in relation to our rival countries. The educational level of the working-age population has risen at a rate of 15 years. Historical development is now moving in its direction, even though knowledge is required more than ever. If the number of tertiary graduates remained at the current level, the number of working-age people with tertiary qualifications in 15 years will increase by less than 100,000, compared with an increase of some 250,000 over the last 15 years. But even with this 100,000 increase, the government is cutting, and it seems funny because the whole developed world is currently competing for what high-skilled and highly productive jobs are located in. Over the last 25 years, employment has increased especially among highly educated people. The fact that there are also academically educated people who are now unemployed does not prove that there should be a drastic reduction in education levels, but that more jobs are needed. The problem with the employment rate is that the ability of secondary vocational education and training to employ has been weakened. It is, of course, better than having no education at all. But even this trend is not changed by major cuts in vocational education and training. The Government has chosen a new path for Finland. Increased knowledge, research
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u161	Mr President! We have already heard many good reasons why savings in education are a bad idea and why they are not worthwhile. In this speech, I thought about focusing on a few options. Some see it as an alternative not to do all the economic adjustment, i.e. to continue indebtedness at the current pace. There are so many problems with this option that I will not really spend any more time on it now. I disagree with the amount and pace of government savings, but I agree with the basic effort to contain the current debt. Almost all parties feel the same way, and so do the majority of Finns. If we accept the fact that public finances are being adjusted, someone will also pay for it. Someone's taxes are growing, their income is dwindling, or their services are weakening. It would be great if we did not have to do this, but a responsible politician does not raise his hands in the face of unpleasant alternatives, but is looking for an option that is least bad. One better option would be to cut so-called environmentally harmful subsidies. If we cut them enough, we could avoid all the savings in education — more of this in our future alternative budget. Even now, however, it is good to be honest: it is not a free lunch. In practice, our proposal to cut subsidies would mean that the most mobile Finns, especially those who work, would pay more taxes. The operation should be done in such a way that it is focused on cities where, on average, there is at least some sensible alternative to the car. It is a sad thing to go to the driver's purse, but I believe that the majority of Finns could accept that motorists pay a little more if it means that our children and young people receive good education and we have enough teachers. Even the majority of motorists, most of whom are Finns, may accept the proposal — at least as a lesser evil. Another option would be a moderate increase in the taxation of large capital income. That way we could cancel the education savings for a couple of years, at least to start the first year now. The sad thing is that it would reduce incentives to invest in business. However, for employment, we would need more businesses and more investment. However, would Finns themselves, who receive a lot of capital income, be prepared to accept small increases in taxes if this meant that the money goes to education and research? Would they see benefits in terms of the growth conditions both of their own children and of their own businesses? The third option would be to increase VAT. It would increase the price of products. VAT is also paid by low-income earners, which could be compensated for. Instead, we could not avoid a slight reduction in the purchasing power of middle and high incomes at this point. This would reduce domestic demand and contribute to the threat to employment. These reasons make it very difficult to increase VAT. I do not consider it a priority option, but it would be clearly less a bad option than the training cuts that have now been proposed. One option that has recently been put forward would be to tackle the black economy. I welcome the rejection of the shadow economy, but the expectations of fast, gigantic profits with caution. It should be our priority to act. The grey nature of the grey economy means that it is only worthwhile to celebrate the results afterwards. There are many other options, such as cutting the interest rate reduction on private doctors' Kela benefits, business subsidies, rotational leave or mortgage loans. There are some drawbacks to all of these proposals. So we have options, but none of them are problem-free, not pain-free, not easy. However, it is not possible to justify the savings in education on the grounds that there are criticisms of the alternatives as well. Surgery should be justified by the fact that, on some grounds, it is the least poor choice. I personally consider most of the options I have listed here to be more bearable than what we are doing for Finnish education. Mr President! Finally, I am particularly concerned that, although the savings in education are already heavy, their total horror is only evident with a delay. People are becoming marginalised and the growth base of the economy is weakening. In fact, in some of the options, the situation would be different. They may now hurt hard, but in the long term they could even improve the functioning of our society. That is why I would now choose the medicines that may be bad taste but help cure the disease itself. That is why I would choose an alternative to the savings in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u162	Värderade Talman! Visst är vi ett underligt folk. Ju sämre det går, desto mer vill vi piska oss, det är i vår folksjäl. Men är det vägen till framgång? Vilken är Finlands kkonkurrensfördel? Varför skulle ett utländskt företag cereal kompa till Finland för att etablera sitt kontor? De lockas inte hit för att vår budget visor ett 500 million euro mindre underskott än föregående år eller för att man kan köpa en tysk bil lite billigare änåret innan. Företagen kommer hit för att man har tillgång till världens bästa arbetskraft. Det är en kukurrensfördel. Den kan vi inte förlora.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u163	Madam President! As has been repeated many times in the Chamber, cuts in education are no one’s favorite measure. If only we could avoid any change that would sting, it would be easy to build a budget. In this very difficult economic situation, in which the Finnish economy is shrinking and measures to boost cost competitiveness and export demand are only in the implementation phase, we do not have the opportunity to exclude the second largest administrative sector in society from adjustment. We need to get the phenomenal pace of debt-taking on a sustainable path so that we can continue to make our own decisions. Is cutting education, then, a choice of values? It is no more so for the current government than for the government of the last period, which cut EUR 1.3 billion from education. Compared to the cuts proposed by Sipilä's government, this more than double cut amount does not even include the second-degree cut-off package and the study aid reform that the previous government fell on the end of its rocky road. Now that everyone, or at least the majority of those in this Chamber who bear the responsibility of government, knows that cuts cannot be left undone, I hope that a constructive debate will be held on the targeting of cuts and reforms. Mr President! Finland is a successful educational country because our education is equal and accessible across our country. These are values that the Sipilä government does not want to compromise, even though the pressure of surgery forces difficult choices to be made. I am glad that even in difficult times, the funding of liberal education is the same and the ideal of lifelong learning remains strong in our society. I think it is a very important signal that both young people and adults can develop themselves in educational institutions for liberal education without having to pursue qualifications and professional objectives, on a voluntary basis. Our lives and our daily lives cry out for community and human values. The activities of folk high schools, adult education centres, sports colleges and summer universities are therefore invaluable. I am also very pleased that the high school network, which has already been organised quite effectively, is not being cut. Persons aged 16 to 18 must still be able to attend school safely from their childhood home. The location of upper secondary schools is of great importance to both families and localities in a broader sense. Mr President! Whether you need surgery or not, education and learning methods should be updated in the 2010s. Today, for example, source criticism, the application of information, self-management of working time, security of performance and digital solutions have a very different meaning in working life than in the 1990s. The Government invests EUR 300 million in key projects in education and training to reform education and learning environments. Bringing technology better into basic education is also strongly involved. The take-up of digital materials and experiments on digital learning will be stepped up with a significant contribution. At the same time, a teacher training development programme will be implemented. I also think it is very important that the Mobility School project, the idea of which is to have an hour of exercise in school day, should be extended to nationality on the basis of good experience. As international studies show, increasing physical activity has reduced bullying in schools, increased working together and improved learning outcomes. With an encouraging lifestyle, we can also reach out to children and young people in schools who have not received a model or encouragement for daily exercise. The Mobility School project is also an excellent example of how little money can accomplish much. From the national economy’s point of view, increasing mobility is not a trivial matter either, as mobility accounts for up to EUR 2 billion of annual health care expenditure in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u164	Mr President! At the outset, I would like to thank Mrs Parviainen for the much thought and analysis and also the alternatives from the representative of the opposition party. Has this EUR 100 billion Finnish debt been incurred in less than four months? No, it's not. The opposition parties have been in the grip of power, especially the Social Democrats as long as I remember, quite rarely in the opposition. But who remembers the old ones, with a stick in the eye — now we are in this situation. Education cuts have been difficult decisions for the government and the Finns. The opposition’s speeches can easily give the impression that nothing good will happen in Finnish education during the next Government term. I know that no one in this Chamber, neither ministers nor representatives, wants or aims to weaken the education system. First of all, however, I would like to mention the extension of the Mobility School project to a national level in relation to these positive government proposals. EUR 21 million has been earmarked for enlargement. Mobility has been shown to improve learning ability, health and social well-being. Especially in the teens, the exercise of Finnish youths is decreasing. Consequently: The extension of the mobility school project to secondary level, vocational institutions and upper secondary schools can be expected to have long-term positive effects on the learning ability and well-being of pupils. When you've been so old, I can take an example from the old one again: I graduated from the nursing school, and I remember that we had exercise at the time, that is, it was part of the study program, we even ran the Cooper test. The Government has set aside a total of EUR 300 million for key projects in education and skills. I believe that this is a great effort in the face of a very difficult economic situation. I particularly welcome the Government's plans to improve the accessibility of art and culture by EUR 10 million. This key project concerns children and young people in particular, whose creative sectors are to be promoted. Creative sectors are a fast-growing and employment-rich sector in Europe and increasingly also in Finland. In the future, creative industries are expected to create new types of jobs and skills. It is important that Finland is involved in this development. In addition, training exports will be promoted through the dismantling of legal barriers. There is now a serious attempt to make Finnish education an export product. In particular, exporting excellent teacher education and teaching models abroad can bring fame and export income to Finland. At the same time, there will be an increase in the number of teachers in continuing and continuing training, and the number of kindergarten teachers in training will be increased. Mr President! The Government seeks to widen the bottleneck between knowledge and innovation. Although the total funding in higher education institutions is shrinking, targeting measures can contribute to the effectiveness of research and the creation of new structures. The need for reform has also been recognised in higher education institutions. The Government has set aside EUR 159 million for cooperation between universities and industry in order to commercialise innovation — a significant contribution, in my view, too. Finally: Apprenticeship training must be further developed. It should be noted that this is a good and more suitable option for many people when studying for a profession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u165	Mr President! Youth unemployment in our country is rising in a threatening manner and the youth guarantee envisaged by the previous government has not been implemented as expected. If in a few years' time we still have enough people to work, we need to eradicate youth unemployment, prevent exclusion and help young people better in education and employment. Vocational education is one way to prevent exclusion, but the current training model is not suitable for all young people. The percentage of interruptions in vocational education and training is now too high and does not meet the needs of working life adequately. We must now find ways of achieving better results. The implementation of education needs to be improved in order to make it more appropriate, practical and, most importantly, to ensure that young people are placed in the labour market. This is also expected from students and the vocational training field. Vocational education and training should focus on providing young people with good working life skills. However, employers feel that this is where the main shortcomings lie. Many graduates often have to retrain in practice when entering the labour market and teach for too long the company’s working practices and techniques used there. At the moment, professional, up-to-date basic skills are too much at the feet of theoretical studies. Mr President! The opposition is concerned about how vocational training will be carried out and the quality of vocational training and the guarantee for young people will be secured if the training is cut off. It is true that there are going to be cuts, but we are also alone investing 300 million in the development of education. In any case, the measures proposed by the government to rationalise training must be taken, and the precise funding to implement the change is essential here. As an alternative to better results, I propose making the apprenticeship system more flexible. At the moment, apprenticeships are seen more as adult education, but I think that they should definitely be seen as an equal alternative to traditional learning. Under the current system, the bureaucracy caused by apprenticeship training is too demanding for an entrepreneur and hiring a student is so expensive and time-consuming that entrepreneurs are unable to offer apprenticeships. That is why I support the introduction of a training agreement. This is where the employer specifically educates the young person in the profession. This model would be in the interests of both young people and employers and would free up resources for vocational training and reduce costs. The student would still be enrolled in the school in the same way as the student of the traditional model but would receive basic vocational education in the work. In a training contract, a young person, a business/employer and an educational institution would conclude a joint agreement in which everyone has a responsibility: an employer for the creation of skills, guidance at an educational institution, evaluation and self-learning. Instead of salary, the student would receive student support and incentive money from the company, which would increase as the student's knowledge and skills increase and the real contribution to the company grows. The model would best support the employment of young people and be flexible for businesses and employers. Our future experts and employers need help to find each other, and this help must now be provided. Madam Speaker! I would also like to say that it is particularly good to hear that research and innovation are becoming more effective as small and medium-sized enterprises also have closer cooperation with universities and research institutes. Now research activities, which have received a great deal of funding in Finland, have not supported product development and Finland's exports and job creation sufficiently. It would therefore be good to hear from the Minister whether this activity is to be promoted by the research notes received by businesses, which have been warmly greeted as a proposal, particularly from small entrepreneurs and universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u166	Mr President! As we have heard on many occasions today in the mid-term debate, these cuts in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture are from the recordings of the new government programme from the most difficult point of view. But savings will have to be made, even if no one likes to do them, and so things will have to be done in a new way. At the same time, our education needs renewal. Global competition is becoming increasingly intense, the world is changing, and that means that education must also be renewed and cannot be done in the same way as always. The scarcity of resources is, of course, painful, annoying, but at the same time it forces us to think about how to get more out of less. Now that cuts are seen as a threat to our education, at the same time the threat of continuing training in the same way as always must be recognised. In the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, we have talked a lot about the impact of these cuts and tried to commit ourselves to the minimum impact of these reforms on the quality of education and training. During the last term of government, hundreds of millions of euros were also cut under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Education, particularly in terms of education, and even then these cuts in the government programme were one of the biggest. The 2011-2015 Government Programme also focused on developing education, in particular through various project funding for teaching and club activities. However, these project funding was not a guarantee of equality in basic education. Hundreds of different projects even confused the field of education, and no one seemed to have the picture properly. At the same time, the project money focused particularly on those municipalities that had the skills to apply for this project money and which already had such plans to use this money. In his capacity as Minister of Education, Mr Gustafsson publicly promised to raise the level of education so that Finland is the top country in education in 2020. However, this goal was not achieved during the SDP-led ministries. There were not enough measures to develop education, education and education, and the government is now continuing this work under the leadership of the National Minister for Education and Culture. The Government Programme sets out the objective that Finland is the leading country in education, competence and modern learning. But this requires far - reaching decision - making. There must be permanent changes in the structures. We want to reform the way things work, because reform will not only succeed by postponing the various project funds to the educational field. We're at a crossroads. All evaluations measuring learning outcomes Pisa, too, tells us that students’ skills and attitudes toward learning are deteriorating. Of course, learning results in themselves are not a measure of happiness. The transformation of learning and the information society is so great that it can rightly be asked whether these assessments of learning outcomes are still measuring the right things. Education, learning and the teaching environment are changing. What should be left of school today so that the time spent at school can be proved effective? There is cause for concern about the current state of education, and that is precisely why this government, under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, is investing in new learning environments, the digitalisation of teaching and the continuing training of teachers through key projects. Mr President! New ways of doing and modernising education are now at the centre of the Government Programme. It means structural and operational reforms. There will also be money, as the government will invest EUR 300 million in these key training projects. Through major projects, education supports development, which should have been done a long time ago. The broad field of education and training has been listened to in the preparation of key education projects. The Government Programme focuses on actions consistent with the objectives set: inclusion, long-term development and continuity to improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u167	Madam President! Children's subjective day care right has been a fundamental pillar of the Finnish welfare society. It is very important for the child and also for the family. It has made it possible for parents, in practice young women, to participate in the labour market even after the birth of a family. On a global and also European scale, Finland has been a pioneer in female employment. For children, early childhood education is equally important. Numerous studies indicate that quality early childhood education helps and supports the development of the child by supporting, among other things, the social and learning of the child. The child will also be supported if he or she needs special support, for example, in the development of speech or in understanding different things. The aim is to provide comprehensive support for the child in the areas that he or she needs in support of his or her own development and learning. Studies show that children from disadvantaged families who come from poor families benefit particularly from good early childhood education, whose family situation is more difficult: parents are unemployed, or there is a disease in the family, there are different social problems in the family, such as problems with substance abuse and mental health or relationships. Early childhood education has been able to help children in these situations and thus improve equal opportunities for all children to start school. Day care also reduces the need for other services and prevents the need for child welfare. For a child with an immigrant background, the day care centre is a place where you do things together with other children. This will help to learn social communication, learn the language and thus equip you with the necessary skills for comprehensive school. Integration in the new home country will thus be easier, and in the long term this will also reduce exclusion. In addition, the government is removing the money for reducing the group sizes of school classes from basic education. This has mainly supported disadvantaged children and young people. It is not very difficult to predict that municipalities will save in this parliamentary term precisely by increasing the group sizes of basic education. This, in turn, leads to greater inequality, reduced learning outcomes and once again increased stress for both children and teachers. I fear that, in the long term, these measures will be a big bill for us to pay — not to mention how these will affect the individual child and the young. It can be said that cuts in early childhood education and basic education will increase inequalities between children and young people, which will also have a bearing on their future. Mr President! Finland is a small country that has been able to cope above all with quality education and the high level of knowledge it brings. Investing in education and training played a key role in how we got out of the recession of the 1990s. Therefore, it is particularly difficult to understand why the government has taken higher education and research and development funding in its objectives. The Sipilä Government considers that there are too many Masters, too many research, too many development in Finland. The Government does not appreciate the basic work and teaching of universities or basic research. This is inevitably an interpretation of the decisions taken by the government to cut education, education and research. Savings cannot be made without cuts in staff costs, which account for around 60% to 70% of the current costs of higher education institutions. This is also the body that performs these tasks at the university. In a number of areas, the Confederation of Finnish Industries has been awakened to wonder how Finland will develop innovative products in the future that will bring the country's exports up again if the foundations of universities and universities of applied sciences are broken. A year ago, Lappeenranta University of Technology was ranked among the world’s top 300 universities. This thesis is looking for new solutions to the bio- and circular economy and sustainable business in close business cooperation. Not like this, says the government. The university has just announced cooperation negotiations aimed at reducing 130 people, as cuts in the Ministry of Education and Culture and other sources of funding account for an estimated 10% of the university's budget. It is necessary to question the motives of the Sipilä government when training and skills are cut and wages reduced by force. Finland is heading for low-skilled, low-wage Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u168	Madam President! There have been quite a number of calls here during this debate for us to be ready for reforms now. In particular, when it comes to early childhood education, I would perhaps like everyone to remember at this point that we were reforming our legislation on early childhood education during the last period — a huge reform work was carried out. The aim of this reform was precisely to improve the quality of early childhood education, to increase the equality of good early childhood education in Finland, and now these cuts, which are targeted at early childhood education, undermine this reform work. In other words, we call things by their real names: it is not about reform, it is about quality reduction, and it is about cuts. The minister spoke here earlier rather beautifully about the skills of the professionals in this country who care for our children and teach them the important skills that are needed in life. However, when I have spoken to kindergarten teachers and nannies in recent weeks, the message is the same from all of them: they feel that their work has never been appreciated in this country as little as it is appreciated right now. And no wonder, in the last few days everything has come to the fore: they want to reduce the number of kindergarten workers, they want to increase the size of kindergarten groups, they want to cut the salaries of these people, they want to shorten their holidays, they want to move early childhood education professionals from caring for our children to run the increased heavy administration that these legal reforms bring with them. The professionals in the field, the experts will knock these reforms out. Let's talk about reducing the quality of early childhood education. Last night both Helsinki and Turku have said that the municipalities cannot support this, and the reasons for this are quite clear: this will discriminate against children, this will undermine the quality of early childhood education, and this will increase the bureaucracy of the municipalities. The kindergarten and preschool professionals are just the people who have created a safe place for my children where they can grow up together with friends and surrounded by safe adults. Thanks to these people, day-care centres are not just children's containers. They're places where children learn. They're places where kids get experiences. They are places where children make new friends and a safe social environment. When you do, you get in your lap. When you feel bad, there's someone who listens. And these are just the people who also allow us, young women, to make a career, even if we are mothers. Mr President! Now, however, the government is making our day-care centres exactly the kind of containers that have been successfully rejected in Finland. This reform seems so absurd at the moment that it was difficult for me to understand this until I actually listened to Minister Soin's speech today, and there was quite clearly the idea between the lines behind this reform. The limitation of children's day care rights seems to be based more on the ideal of a housewife society and the idea that the place for both children and women is at home. And when you look at this through this ideology, at that point these presentations begin to make some sense. And at the same time that the government is always talking to us about standards, we are building a completely absurd new Byroslavia in day care. For example, in Helsinki we have 23,000 children in day care, and now we should suddenly begin to monitor the employment of these children's parents, which has not been done in the past. We need an absolutely massive machine between all these different authorities to monitor who is working, who is not working, when we have previously focused on caring for and raising children. I personally believe that it is quite absurd for me to create such a heavy and costly regime for ideological reasons alone, while at the same time discriminating against children: to remove early childhood education professionals from raising our children to run our papers. Mr President! I fully agree that Finland needs growth, and the Finns are certainly ready for painful decisions. There is a spirit in Finland, people are willing to do things if they are promised, their children are promised a better future and if they see that all this is worth it. Unfortunately, now the government is not promising us anything like this. Instead, the government weakens the care given to the children, the government deprives Finns of the belief that their children are facing something better. With these presentations
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u169	Mr President! The Government Programme has started to reform education by seeking solutions to the challenges ahead by developing activities. By developing the education system, educational institutions will be able to operate cost-effectively and meet the challenges of future working life. Well-designed and managed digitalisation will provide more flexibility in education when students are able to complete a suitable part of their studies regardless of time and place. Today, digital learning environments are already widely used and their role in education will be expanded. In the context of the expansion of activities, it is good to work together with different educational institutions, so that best practices in different fields can be collected as a functional whole. Cooperation can also take place between different levels of education in the relevant fields of education, thus mutually reinforcing the strengths of different levels of education. This will also give educational institutions the opportunity to cooperate more closely with industry. This makes it possible to build different simulator environments with companies. In this way, education in the sector will also have access to both business experience and an up-to-date learning environment. Cooperation between different levels is currently taking place in maritime education, for example, at the Aboa Mare Institute in Turku, where cooperation between upper secondary vocational education and polytechnics is very far-reaching. In Aboa Mare, simulator systems have been built together with business. Mr President! Training should be developed with time. The development work of the task must be planned, managed and timely, so that the level of education and competence in Finland will remain competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u170	Mr President! "Finland is the leading country in education, knowledge and modern learning" in its Government Programme. The same government plans to make direct cuts in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture of 641 million. The question arises as to how much words and actions can conflict. At least they can't be anything more than what the chairmen of the government parties had before and after the elections. Every president promised that education would no longer be cut off. Mr President! The government cuts apply to all levels of education and do a lot of damage. They mean larger groups in day-care centres and schools, less support and guidance for those in need, less practical education in vocational school, less contact teaching hours, more mass lectures, less time for student-specific guidance, the end of research. Reforms in education are needed, and there are good things in government projects. However, it is naive of the government to believe that the drastic cuts proposed would have no effect. Surgery makes normal activities in day-care centres and schools so difficult that additional reform projects do not warm up when the staff do not have enough time for the most important: the child and the young. A major concern is also the reduction of equality in education and training. High-quality free-of-charge education together with the syllabus has made it possible for us all to realise our abilities. The maid’s girl may have become a professor — where the professor’s son may have ended up as a cleaner. Regardless of home conditions, everyone has been able to train as far as they can. This is crumbling, the learning gap has grown. If you do not have the opportunity to help at home and you do not receive enough support at school, basic skills will remain incomplete. Indeed, studies show that more and more comprehensive school graduates cannot properly read and count. It is clear that, with poor literacy and arithmetic, progress on the educational path is a stumbling block and many young people are completely excluded. At a later stage, many training paths can fill economic barriers. Even now, student support does not want to allow full-time learning. As it continues to deteriorate, we lose many abilities if parents do not have the opportunity to support and it is impossible to work alongside studies. In particular, the situation of family students is very difficult. Mr President! High expertise has been the strength of our country. Finland’s success story of the post-war poor country as one of the richest countries in the world has been based on investing in education and research. This is the right idea for the government when, in a difficult economic situation, it wants to create new know-how and produce ideas through its leading projects. But a beautiful thought is not enough. With the Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions project, for example, the government promises to launch research and innovation activities in the bioeconomy, while drastic cuts in higher education and research, however, jeopardise these goals — the real trick. Mr President! Few members of the government party are able to defend the cuts in education. Instead, they run behind the "must" rhetoric. Good government, sometimes you have to, even if you don't want to, but not in this case. You don't have to cut out your education. It's your choice of values. It is a short-sighted, stupid choice that spoils the future of our children and our young people and makes the success of our country miserable, but it is not obligatory. It's your choice. Unlike the government, the Greens aim at the best education in the world. We do not want to cut out of education. Our choice is different. For example, by cutting the overcompensated part of the kilometric allowance and by reducing slightly the level of the commuting reduction, all the training cuts planned for next year's budget will be covered. Good government, there are alternatives. Use them. Do not cut out our children, our young people and the whole future of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u171	Madam President! There has been a debate in this Chamber today on the opposition's intermediate issue of training cuts. Education cuts are necessary, it dictates our financial situation. The number of euros is lower and therefore the number of euros needs to be reduced. The way in which government action will affect growth, equality and knowledge can be combated in many ways. The government has presented today reforms which have already been mentioned in the Government Programme. The most important of these are the development of content, the creation and support of digital learning environments. Distance learning becomes more and more important when education networks have also become smaller. The importance of digital learning environments will also increase with technological progress. The effects can also be mitigated by increasing the efficiency of education. At the moment, there is a situation in secondary vocational education where students have free working weeks, short days, sometimes only three or four hours, and in this case a situation arises that when there are few classes and a student has a long journey from home to a study place, the threshold is raised as to whether, for three or four hours, it is worth even going to school on that day. The previous government reduced the number of places of study for education providers, and in fact it already brought inequality to the opportunities for secondary education in sparsely populated rural areas. With regard to mitigating the impact of these reforms, it is also important to increase the focus on working life. We have many examples of the fact that, especially for boys, the learning of handicrafts has been more secondary, and it is therefore important that these handicrafts should be kept on the table. These technologies are also particularly important. With regard to working life, it is important to develop business cooperation and what Mr Gustafsson has pointed out here today that during his ministerial term he started to develop the 2+1 model system. It is very much to be welcomed, which means that two years is a more active study phase and the third stage is a training phase supported by the employer. I believe that this should be used even more effectively in vocational education and training in the future. Madam President! Somehow it has seemed that in many speeches there has been a desire to displace, in a way, parental responsibility for the child’s upbringing. It has been painted that now the restriction of subjective day care rights will crush the whole of early childhood education and the expansion of the group size of one child will put this whole system right on the run. I certainly do not believe that our early childhood education staff are at a level that would be affected in this way by the addition of one child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u174	Madam President! According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment, the State grants EUR 3 to 4 billion per year of environmentally harmful subsidies. The government is now prepared to pinch out of that amount 6%, EUR 180 million. The Greens believe that subsidies that are harmful to the environment could be reduced by EUR 600 million, corresponding to the government's savings in education. Although the government advertises that it invests EUR 300 million in education through key projects, cuts of EUR 300 million remain below the line. It is foggy to talk about investment in education and training if we first cut drastically and then invest a little. In the interests of honesty, the government should talk about net amounts. The Government’s line is reflected in training savings of EUR 210 million for 2016. The Greens recognise the need for adjustment, but cuts can be targeted differently. Instead of saving children's and young people's future and cutting our own skills, we are prepared to choose a smaller evil, that is, cut a small part of the overcompensation of the kilometric allowance and to reform the commuting cost reduction system. These decisions will enable us to avoid cuts in education and training for 2016. Training cuts in the coming years would be compensated for, among other things, by reducing the tax subsidy on diesel, by imposing a tax on waste incineration and by introducing a tax on soil and mining. You needed concrete presentations, alternatives. Here they come. I would like to stress that the use of my own car on duty must be compensated in accordance with fixed and variable costs. Calculatingly, after more than 15,000 km of work, all fixed and variable costs of the car will be paid, and after that all aid will be tax-free. The price tag for kilometer compensation for society is about EUR 170 million, and we propose a cut of approximately EUR 50 million. It's a relatively small sum compared to what's the other option. Contrary to what is often believed, the reduction in commuting costs is directed at growth centres in the region, where alternatives to using their own car are also more often available. Of the means of transport, the subsidy is directed in the profit side, 80 per cent of all euros, to private car use. The net impact of the reduction in commuting expenses on the tax revenues of the state and municipalities totals approximately EUR 630 million, of which we are prepared to reduce a quarter, EUR 160 million. As the current reduction favours private cars and more traffic, the structure of the aid must also be addressed in addition to a quarter of the level cut. We propose, with a longer period of time, a shift to a kilometre-based system in which the aid will be decoupled from the means of transport. A kilometer-based system can be implemented in zones where there is no alternative to using your own car — for example, on the island of Teuvon Viitasaari — the kilometer allowance is higher, and where there are alternatives to your own car, the kilometer allowance is lower. Madam President! The Minister of Education needed concrete proposals. I hope that we can still discuss these issues and that all these 600 million direct cuts can be replaced in a comprehensive way. I hope that you will welcome us and you will have some time to discuss it, because there is no obligation to do this. It is also concretely possible to do these things differently, and it is based on the presentation of the Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u175	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to the subject of this important interim issue, it must be said that, even as far as today's debate is concerned, one has to say that none of the parties in this Chamber are without sin. In other words, the present opposition parties have made significant cuts in education, as Mr Gustafsson, for example, has rightly said, and now, even during this government, cuts are being made. Of course, what is essential here is that we should be able to take this sector of education forward together overall. Personally, I strongly believe that these educational reform objectives of the government are right. We need to think about ways of achieving them all the time, but at the same time we also need to understand that these much-spoken structural reforms must also be carried out on the educational side, just as they should be on the social and health side. Projects such as the reform of vocational education, the digital leap in basic education or the development of a social guarantee for young people are based on the need for reform, which is constantly changing in our education system. Six different key projects in education will be speeded up with a significant one-off effort. Overall, EUR 300 million will now be spent on the reform of education through these key projects. So this sum is not intended to make up for the savings that will be made on account of the budgetary situation, but to sow the seed of better education for the future. A few comments on these various questions: Of course it has to be said that these cuts in education during the last and present term of government are extremely severe. In practice, for example, almost a quarter of the funding in the polytechnic sector has been lost and lost in a few years, and it is quite clear that these savings are not just in the walls. From the point of view of regional universities, the Government Programme's approach to increasing regional and sub-regional cooperation is a very good thing. Sub-criteria must in practice mean that, for example, in the event of a war, universities must be able to increase cooperation among themselves. Similarly, in the name of regional cooperation, educational institutions are obliged to increase cooperation with regional education, research and development organisations. This is an issue in which every province has an infinite amount of work to do. In this context, it should also be noted that the development of national well-being relies on the vitality of the regions, and therefore the structure of higher education in this country must also be very comprehensive geographically. In connection with the Debat, these foreign students were also raised here, we were talking about educational exports. Personally, I absolutely believe that we must allow our education providers to receive tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA countries. These must also be made possible for secondary schools, educational institutions, such as upper secondary schools. In addition to this, we should also take forward the so-called annual work-time experiment, which would work very well for many people, including upper secondary school, including that possible fourth year of study. I urge the Minister that the most important thing now is for these decisions to be taken and, in line with them, to proceed, that is to say, it is not possible to do anything about this now, but we must move forward. Now these training cuts are included in the Government Programme, but of course the models for their implementation are still unclear. A very large proportion of these cuts are particularly targeted at vocational education and training, and the problem is, of course, that the organisers are already planning programmes for the years 16 to 19 without knowing what is going on in those years — whether the unit prices or the number of places to start are being cut. Now, President, at the end of the day: In this context, one positive solution would be to make every effort to improve the pass rate of education, e.g. to improve the pass rate by 10 percentage points would have a significant impact on the number of starting points per age group. At the end of the day, I would like to ask the Minister: in what way have you thought about encouraging educational institutions to increase this degree of penetration?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u176	Mr President! I would like to comment at the beginning of this speech on the proposals made by Mrs Aalto. With this in mind, we can replace these cost savings now made with some other cost savings. These means put forward by Mr Aalto are means that do have an impact on the economy, but it could equally be said that these cost savings, which are at stake here, can also be cut out of development aid directly. But on the other hand, we don't have to do either, we don't have to do the Aalto show, and we don't have to cut development aid. I would like to say more about the fact that the reforms that are now being carried out will result in savings. Mr President! Finland is a world leader in education and competence, modern learning and research even today. Due to the economic situation in Finland, the government has had to assess the activities of early childhood education, basic education, vocational education and higher education and science in more detail than previous governments. Our country is in a very difficult economic situation and it is therefore also necessary to balance public finances by means of sensible solutions in the field of education policy. This is because Finland can continue to be a major power in learning and education, as there is a risk that skilled workers will not be able to meet our needs and our competitiveness. The weaknesses of the knowledge chain need to be addressed at all levels of education and in all forms of education, and the level of education of the population needs to be raised faster than the competing countries. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important to continue to pay particular attention to knowledge, education and research. Government plans to develop basic education have been criticised, among other things, for increasing group sizes. Group sizes are not, however, the key issue in guaranteeing the quality and effectiveness of teaching. On the other hand, ensuring the quality of education and learning requires us to be able to introduce new innovations in education, to reform learning environments and to digitise education. In one electoral period, however, schools and education are not fully digitised but can be started well. Digitalisation best supports the development of an equal learning environment in different areas of Finland, as it enables a high level of education and learning also in schools and educational institutions in remote areas. The measures planned by the government will narrow the differences between schools, regardless of the municipality in which the school is located. The Government has identified competence and education as one of the key projects. The time horizons of education are very long. This means that the content of the training supply must be targeted to the foreseeable needs of the international and national labour markets and must also make the necessary changes to the structure of the education system. Training must be able to respond more quickly to changes in the operating environment than the competing countries. Cooperation between companies and training will be highlighted in concrete terms in the implementation of the main project. At best, this cooperation produces new entrepreneurs and innovations and is the fastest way to react to changes in the operating environment. The government wants to modernise and strengthen secondary education, not by cutting EUR 270 million, as suggested by the SDP during the last parliamentary term, but by reforming it. Skilled, well-trained and skilled workers are always needed. The Government wants to rationalise the funding and structures of education by eliminating overlaps, barriers and bringing together education provision, funding and guidance as a coherent whole under the Ministry of Education and Culture. At the same time, the Government wants to encourage training providers to improve their efficiency. Workplace learning and the reform of the apprenticeship system have proved to be an excellent way for young people to gain a good job. The apprenticeship system will be developed by reducing the administrative burden and financial burden on the employer. The development of the system will facilitate the transition of young people to working life. The key to Finnish society and competitiveness is to ensure the operational opportunities of universities and universities of applied sciences and to develop their operations. In our country, we have a unique system of universities and universities of applied sciences that focuses on regional competitiveness and equality, which has guaranteed the development of our society throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u177	Mr President! "Creative destruction" is an element of economic theory, which refers to the restructuring of the industry, in which efficient organisations In the event of the collapse of old structures, new replacements will be created when structures are renewed, for example with new technologies and new operating models. Jobs are disappearing, but the losses are beginning to turn into new jobs in new areas. Creative destruction is said to even be a prerequisite for productivity growth. We Finns are now in this situation of creative destruction: globalisation, digitalisation and robotisation have changed the structure of working life and are still changing. The stone legs of Finnish exports, the forest, electronics and metal industry, apart from the chemical industry, have been in difficulty or even collapsed. In particular, high-processing exports have collapsed, old occupations are dying and new ones are being created. There may no longer be a demand for the profession that has been trained in due course. Technical progress threatens up to 36 per cent of occupations over the next two decades. A person may have to be trained in more than one profession during his life and change fields several times. Lifetime education has become a necessity. So in this situation of creative destruction, in which we are now living, it is not very wise for the government to save itself from education. High-quality education from early childhood education and primary education to upper secondary education and higher education, without forgetting adult education, creates the knowledge base from which Finland is pushing forward. Mr President! The Finnish education system is the most efficient in the world. Our effective education system is a combination of suitable wages, group sizes and good learning outcomes. Even now, education expenditure accounts for more than 12% of total public expenditure in Finland — this figure is from 2011 — below the OECD average. In view of the training cuts that have been made during the last government term, there is no longer any room for further cuts. Government cuts endanger Finland’s future and growth conditions because Finland can only do well with a high level of expertise, we can only do well by being a pioneer. It should be remembered that education is an investment and not an expense, it pays itself back many times over. Investment debt and eating debt should not be equated with each other. For example, early childhood education is so important for the future learning and development of children that according to the OECD, the investment in early childhood education in the euro will produce up to EUR 7 more later than any other education or training. The university euro, in turn, produces almost EUR 6 for the European economy. Why does the government want to save the future? The government's cuts to universities and universities of applied sciences are very damaging to Finnish pioneering expertise. These cuts undermine the ability of universities to provide high-quality education, reduce the level of competence and, above all, reduce resources from vital fundamental research, which will lead to the development of future innovations. In addition to direct cuts, the government plans to make savings by reducing the number of Master's degrees by 20% in universities. Yesterday I met my own county, Varsinais-Suomi, university staff. They were even more concerned about cutting the number of masters than about cutting the budget. The world is not becoming simpler. It is becoming more complicated. The increasingly complex world needs even deeper and wider knowledge. I am very surprised how the government of value has thought that we Finns can cope in a more complex world by lowering the level of education. The number of graduates should not be reduced. However, the qualifications required for certain tasks may be considered downwards, but these qualifications and levels of master's training should not be confused. Mr President! It is remarkable that the government calls for Finland to rise with innovations and at the same time cut off basic research and science. These cuts in the basic funding of universities and the competitive research funding of the Academy of Finland and Tekes threaten to kill the entire Finnish innovation ecosystem. Finland's export-driven growth-based future, which is the result of pioneering expertise, is at stake. Savings in vocational education are also very worrying. Already today, the number of hours of contact teaching is only over twenty weeks, that is, the same as that of comprehensive schoolchildren. For example, in Turku, from which I myself come, there are only about 26 hours of local education available to students in the profession, which is the same as in the 5th grade of comprehensive school. In a few years more than ten hours have come down from just over 30 hours. The savings in vocational education and training are particularly difficult because the money will be saved already in 2017, but the reform of vocational education and training, which will reform structures, finance and legislation, will only enter into force in 2018. The money will be taken first, and only in a year will there be instructions on how to do it. This is not the way to go. Speaking time does not now allow us to assess the savings in early childhood education or basic education, but I agree with the group's and the Socialist Group's comments on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u178	Madam President! It has been rather sad to follow this debate today. We have, as it were, given up and giving up, so that Finland is no longer a country of success. Somehow it seems that even this hall no longer believes that we can be the leader of education. The Government's way of promoting Finland's competitiveness starts at the wrong end. Behind the success story of Finnish society is the ability to create an intelligent society in which everyone is trained and as many people as possible have the potential to go far. With an equal education system and a high level of competence, our small country has been successful and has been one year ahead of the competition indicators. Government proposals do not increase competitiveness but, on the contrary, weaken it. During the last Government term, several studies on the state of comprehensive school and the development of Finnish skills were completed. They showed worrying trends: the inheritance of education is increasing, the learning outcomes of children from weaker conditions are falling rapidly, and the level of competence of Finns is deteriorating compared to key competitors. This information has certainly also been known to the government. Much has been said here about early childhood education, and I agree with those who are concerned about our early childhood education. The cuts in early childhood education will go down in history. It has also been mentioned on several occasions how the contribution of the euro to early childhood education will save us EUR 7 in the future. For example, limiting the right to subjective day care is one fundamental part of our equal education system. Here more people have said that the one child now does not change any situation. Ask the people who work with these kids. They have exactly that one pair of hands, and it does affect the work they do and also the quality. Although the importance of early support and intervention is well known, the government's limitations are precisely driving away the right to day care from those children who also need it most, who need to be accompanied by pedagogical professionals and other children. Problems will also be repeated in primary school. I am an example of how a Finnish comprehensive school can support students who come from very difficult backgrounds, how different backgrounds are not an obstacle to building the future, but simply a challenge in which our professionals and professional teachers can help. Now the government is taking resources from this too by cutting group sizes and quality money, among other things. Studies show that, especially in immigrant-dominated schools, small groups are the best way to prevent exclusion. Today we have also been very concerned about this immigration and how we are dealing with immigrant children. For example, in Helsinki, where one in ten children need special support, there is a particular need for tools to eradicate inequalities and support pupils. The effect of the government's surgery is quite the opposite. Increasing the group size by one means reducing up to 300 teachers. All of this will be patched up by targeting a fraction of the cuts to promote digitalisation. Of course, these key projects are important from the government's side, and there is a lot of good there, but sometimes it seems that we are painting the wall of the house when, unfortunately, the whole house is being scrapped. The problems will also be repeated in higher education institutions. Surgery for starting positions, teaching and research will lead to opportunities for future growth. How can Finland’s high level of education and competence be secured if the growth of knowledge is stopped? Today we have also had a great deal of discussion about the difficult situation, the difficult economic situation and the need to take these painful decisions. But have we really forgotten about history in what way the future of Finns has been managed in the past in difficult economic times? We have just invested in education. I would like to remind you of this, and I hope that the government will not hide behind an alternative. A number of options have been put forward today. Why are you not prepared to seek solutions that will ensure education in the future and will not ruin Finland’s chances of success? You have that key in your hands right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u179	Mr President! High-quality comprehensive school is the cornerstone of the education system. According to international research results, learning results have also deteriorated and differences between schools are increasing. So the present process cannot continue, and this is exactly what the government has understood. Attitude has a lot to do with learning outcomes. If schooling is not motivated, learning results are not a big deal either. The development of basic education is one of the government’s training tips projects. In this speech, I would like to focus in particular on two key points to improve the enthusiasm of schoolchildren for learning: the digitisation of learning environments and the increase in physical activity in schools. Mr President! According to studies, Finland has fallen from top to middle in the use of information technology in schools over the past 15 years. For example, there are many primary schools in Finland where there is no computer education of any kind. Last year, there were on average three computers per 10 pupils in comprehensive schools in Finland. Young people of the so - called mobile generation do not automatically learn to write on a normal keyboard or use spreadsheet programs. The Government Programme promises to update learning methods and learning environments by introducing more technology in teaching. In fact, teaching methods need to be reformed to fit modern times. There are few jobs where you could do without any technology skills. The use of technology in teaching improves the working life skills of schoolchildren. Instead of memorized information, it is often more important to know where to find the necessary information. The key is also the source criticism, which is what information can be trusted. In addition, schooling will be fun when, for example, mathematics and languages can be practiced through various computer games. However, it is a misconception that learning will somehow become better only by using technology in schools. According to an OECD study, information technology can even be a distraction in the classroom and, of course, there is a risk that students will only do their job by copying answers from the Internet. In addition, it is particularly important to ensure equality in education: schools must provide all their pupils with the same equipment. Not all families can afford a child’s own smartphone, tablet or laptop. It should also be borne in mind that the long-term health effects of using mobile phones and computers have not yet been investigated. However, excessive use of digital devices already causes physical symptoms, such as headaches, in the short term. Children's and young people's screen time is already being called on to be limited when it is mainly about their leisure time. In addition to immediate health problems, the reason is that the time spent with a computer or tablet is usually sitting. Too much sitting is one of our major health risks for the future. Mr President! Another point I raised about the government's top education projects is that comprehensive school will continue to take place at least an hour a day. This key project has a positive impact on both public health and the economy. When healthy lifestyles are learned and become routine as a child, the positive effects are always reflected far into working life. Comprehensive school physical activity covering the entire age group also narrows well-being differences between population groups. Exercise must not be just a hobby of the wealthy. In practice, the increase in physical activity will take place, for example, through the extension of the Mobility School project to a national level and the extension of experiments to a secondary level. A mobile school means much more than adding one regular school exercise lesson to every day. The most innovative ideas of the project are related to functional education. I have a ninth-grader in the Parliament this week who gave a good example of functional teaching: Mother tongue class had taught subjugations with so-called comma drift. In commuter karate, each conjunction requiring a comma had its own movement, such as a deep squat that was always to be made after the teacher had said some submissive conjunction. Such kinesthetic learning improves students’ concentration and makes learning more fun. Mobile school methods could also be introduced in the workplace. It includes avoiding sitting, for example, by increasing breaks and short break exercise. You can also replace regular class education by going out for a walk under the teacher’s direction. For example, in Keitele’s nature Escar, preschoolers spend their days outdoors, exploring the wonders of the environment and performing tasks on nature’s own materials. Even the generation that grew up with smart devices is much more interested in things when the things learned are real and tangible. You also need to be encouraged to move outside of lessons. Mr President! Adding exercise to school day in different ways requires the input of teachers, but it is worth the effort. By bringing variety to school, exercise improves the focus and motivation of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u180	Madam President! It is pointless for the government to hide behind structural reforms in order to justify cuts; it should openly admit that it is carrying out drastic cuts in education that undermine the skills of our nation. In this situation, the Government should also suggest how the Finnish education system should cope with such drastic actions and how the education system can be further developed after this. The surgeries are fierce, and it really can be said now that we are cutting strongly from children, our civilisation and our future, as did economics Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz this week. In total, the government will cut nearly 3 billion from education. This represents up to 10% of the total budget. Recently, with cosmetic decisions, the government has sought to correct the decisions taken and has been acclaiming by adding EUR 300 million to the so-called top education projects. These government measures are like cutting €200 first from low-income pensioners through housing allowance and then giving a few tens of them a guarantee pension. This is unacceptable. I wonder how far the government is prepared to go in its surgery policy and differential cuts, how much the government thinks we can afford to cut off the low incomes and the skills of our nation. I think it is worth investing in education at all times. This is also clearly the case with the results of the research. Among other things, according to OECD statistics, the euro invested in education and training produces itself many times as much back. For example, the euro invested in early childhood education brings itself back seven times as much. In practice, it should be borne in mind that investment debt is quite different from eating debt. Reductions in education and training do not bring savings, but rather eat up the benefits of our economic growth. In Norway, for example, the strategic priorities of the state are being discussed because the state’s oil resources are not endless. They call their future strategy the so-called knowledge society. Education plays an important role in this. We should also see the information society as our strategic goal. In this context, investing in education and increasing education exports should be seen as a resource which would also enable us to make more chips available together. Now you can ask who would buy education in the future, which we do not have the common will to invest in. As stated, government policy does not support the raising of skills and does not take into account the opportunities offered by educational exports. For example, nearly 800 million will be cut from universities alone by 2019. These cuts are visible in the operations of the University of Helsinki, which means that up to 3,300 jobs will be lost. For example, in the new THL studies, up to 5,000 jobs may be lost in early childhood education. It is these people who bring the conditions for the future, growth, innovation and other possible new jobs. When Finland loses a lot of highly educated researchers, university teachers, it affects not only basic Finnish research but also areas of application, such as enabling new entrepreneurship and innovation. The cuts affect not only the quality of education, but also Finnish competence and the well-being of students and the speed of graduation, not to mention the impact it will have on the future work field and Finland of the future. I would ask the representatives of the government really to consider what kind of debt you really want to leave to future generations. I hope that Finland will continue to be a country in which everyone has the right to study and to live on an equal footing, regardless of their starting point. That is at least what I want to promote and defend with this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u181	Madam President! I am particularly pleased that students from outside the EU and the EEA are being charged tuition fees, at last and finally. The money saved remains at the disposal of educational institutions, so schools too have an interest in developing education. In a situation where education needs to be cut off, it is unacceptable to pay for free studies for the whole world. In addition, tuition fees are an effective way to eliminate those who come after a free degree. We have had no idea how much money to train foreigners who have come to Finland just because the Finnish taxpayer has paid for their studies. Let us hope that this absurdity will end once and for all, and let us hope that tuition fees will be set at a high enough level to match our high-quality education system. Offering free education to some 20,000 foreign students is a huge expense. The principals of universities also want tuition fees for foreign students. In Helsingin Sanomat 16. The article, published on May 1st, says: "There has long been a long-needed change in the law in colleges, which would allow tuition fees to be collected from foreign students. And the principals are happy that it finally seems to come true. A similar project has been prepared in the name of promoting education exports already in many governments, but it has always fallen down against opposition, especially from the Left Alliance and the Greens." Madam President! Green Ozan Yanar wrote in his New Finland blog last March with the title "Finland does not need tuition fees for foreign students". Unbelievable. Madam President! I am on the opposite lines with Mr Yanar. Finland definitely needs these payments, especially in this economic situation. In his text, Yanar explains the effects of the tuition trial at Aalto University. According to the analysis, "many of the students who did not get the scholarship to cover their studies failed to claim their place of study". "The rejection rate of studyplaces significantly increased in Does this not prove that it is the freedom of study that has been the attraction? Yanar continues: "We need to develop skills that others do not have and which are difficult to imitate. For example, there will be a demand for energy-efficient construction, new forms of energy and information society services in the world. Without high-level higher education, we cannot develop these things." I agree with that. I still do not know why we should offer hard-core education to those from across the world for free. In this economic situation, we must look to the interests of Finnish students and the interests of Finland, and the healing of the world that is of no benefit to anyone must be stopped. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u182	Madam President! I would focus on these actions by the government and respond to Mr Hakkarainen at the second session, which is why I think that tuition fees for students outside the EU and the EEA are not in my view worthwhile. Mr President! The government is cutting the education budget by EUR 3 billion during this parliamentary term. These massive cuts threaten to weaken our Finnish education system, thus affecting our future. We are well aware that Finland has risen due to its high level of education and expertise. Our companies have created high-quality services and products that have been able to compete on the world market. Much has been said in recent weeks about competitiveness factors. Our education system is the cornerstone of our successful society, and it is in fact the key to Finland's future economic growth. A large number of MPs took part in the economic defence course last month. There a fellow Member asked a good question: Did Nokia rise because of the low cost of work or because they had the best products? We all know that the answer is the latter. High-quality training, research and innovation are needed to find high-quality new export products. This is how Finland can rise. But what is the government doing? Exactly the opposite. Will Finland’s exports increase with the fall in knowledge? Will Finland be able to get its economy in order with a fall in knowledge? We know once again that the answer is 'no'. As I said earlier, these training cuts are extremely drastic. The University of Helsinki alone will have to reduce by a maximum of 1200 employees by 2020. It's a huge loophole for university expertise. This means that the need for reduction is about 15%. The talk that cuts would not jeopardise education or research, but that administration alone, is not true. Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen has spoken about, among other things, that we will continue to be one of the leading countries in education and that through reforms we will be able to safeguard the quality of education. In fact, the cuts not only affect administration and structures but also directly affect teaching. Jukka Kola, President of the University of Helsinki, has said, among other things, that there will be no significant savings without a reduction in personnel, because the staff costs are about two thirds. For example, space costs are only crumbs compared to that, about 13% of all expenditure. The Greens have put forward a clear alternative to these cuts. By cutting environmentally harmful subsidies alone, these cuts could be reversed. As has been said many times before, these cuts are value choices. These cuts in education are not left-wing, right-wing, either. For example, Etla's research director, Professor Mika Maliranta, has felt that the government is acting differently than the research data recommends. Criticism focuses on cuts in research and product development, education and day care. As Mr Gustafsson has pointed out on many occasions, the President of the EK, Matti Alahuhta, has expressed his concern about the cuts. He has said that the government should invest in education and research. The latest example is from Åbo Akademi Business Professor Alf Rehn. He warned that the deterioration of university education and the lack of postgraduate students and research funding will lead to Finland’s knowledge and expertise increasing from the Finnish swamp to which it is slowly sinking. Mr Rehn said that companies cutting from research and product development usually go bankrupt in a few years. In addition, companies that drowsy themselves with constant savings are left at the feet of more agile ones. Good government! It's time to pull the emergency brake. Do not make Finland a developing country of knowledge. This country will not rise by trampling on workers' rights, compromising educational equality and reducing skills, but by innovation, research and training of high-quality and competitive products on the world market and by investing in education and training. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u183	Madam President! Minister! I would now like to draw attention to one development project in the field of education. Much has already been said about these cuts, but I would like to know a little more about this, how the Minister has raised it. Last spring, the Minister of Education and Education announced that he would stop funding the popular LuluMat service. University of Jyväskylä and Niilo Mäki Läsmat, developed by the Institute for Schools, was a web-based learning environment that supports the teaching, learning and evaluation of basic reading and mathematics skills. Many students and parents are familiar with the service from the first-game math services. This is largely a question of children's equality in learning, as LukiMatia has been used especially by children who have difficulty reading and counting in learning. It is therefore incomprehensible that savings are being sought from the schooling of these most vulnerable children — and what savings are being made: the abolition of technical support for the service and user support will only bring savings of EUR 200,000. When you sum up the service to the benefit, it seems like you're making a fool's decision. Last year the training time spent on the first game was as much as 583,000 hours. Everyone may wonder how much special teacher hours would be needed to replace this very individual support. Mr President, Minister! Finland is such a small nation that we cannot afford to lose any children on the road of learning. Preventing falling from driving is much cheaper than tackling exclusion at a later stage. Without basic reading and math skills, I don't think you can handle everyday life. They are also the basis for other learning. These basic skills belong to everyone, including those children who find learning difficult. For children as a free service ReadMat has supported educational equality when all those who need the service have been able to use it regardless of their place of residence and the size of the family purse. There is consensus on the effectiveness and benefits of readingMatt. The same motivational and efficient service simply does not exist. Our future is based on learning, and decision-makers speak as one of the choirs of increasing the use of information technology in education and investing in digital learning environments. When lukiMatti’s funding ended at the end of June, the conflict of words and actions became concrete. Now we were going to drive down digitalisation. At the same time, too little resources are already being cut and special education is being undermined by the lack of qualified teachers. I hope that Juha Sipilä will also act accordingly in his digitalization speeches. The government must ensure that existing working systems are not driven down, but are further developed. Here we have a ready, well-known learning environment that students like and which teachers and parents applaud. So you shouldn't waste it for savings. Minister, the key objectives of the government are to promote digitalisation. I wonder how this fallout of LuluMatt's education system is in line with the goal of digitalization of the government and the cuts aimed at studying.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u184	Madam President! In political matters, it is always a matter of sensible compromises, a matter of agreement. The economic downturn in Finland has caused its own demands on the content of the Government Programme. According to the Government's economic programme, debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced by the end of the parliamentary term and the debt-to-debt ratio will cease in 2021. Every sector of society must therefore be cut off. On Monday I visited Kauniainen High School in history and social studies with high school students. I asked them what things they see in Finland especially as challenges. I received an answer: the economic downturn and the refugee situation. The current strategic government programme has clear objectives and the processes directed towards achieving these are effective. In order to make it easier for indebtedness and the pressure of these young people and children, who are heading for the future, to raise Finland up, we also have to make decisions in the flesh. No sector will be spared, as clichés and monotonous as it sounds. Madam President! In Finland, the level of education is high, as is technological competence. The longer-term goal of the Government continues to be to increase the level of knowledge and education of Finns, which supports the renewal of Finnish society and equal opportunities. The goal is also that Finland is a country in which you want to learn new things all the time. Finland is the leading country in education, competence and modern learning. The goal of the Government’s top project is to increase learning and individual study paths at the workplace. It is also the wish of many students. Students sincerely hope to learn in the field, need different and diverse training places. Madam President! An illustrative example is the introduction, in accordance with the Government Programme, of a new model of training agreements to promote practical learning. This will create a model for increasing learning in the workplace. In most cases, it is in practical working situations that it is easy to demonstrate knowledge and skills. While working in nursing, I have also been a student instructor. From experience, I can say that it is there that the best way to demonstrate the knowledge and skills of students and learn new ones is to do so in practical work situations. Learned and taught, sometimes even by the hand. It is also the very important forwarding of silent information. In the health care sector, the movement of quiet information has its place. We must do everything we can to maintain and guarantee good nursing skills and skills. The distribution of medicines, patient care and various treatments are best learned in practical studies, and nursing is a practical job. Madam President! In addition to developing the practical learning of professional studies, we must also take into account the working community in which the student is located. Support must be given to the ability of the student directors of the workplace and their important role is considerable. The student director is a lot of security. He has in his hands an uncut diamond that is polished in a practical field of learning. Perhaps for the best of all of us there is a student who is willing and willing to learn all possible know-how from the field of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u185	Mr President! Finland’s strength lies in education, high-quality knowledge and high-quality comprehensive school. It is therefore necessary to reform the content and structures of education. The key projects in government competence and education aim to create a permanent change in Finnish education. The Government will allocate a total of EUR 300 million to the implementation of six key projects for 2016-2018. Madam President! At present, every Finnish citizen's share of central government debt is nearly EUR 18,000. Needless to say, living as a debt has to stop. Savings are sought from each sector, without forgetting development. The link between the costs of education and the results of training is not clear. Surgery and increased competition in the world require strong structural and operational reform. Not everyone has to do everything. The Government’s leading projects aim to change the functioning of the higher education sector in a more appropriate direction by seeking synergies and eliminating overlaps. In Finland, there is still much to be done to improve the impact of university science and the commercialisation of research results. This untapped potential is best harnessed by changes in operating practices and operating culture. Mr President! The Finnish school world is one of the world's leading schools, but the perceptions and practices related to learning, teaching and the learning environment need to be updated. The government sees that learning must be made even more independent of time and place, just as it is from working life. The government’s top project is to make learning inspiring. The Government responds to the challenges of our society through comprehensive and effective measures. In the field of education and training policy, too, the means are diverse. The Government invests in new learning environments and digital materials. With these, Finland will become the leading country in modern and inspiring learning. Efforts are also made to make Finnish education an export product by deregulating regulations on it. Thus, the phenomenon of the norm has now been genuinely addressed in the field of education policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u186	Madam President! The text of the mid-term question claims that government action would undermine educational equality and increase regional inequalities. This is not exactly what is meant to be done. These cuts are not directly targeted at basic funding for education, but are mainly applied for through structural reforms. Universities are not forced to drive down the provinces through mergers. That is what Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said, and I will stand by that. It was different during the last government term, when universities of applied sciences, for example, were almost forced to merge. I am also pleased that the upper secondary school network is not subject to cutting pressure. Unfortunately, as has been said many times in the debate, education cannot escape cuts in this economic situation, as education expenditure accounts for well over 10% of total public expenditure. For vocational education and training, savings of EUR 190 million have been recorded in the Government Programme since 2017. However, from the second stage, the main opposition party, the SDP, would also have been prepared to cut, and even more, 270 million, at least according to their own memorandum of economic policy. The Government reform of secondary vocational education and training will increase cooperation between education providers and improve the efficiency of the training providers through administrative and financial reform. And the government's top project, the Norm Dismantling Talkot, also extends to education. In the context of the reform of secondary education legislation, barriers to co-operation such as second and third level will be removed. The aim is also to summarise studies and enable faster pass. It is important that the current cutting measures take account of regional equity. For example: In Lapland, previous cuts in vocational education and training have been very hard. The total number of starting places for vocational education and training will be reduced between 14 and 16 in Lapland at 865 starting places. The cutbacks in start-up places were distributed in different regions and to different training providers in very different ways. In Western Lapland, for example, approximately 14 per cent of the study places were cut from the Vocational College Lappia, and the student unit price of the education and the money for adult education have been cut. As a result, total direct and indirect cuts by 16 only rose to up to 20% for this individual training unit, so it seems to me that previous governments have also targeted quite extensive measures, unfortunately, including cuts from education and, above all, emphasised them on Northern and Eastern Finland. I think that if one fifth of all revenue flows are cut, it is a fatal cut for any operator. I therefore hope that the unit prices will no longer be cut, but that savings will be found in the development of the content of education. It must also be possible to distribute future austerity measures more evenly so that no more cuts are made for those who have already received the most. The government's key projects in education have been criticised in the debate for having invested EUR 300 million in them in a one-off manner, and their impact is very small compared to the cuts in the education sector. However, investments in key projects, digitalisation, have not been made to patch up cuts, but to create new ones. The world is changing so fast, and education must stay on the road. Digital learning, lifelong learning, entrepreneurship, coding, media literacy — here are just a few of the civic skills that these key projects want to strengthen. These are change money, not cutbacks. And when you want Finland to be the top country in education, In future, I would also like to see a constructive debate on education policy even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u187	Madam President, Minister! I will pick up where I left off in my previous speech because I think this is such an important issue. The key to Finnish society and competitiveness is to ensure the operational opportunities of universities and universities of applied sciences and to develop their operations. In our country, we have a unique system of universities and universities of applied sciences that focuses on regional competitiveness and equality, which has guaranteed the development of our society throughout Finland. A good example of the implementation of the previous objective would be the maintenance of teacher training at Savonlinna. There are no universities of poor quality or higher education institutions in Finland. In the current economic context, maintaining this system requires the profiling and division of labour of universities and research institutions, as well as the development of cooperation. Overlays should be eliminated, but at the same time the creation of new centres of excellence as international centres of excellence should be promoted. It is particularly important for our competitiveness to find effective ways of highlighting new inventions, innovations and applications. The effectiveness of research institutes and their commercial development potential will be increasingly taken into account in the direction of public research, development and innovation funding and in the incentives of research institutes and universities. At the same time, more pressure will be put on the development of cooperation. In addition to budget funding, universities and research institutes are also required to provide their own active funding. Madam President! The Finnish Government has taken seriously the social and international challenge of Finland's position and importance as one of the world's leading countries in terms of knowledge, education, education and research. It may also be that some difficult decisions are needed to achieve these objectives, but if they are to help achieve them, they must be made. High-quality education and a high level of competence is the best innovation policy that our country is moving forward with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u188	Madam President! Good Minister! As stated in the KD's group statement, we, as a KD group, were left out of the training gap, precisely because of the poor timing, although we share equally the concerns about plans to increase the size of the kindergartens and cut back on research appropriations, among other things. In the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties, it has been argued that previous governments have also been cut off, but I think that is a bad argument, because at some point that line will come up against it. And saving children's well-being is always a short-sighted policy. The Government proposes raising the group sizes of day care centres, which, from the child’s point of view, is that there is less and less personal time and care for the carer. The nurse, in turn, is becoming even more demanding in the midst of a competitive and symptomatic group of children. In addition, the limitation of the right to day care will bring to the groups more so-called half-children, who, while at the same time present, will be very whole and raise the size of the group more than allowed. Similarly, the group sizes of basic education are increasing, as the government cuts out the subsidies accumulated by municipalities from the decline in the age groups. Economic policy is also a choice of values, which is why the most perplexing cutting point for myself can be found in the training of young people with disabilities and young people with disabilities to prepare for independent life and secondary education. From the point of view of the national economy, these amounts are of no importance at all, but these young people and their families are concerned with the prohibition of equality of opportunity. The participation of people with disabilities in the labour market reduces pension and support expenditure and generates tax revenue, which means that it is in everyone's interest that disabled young people also find their way to work. Instead, I want to take an open mind, for example, on the reform of apprenticeships and even on the renovation of secondary vocational education. If these savings are actually sought through administrative and structural reform and the quality of teaching is not affected and the opportunities for further learning are guaranteed, more intensive career paths will be achieved at best. It is necessary to balance the economy, but at the top of the cutting list I would not be able to place myself in research, development and innovation. Even when the government's ambition is to bring Finland on the rise through innovations, these are the very activities that are seriously at odds with this objective. Tekes' savings also impact the operations of the state-owned Research Centre for Technology (VTT) in the form of reduced orders. When VTT reduced 323 people last year, were these reductions directed at the administration? Many messages indicate that research services were specifically deducted. The government explicitly stresses that in higher education institutions, the reduction in funding should not be directed towards activities which would mean a weakening of education and research, but, in particular, at administration. For example, when universities and universities of applied sciences have permanent spending savings of EUR 75 million and index savings of EUR 175 million by 2019, how can it be when the government has estimated that they will not affect the teaching or research staff? The Board of Directors of the University of Helsinki decided a week ago to start negotiations to reduce personnel by 1200 persons by 2020, and several negotiations have already been held at the University of Eastern Finland and Oulu and at Tampere and Lappeenranta Technical Universities. Does the government admit that it is impossible to make these staff reductions without reducing research and teaching staff and the administrative services that are absolutely necessary for them? Many Finnish successful companies have started or become viable through technological innovation in our innovation system, such as Nokia or St1. We need more of these, but they don't come for free. Knowledge and education systems are the cornerstones of this society, the Finnish knowledge society, which cannot really afford to be crushed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u189	Madam President! Less than a year ago, a study conducted jointly by Åbo Akademi and the policy researchers of the Tampere and Turku universities was published in connection with Swedish and Finnish Swedish. According to it, the attitude towards the compulsory learning of Swedish was clearly negative. Three-quarters of the population wanted to get rid of compulsory school Swedish. More than 60 percent felt that it would be more beneficial to study a language other than Swedish in schools. We Finns are in favour of the optional Swedish language and we intend to continue to promote it. Madam President! Forced Swedish causes the Finnish-speaking population to have a high linguistic load when compared with other European countries. Maintaining the whole Swedish-speaking illusion should cost another billion euros a year with all the expenses. For example, is it compulsory in Italy, even though more Italians are German-speaking than Finns are Swedish-speaking? With the change in the curriculum of comprehensive school, compulsory Swedish studies will soon begin in the sixth grade. The direction should be the opposite: get rid of the straitjacket. But the previous Minister of Education Kiuru drove through this project to advance the study of forced Swedish. Current fifth graders are the first age group to start Swedish in the sixth grade. How does education take place in remote areas? Are qualified teachers available? If so, do they want to do more classes and so on? Will schoolchildren be forced to transport from primary schools to secondary school, perhaps far away? If we do, how much does it cost? Or are teachers being transported back and forth? Mr Kiuru will probably be able to answer these questions. What work really needs Swedish, other than Sweden? The need is based on some fantasy world created by language policy. In the business world, discussions with Swedish partners are mostly in English. For example, we have a customer from Sweden, who is likely to speak Swedish, and we have a consultant who also speaks Swedish, but all discussions are held in English. Madam President! I am very pleased that the government is exploring the possibility of a regional language experiment, which will enable you to study another national language rather than another language. True Finns have long promoted the rationalization of language learning, and this is a good first step towards the full voluntaryity of Swedish language learning. The time spent studying Swedish could be used to study a more useful language, such as Russian, German or Spanish, and so on, on a voluntary basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u190	The next three speeches have been made, followed by a kind of summary by the Minister. - Now there's more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u191	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! In the run-up to the elections, candidates and parties will be approached if there is some desire for a variety of new investments in a number of important subjects during the next parliamentary term. Training organisations also did this, but with a different approach, which I personally at least liked. They did not demand anything more, but their message was that there should be no further cuts in education. The party leaders promised to commit themselves to this. I also remember very well in the same election events in Varsinais-Suomi my colleague Elomaa, the vice-chairman of the current Finnish Parliament Group, said: "You must not cut off education." These promises have now been quite grossly betrayed. Competence is the foundation on which Finland’s survival in the international market is ultimately based. That is why it is quite perverse that the conditions for growth are being further undermined, as it were, by the economic situation. Education cuts do not save money, but eat up the food for growth. What do we need now? We need to strengthen knowledge and not short-sighted cutting, which at its worst deprives us of the opportunity to succeed in the long future. The Social Democrats' option is to strengthen the skills of the entire population by guaranteeing at least a secondary degree for all and by speeding up access to higher education and its penetration. Everyone must have the opportunity to maintain and develop their skills and general education regardless of age, gender and wealth. We would stick to these values on which our successful education system is based. The government also wants to develop and reform the education system. All that's missing is the thought of what's the end of it. Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen has hoped that cuts could act as a force for change. Here too, I believe, the government's governance and disintegration policy must be stated. Over the decades, our education system has proved its worth. Against this background, it is quite extraordinary that it should be thrown into a scrap heap without even having anything better to offer at the end of the day. Mr President! There is only one explanation for all of this: the right-wing government of Sipilä wants to dismantle our welfare state in all possible ways under the pretext of the economic crisis. Here again, the government is pursuing a strict ideological policy regardless of the consequences. I personally feel that education and research are not an expense but an investment in the future. If the government carries out all its planned cuts, the least it can do is to carry out an independent evaluation of the effects of the cuts. Mr President! A direct quote from Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen before the election: "The coalition has made a choice. We do not want to cut out of education. In the coming parliamentary term, we need to invest in our children and young people and translate Finnish expertise into a new rise." I agree with that. But what is now coming, among other things, from the government? There will be oversized teaching groups, more unemployment, the successful continuation of the Youth Guarantee will almost be buried, the indexation of student aid will be abolished — not even temporarily — but power — and the cuts to higher education will be so great that they directly endanger 3300 jobs — not a small amount in relation to the amount of unemployment that we already have in our kingdom. I would not say — at this end, I could quote the words of a representative of a government party: how dare you? I'm afraid you have the nerve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u192	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here today on a very important issue. Certainly the cuts are not easy, they are done with blood, as I said in that speech. There was also talk here about this reduction in the subjective right to day care — it did not rise to the top of the list today. However, I personally welcome the fact that subjective day care is maintained insofar as it is possible to obtain it 20 hours a week even in a family where one of the parents is at home. As a mother of three children, I would feel that it is a very good number and it is enough. It will be either the morning or the afternoon when the child is in kindergarten, which will include activities and activities and lunches or dinner, whichever is the best in the family. So this too will certainly turn to the benefit of the child when we think that a home is a good place for the child to grow up and develop.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u193	Mr Louhelainen, then Mr Savio, and then we have Mr Grahn-Laasonen, and then there are a few more requests on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u194	Mr President! The Government’s key projects also aim to speed up the transition of young people to work, the transition of young people to further studies and the reconciliation of work and studies will be facilitated by flexible study paths. Speeding up the transition to work, e.g. by reducing the period of secondary education and raising the labour market value of a bachelor's degree, makes it possible to extend working life and reduce costs. Mr President! The training centre Salpaus is a good example of an innovative grip. In Päijät-Häme it serves young and adult students as well as working life. Here are a couple of examples: Salpaus students built a rally car and, together with various parties, training groups for first responders to motor sports events were organised. In turn, clothing students sew children's clothes to their Kyrgyzstan. Students have visited the relief activities of the Red Cross and have heard what children’s clothing to be sent to charity should be like. The clothes to be donated are made in teams of five, and after the clothing has been donated to the Red Cross and after the clothing has been passed on to the recipients, then eventually the students will be informed of Kyrgyzstan, where the children’s clothing has been most lacking. The cleaning service of the city of Heinola is an apprenticeship student for the first time. The training centre Salpaus signed a one-year apprenticeship contract with the city for an undergraduate degree in office services, real estate services. Is it not, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, that we need such innovation and new ways of doing things and doing things in order to strengthen the links between education and working life? Mr President! I am also very pleased that apprenticeships are being developed and that there is a desire to reduce the administrative, financial costs for employers. Master training is also a very important form of education and training at work. I was in Asikkala during the last term of the government to familiarize myself with the training. In race school, knowledge and quiet knowledge of old traditional working methods and materials are transferred from master to driver. This form of education brought young people who were already excluded back to work. Mr President! It is also important to develop a model of the Youth Guarantee that would best reach young people. In the context of the Community guarantee, responsibility would lie with one body. With joy, I also welcome the Government’s objectives to strengthen social and health services for young people, mental health services and to guarantee rehabilitation places. The Government wants to support the life management of young people, the construction of study paths, so that a place can also be found in working life. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, who has been a great participant in this important debate for more than six hours. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u195	Mr President, Minister! As many other representatives of the government parties have said today, it is by no means easy to implement the savings planned for education. High-quality knowledge and education have been the backbone of our international competitiveness for several decades. However, we are facing such a serious economic situation that the education sector cannot be left out of savings. There is now a need for structural reforms in Finland, which have not been done in good economic times. It is noteworthy that the new government has decided to implement significant reforms that will improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of education. A very significant change is the collection of tuition fees from students outside the EU and the EEA. The introduction of tuition fees will lead to more tax-paid education for Finnish students and hopefully also encourage universities and universities to improve their education quality and to increase the interest of foreign students. Tuition fees are used at a very large number of foreign universities hanging at the top of the ranking lists. I believe that their introduction in Finland is definitely a step in the right direction. Another important step forward relates to the experiment on the free choice of languages, which Mr Hakkarainen raised just now. It enables the study of major world languages, especially in educational institutions in Eastern and Inland Finland. In these areas, the importance of Swedish in everyday life is rather limited, and it is motivating for students to choose the major world languages, such as Spanish, French, Chinese and Russian, which they think will help with employment, working life and internationalisation. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to highlight the Tampere 3 project, which is seen in Pirkanmaa as a new and important milestone in cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences. The purpose of this project is to create synergies between universities and universities of applied sciences in Tampere and to reduce administrative barriers. Part of the courses of the University of Tampere, the University of Technology and the University of Applied Sciences would also be shared. In the past, universities have worked well in the fields of medicine and biotechnology, among other things. The business community therefore hopes that the Tampere 3 project will make it possible to better reconcile theoretical and practical skills and create new business ideas and long-needed jobs. This is of course very important for the future vitality of our society. Mr President! I attach great importance to these reforms in terms of our future competence and our national competitiveness and I support the government in implementing these reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u196	Then we have Mr Grahn-Laasonen's speech, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u197	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for this six-hour marathon debate. I made quite a lot of notes during it, and there were many ideas for development. Among other things, Mr Heikkinen gave an inspiring description of the examples of how education can be exercised and the good experiences gained from it. Representative Louhelainen just gave examples of this working life cooperation from the School of Education Salpaus. Here in the Government's programme there is a strong vision of such a culture of experimentation and the desire to renew education and pedagogy, experimenting with and offering to our teachers — education professionals with a high level of competence and international comparison of extensive pedagogical freedom in their work — the opportunity to develop their own skills, and then, on the other hand, we can spread these good experiences and practices to the benefit of other teachers and, of course, benefit our children and young people as learners. A possible subject for experimentation, which we have discussed in the government, was the innovation voucher model, which could also stimulate cooperation between universities and SMEs, and which could then create new business activities and new innovations and growth within business. This idea of the government to launch such a new model of work-based learning, a training agreement, has emerged in several speeches, and it is also a very exciting opportunity to increase workplace learning and to ease the problems of passing secondary vocational education and training. That is a very worrying situation, which is that only 85% of the age group passes through its secondary vocational education. It is indeed a major challenge that must be met, and that is what we will be launching this kind of financial reform as part of this reform of secondary vocational education, where funding will be reformed in a more encouraging direction so that it rewards the results of learning about it and passing it and not just being enrolled in the school. On the other hand, it is important to reform and also diversify learning and learning environments and make them more inspiring. This learning in the workplace can also play a very important role. I understand that there are criticisms and concerns about these reforms in early childhood education, but on the other hand I would like to say this once again, as I have already pointed out in my speech, that with this reform of early childhood education we will determine that every child, regardless of the background and family, the status of parents in the labour market, is entitled to 20 hours a week of high-quality pedagogical early childhood education, which is also defined for the first time in the Education Government as the basis for early childhood education. On this basis, we will also launch next year a programme for the development of early childhood education in order to increase the quality of early childhood education. It is in this challenging situation when we have to make cuts and also there in early childhood education to look for savings, an important thing is that we will then also be able to increase the quality of early childhood education and develop the skills of early childhood education professionals. That's what they've been hoping for. The same applies to teachers. In other words, the government wants to invest especially in the knowledge of teachers and the introduction of this new pedagogy and the introduction of digital learning in schools there. We have over 120 million of these key projects for the reform of primary schools, and 50 million of them for further training of teachers: that we will be able to bring about change and bring about change in three years. I have not yet come across politicians in this Chamber who are particularly concerned with cuts in education. These cuts in education are very painful for the government, and no one would have liked them. But what is essential now is that, when we have scarce resources and are in an economic situation where action is required to be taken to stop debt, it is important to find those cuts from the reform of policies and specifically to tackle the structures and duplication and the walls from which the costs are generated and formed and to try to preserve the core, that is, the quality of education and research, until the end, that we do not cut them off. And once again, thank you all for your contributions. I hope that this good cooperation with Parliament will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u198	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u199	Madam President! The government is facing difficult times in making these decisions, but that means that the government is taking Finland to an even more difficult time. The government cuts one third of apprenticeship training, which does not make it quite credible to reform apprenticeship training to ensure that the apprentice is on the job. The government — rightly — seeks to lower the threshold for the organisation of apprenticeships by reducing the administrative burden on employers. This is a welcome view and a proposal, since the SME sector in particular has been particularly difficult and apprenticeship training has not been an attractive option. The resources for small jobs in the SME sector have not been sufficient to exploit apprenticeship opportunities. In that sense, the government's policy is correct. In the same way, the government's policy and vision highlight reducing the financial burden of apprenticeship training on employers, but does not say how it will be done. However, the training contract itself — and of course everyone can read what it means, that is to say, the apprentice who is doing productive work, does not receive a salary for this work, and then, of course, it brings financial savings to the company — is not enough for the ideological objective of the apprenticeship system to enable the apprentice to get the quality of his or her work so well-incorporated that he or she will be able to complete the future test. I would therefore hope that the government, in reforming the system of education agreements, could take more of a model of the "master-master" model which has been raised here in many debates. In my view, the most important thing would be for the government to support employers in the SME sector in such a way that, if an employee or a manager has taken over apprenticeships in employment, the government would, at this point, allocate resources so that, if it were to have 30% of working time certified, society would provide this employer with what is known as pay support for that period. Indeed, this makes it possible for a person who is responsible for this job learning in SMEs, in carrying out the guiding and teaching activities, to obtain the benefit so that resources can be allocated in such a way as to make it possible for them to actually learn at work. I cannot be convinced by the means which now seem to be in the government guidelines that this real job learning — in connection with the evidence of apprenticeships that is intended to verify this competence — will be achieved. Secondly, there is also one positive aspect that I will not object to, as long as we see what it means. The reform of secondary education, with access to further education, is the right direction, and we must be able to explore the different possibilities of improving the different methods of secondary education. In my own experience, when you move to a three-year upper secondary degree, a vocational degree itself has not brought better skills resources to work. At this point, we need to be able to see the signals from the labour market that have come from the reform of the labour market since the transition from two years to three years. However, it is precisely that step that must be maintained so that, if a degree is completed in a shorter period of time, the opportunities for further training must be secured — for example, so that we then have a theory of preparation for university of applied sciences studies, Mr President! Much has been said today specifically about integration and the difficulties that exist. I would like the government to see that it is in early childhood education that there are many situations,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u200	Madam President! During this period, young people are so ill that they begin to be like the elderly when they are born. Well, not when they're born, but they're already in such bad shape at school that it can't be understood.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u203	Madam President! For over a century, the main theme in Finnish history has been to increase Finnish culture, Finnish competence and Finnish culture. Even in hard times, this country has invested in education and research because we have known that the future of Finns depends on knowledge and civilisation. Now the Finnish Government has decided to break this tradition. The Sipilä Government's programme is the first in Finland's history to set the goal of a decrease in the Finnish educational level, a decrease in the number of university degrees. Often the records of government programs remain dead letters, but this time the government has certainly taken real action and decided first to cut billions of euros from teaching and research. After the collapse of Finnish expertise and research, it is pointless for the government to come and talk about some national competitiveness and productivity leap. How, for example, have China and India become the great powers of the world economy? Cheap work? No, by investing in education and research, in the development of their own universities and in the study of talented young people abroad. How on earth could poor developing countries in the 1980s afford to invest hundreds of billions in education and research? By knowing that knowledge is the only way out of poverty. The same was still known in Finland in the 1990s, when Lipponen's rainbow government invested in research and education, even though at the same time it was necessary to cut the basic services of the citizens with a really large hand. That investment raised Finland from the recession. This investment improved Finland’s competitiveness so much that Finnish products started to sell on the world market again. Then what are we taking? Chemicals, machinery, processed wood, electronics, engineering products designed by engineers. The engineers are certainly a lot of guards, and Finland’s competitiveness depends very much on their professional skills. However, the future does not promise a good one, because the level of technical knowledge is falling, the number of long-term mathematics writers is falling and the number of abuturients seeking to study engineering is falling. So what does the government intend to do to improve mathematics education? Guarantees an hour of exercise for every day of school for EUR 21 million. In fact, in recent years there has been an investment in the teaching of all subjects except mathematics and science. The debate on education policy has focused on sports, handicrafts, the number of hours of religion, fiction. If our economy were based on the export of hockey players, the government line could somehow be understood. Madam President! A few words about education exports, i.e. the fees collected from students coming from outside the EEA, i.e. the sale of qualifications: First of all, a principled argument as to why tuition is a bad idea: the level of our universities is certainly not going to rise by getting to study instead of learning with money. How does it feel for a student who has been sweating during the Finnish entrance exams when a foreign fellow sitting next to him has earned his study place for money? The second argument is academic: The diversity of students and researchers and teachers is an absolute value in universities. The problem with Finnish universities is their originality. The majority of students, teachers and researchers are Finnish, although many studies show that new ideas are best created in communities with different backgrounds and cultures. Finnish universities should attract foreign students with scholarships rather than reject them with tuition fees — and distribute drinks to nightclubs so that as many students as possible will stay in Finland after graduation. Thirdly, it must be borne in mind that tuition fees also include consumer protection. For example, in many admired, expensive American universities, students also demand value for money: If a professor gets low grades from his students, he will soon be an unemployed professor. The risk is that universities will concentrate their resources on serving paying customers — excuse them, students — and others will receive less education. Besides, those tuition fees aren't gold mines. Our universities are not so excellent that we can charge prices for our degrees, which would leave some margin in the colleges.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u204	Madam President! In my previous speech, I mentioned the subjective right to early childhood education and the fact that it will be slightly reduced. However, I think it is extremely good that this government is able to keep the line that parents have the right to choose which parent stays to take care of the child with the help of home care. That's where we're at with such important things when we think about what's best for the family. Of course, it cannot be dictated from outside, even though that was the way it was tried in the previous period, and of course the proposal received a great deal of resistance. I think it is a good thing that it is not progressing, but that the right to choose remains with the parents. That is a good thing, and it tells us that the government understands what the family’s interests are in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u205	Madam President! The discussion on the impact of educational cuts on the future of Finns is quite appropriate. I personally at least welcome the importance of apprenticeship training, as Mrs Myllykoski raised here. It is also a good part of the possibility for entrepreneurs to have a new workforce in their own company. Ensuring the future of small upper secondary schools is also well placed in the Government Programme, and I welcome this, not just cuts to them, and start-ups will be secured, as will secondary education, which will safeguard jobs and a good-quality workforce for entrepreneurs. But this speech, which Mr Plant has just spoken, in which he evaluates the Government Programme. Time shows its results, but I believe that Finland's strong rise in this early 21st century was quite far from Nokia's result and not so much depends on Lipponen's government's investment in education. I personally think it is important here for the share of physical activity, which also comes to the government programme, to increase the amount of physical activity in school. And one more thing about that speech by the representative of the plant: in my opinion, music business is one of the hard things that is currently producing in Finland, and yes, it is a good thing to note even in the current cultural milieu.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u206	Mr President! I came straight here from Stockholm, Sweden. We were studying Swedish science with Tutkas, a joint network of scientists and representatives of the Parliament, and yesterday the Swedish Government published next year's budget, which makes a huge contribution to education. What is being done in Finland at the same time? There's a huge cut in education. Sweden has made a clear choice. Sweden wants to compete in the international economy with knowledge and high-skilled products, not with wages, not with low prices, but with high-quality products and know-how. The Finnish Government seems to have chosen a completely different path now when there is a reduction in education and a reduction in wages. This is the strategy of the loser, because we cannot pay to compete with Romania or Bulgaria or other less developed countries, but we must compete with knowledge, education and training. The Finnish economy has been based on knowledge, and cutting research, product development and education is a very short-sighted policy for future economic growth and production potential and the future of business. How are we ever going to get those new soots and export companies if we are cutting back on education, research and product development, future growth? VTT, the Academy of Finland and universities are now under a great cutting edge, and I am very concerned about Finnish science life, research and, as a result, the future of our knowledge and economy. Instead of cutting, it is now time to invest in education and research so that we can have the new innovations and products, the new soots. Of course, reforms are also needed, but the calling of cutting to reform is falsifying. We need more digitalisation in education, we need more flexible pathways for qualifications, opportunities for completing part-time qualifications, more flexible admission and exam opportunities, access to unemployment support to study. But even development requires resources. It does seem crazy to me that now the number of master's degrees will be reduced and the level of skills will be reduced, as jobs in the future will be reduced in a low-skilled area and jobs in a high-skilled area will increase. Yes, Finland is now choosing the path of the loser.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u207	Madam President! I would like to make a brief second comment on this point. — The Finnish education system has been known for its successful combination of high-quality skills, equality and efficiency. However, there has been a clear decline in these young people's learning outcomes, school satisfaction and motivations and attitudes over the last few years, and I must say that all of this will certainly be further affected in a negative way by these government measures and government savings packages. What have we Social Democrats supported? We are in favour of structural reform, but, unlike the government, we are assuming that the reform must be carried out from administration and premises, not directly from education. Structural development must be more open-minded to seek new cooperation and cost savings between upper secondary schools in the same region, vocational schools and liberal educational institutions. In his last speech, as well as Mr Juvonen, the Minister for Education defended this government's line of action to restrict subjective day care. When I disagree with this point, I would like to say that, when a large number of exceptions have been included in this legislation to allow families who are still on family leave or are unemployed to continue to have the right to full-time early childhood education, the question arises as to what kind of control and work is becoming, while talking about deregulation and facilitating work is being discussed. And then perhaps, when we are talking about education and we are talking about it all day long, that the government has also included in the government programme that the government will save EUR 1 billion by reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities: At this stage, we do not yet know how the government intends to scrape up that billion euro. In some ways, it would have liked a debate or confirmation that it is not going to cut out more of education yet, and whether further cuts in early childhood education and basic education will continue to be saved when these municipal tasks are reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u208	Madam President! Mr Pakkanen is quite right that the onset of the recession in the 1990s is crystallized by the rise of Nokia. However, its rise was precisely due to investments in ICT education and its research projects. I was involved in several of these projects and myself as a researcher and teacher At the University of Technology, when the generation that later continued Nokia was trained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u209	Mr President! A few comments that I forgot about that speech: The main government measures also include the development of apprenticeship training and the reduction of the administrative and financial burden on employers. At the same time, this means deregulation and duplication. The Government also aims to improve the recognition of previously acquired know-how. We are talking about the AHOT procedure, which means that what has been learned in the past must be used in the studies in such a way that it is read for the benefit of students. This has certainly been possible today, but not always so applied: it has not always been so easy to implement these AHOT guidelines. But the students have very much hoped that they would come true and that this would be possible. Mr President! The Government’s aim is to speed up the transition to work, and that is a very important issue for the young person himself. The objectives to be implemented in accordance with the Government Programme are to move young people more quickly to further studies, to flexible study paths and to reconcile work and study. And, for example, the digital learning environments to be introduced in higher education institutions, such as various online courses and exam aquariums, bring benefits for both students and teachers. We also have a huge digital world coming up, and it is waiting for our young people and students, and that is where we are, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-22-ps-37.u210	Madam President! It must be said and acknowledged that the opposition and, in its initial capacity as a representative of the government party, tried to highlight this development of apprenticeship training and the need for us primates who are not sitting on the school bench to be a large number of people who have been excluded from young people because of the lack of taste in theoretical education. In that sense, the government has fully realised the need to find various instruments that will then be able to further develop the concept of knowledge. Of course, many people do not have the skills to exploit it; a 16-year-old apprentice has little to gain from learning to work. In this respect, the government should also pay particular attention to enabling us to also have young people aged 16 to learn a job job. In other words, in the government's mind, it is now being translated, let us hope, in a different way, that it is possible to acquire knowledge and thus learn a profession at work and not just to learn in a school-oriented way. Then we should also change the legislation so that young students have the opportunity to increase their skills through work learning to the extent that it leads to a degree. In Finland, we must strive in particular to ensure that the degree is really important but that knowledge is even more important.
