ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u1	The second item on the agenda is the supplementary election of the Finnish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u2	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of an assessment of research and safety in nuclear waste management. After what Mr Rehn has said, I will, at my discretion, give up to two minutes of responses, which will be reserved using the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u3	Mr President! Representatives! To begin with, for the sake of clarity, this Prime Minister's announcement of etymology and procedure: This statement by the Prime Minister is the result of Parliament's statement on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs in June 2001. At that time, the Parliament required the Government to report to Parliament on new research data and technological developments obtained after the decision on the basis of the principle before the building permit was granted in order to ensure the safety of the final disposal of nuclear waste. The form of the statement differs from the standard practice, which in principle asks either a report to the committee or a report to Parliament. Parliament's will at that time can be explained by looking at the debate in the plenary session on the report, which shows that the use of the term 'explanatory' was a well-informed choice, rather than using the term 'explanatory'. It also shows that, because of the importance of the matter, the report is intended specifically for the whole Parliament, not just for the Committee on Economic Affairs, for example — in any way without prejudice to the importance of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is further apparent from the minutes that representatives have understood that decision-making on the construction permit is solely the responsibility of the Government. It is therefore essential that the whole Parliament be involved in the additional information provided. In order to do so, the options are the presentation of the report and the Prime Minister's announcement. The first of these, in view of the above-mentioned plenary session debate, is not in line with Parliament's will, so the Prime Minister's announcement procedure has now been mentioned. President! Then the content of the notification itself. If this is technical at times, then I can say that you did, or we ourselves, as a Parliament, wanted — that is, in 2001. But let's go with the book and, if necessary, let's go with a little bit of technology, because we have to get some information. The principles of the use of Finnish nuclear energy have included long-term responsibility from the outset, including responsibility for nuclear waste. In 1983, the Council of State stated that the final disposal of the deep bedrock is a suitable solution for Finland. In 1994, the Nuclear Energy Act was amended to prohibit the export and import of nuclear waste. In other words, we decided to take responsibility for nuclear waste produced specifically in our own country. At the same time, the nuclear power companies of the time joined forces and established Posiva Oy to manage the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Parliament decided in May 2001 that the Government's Resolution 21. The construction of a nuclear fuel disposal plant in Olkiluoto, Eurajoki, will remain in force as such. At the same time, Parliament required that before granting a building permit, the Government provide Parliament with a report on new research data and technical developments received after this decision in principle, and this report is now at your disposal and at our disposal. Decision-making in principle on the construction of a capitalisation and disposal facility was taken by the Government in 2000 and 2002. The principle decision adopted in 2000 concerns spent fuel generated by the four nuclear power plants currently in use in Finland, and the 2002 resolution concerns the spent nuclear fuel of Olkiluoto 3: the first one does not exceed 4000 tonnes of uranium, the second one does not exceed 2500 tonnes of uranium. The application for a building permit for an encapsulation and disposal facility was submitted to the Government in December 2012. It is accompanied by studies under Article 32 of the Nuclear Energy Regulation and also by studies on environmental impacts and reversibility as well as transport risks required by the decisions of principle. The Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority issued an important positive opinion on the project last winter. Mr President! A method has been adopted in Finland for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which was originally developed in Sweden in the early 1980s. Since then, the solution has been further developed and its key elements have been tested in both Sweden and Finland. Crystallised: An encapsulation facility with auxiliary and ancillary facilities will be built on earth for final disposal. However, the actual final disposal plant is mined in the bedrock and the spent nuclear fuel is packed in the capsules and placed in the tunnels of this disposal facility. The solution is based on a system consisting of rock, copper capsule, bentonite buffer and plant closure structures around final disposal facilities. The aim is that the failure of individual barriers does not substantially reduce the functioning and safety of the whole system, the whole system. The purpose of the release barriers is to isolate spent fuel and its radioactive substances from the living environment. According to the application for a permit for construction, the planned disposal depth of between 400 and 450 metres is sufficient for safety. The risk to the security of the disposal facility could arise in the future from the block movements of the earth’s crust after the ice age. For safety reasons, final storage facilities are located in the rock block area in as intact rock sections as possible. Bentonite used as a bulking agent also protects the capsules from minor bedrock movements in the final storage space. At the same time, underground bedrock surveys were launched in addition to surveys carried out on the ground after the site was selected in 2000. The construction of the underground research facility, the Onkalo, began in 2004. This cavern now extends to a depth of some 450 meters. The bedrock of Olkiluoto has been studied closely and very extensively compared to Finland’s bedrock in general. Geological studies show that the bedrock is stable and there are no earthquakes affecting the operation of the plant. Stuk, the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency, re-evaluates the rock classification system as a whole in connection with the processing of the permit application. President! The technical plans of the major countries using nuclear energy have already been brought to a very detailed level, although there are still development challenges. The main differences between these countries in the use of nuclear power relate in particular to the choice of sites for disposal facilities and the resulting environmental and social impacts. Finland participates in international cooperation in nuclear waste research. In Finland, Posiva has been setting up a final investment technology platform in the European Union. The vision of this European Technology Platform is that the first installations for the disposal of long-lived nuclear waste will be operational in Europe by 2025. Finnish authorities and nuclear waste organisations actively participate in international nuclear energy organisations. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. As a summary of this perhaps slightly technical, physics and chemistry safety report, it can be said that the construction of nuclear safety in Finland is long-term. The current nuclear waste policy was set more than 30 years ago in the early 1980s. On this basis, the final disposal of spent fuel has been systematically planned for decades. The present Posiva project is entering the actual construction phase. Other, low- and medium-level nuclear waste is already exported as routine operations to its disposal facilities in Olkiluoto and Loviisa. The various stages of the process have been carried out responsibly, and this must continue to be the case. Posiva's building permit is now coming to the Government. If the Government grants a building permit, the construction of the spent fuel encapsulation plant and disposal facilities may be started. It is likely that Finland would start using the spent nuclear fuel disposal plant in the early 2020s as the first country in the world. When nuclear energy is used, all stages of its use must meet all safety requirements and the whole operation must be responsible. This is exactly what the authorisation decision is about. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. This solution can best contribute to turning the Finnish rock legend's Eppu Normal heavy-spirited, rupee rhyme "but in no other country than Finland it is not without risk" from the joyous blasphemous to the practical reality. So let's do it in such a way that the bursting of uranium would be without risk, not only in our sad country of songs but also in the rest of the world, to which this Finnish solution contributes to providing guidance and direction. That is also why I hope that Parliament will support this solution. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u4	We shall now proceed to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u5	Mr President! On the basis of this study, we can be satisfied with the quality of research and development that Mr Posiva has done. However, there is an interesting possibility of transmutation, i.e. a shorter half-life of nuclear waste in fast reactors or sub-critical accelerator-based treatment plants. However, they cannot be applied to high-level glazed waste. After treatment, there will still be high-level, deep rock-based waste. I would ask: how far along are we in this possibility of transmutation, and would such an institution possibly be useful in Finland as well before rushing into the final disposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u6	Mr President! Thank you for a very thorough report to Mr Rehn. It seems that Finland is, in fact, the number one, in a certain way in the front row, to see how this final investment in nuclear waste is made. I would have asked, however, when the situation appears to be that international comparisons try to consider other options, but this has apparently been identified as the safest option of all. This also leads to the question that there has also been such a high level of know-how that it would also be possible to export it and, as an export pattern, it will provide a certain opportunity: to use this knowledge to make it as safe as possible in the rest of the world. But the main question really relates to what solutions have been considered elsewhere and whether it may have come to the same result as in Finland now that this building permit decision is being applied for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u7	Mr President! As Minister Rehn said, this plan has essentially remained the same for over 30 years, and it seems that Finland is now the first in the world to decide on the disposal of nuclear waste. It seems that the studies that have been carried out have had little effect on how this train runs. It's a time span that's hard to understand. The U.S. Academy of Sciences has concluded that nuclear waste should be safely disposed of for at least 300,000 years, preferably one million years. In 100,000 years, high-level nuclear waste will be more than a million times more radioactive than ordinary Finnish rock. At the request of Stuk, geology professor Saarnisto assessed this plan by Posiva and concluded that it cannot be recommended on geological grounds, inter alia because the impact of ice ages has not been properly taken into account. In Finnish plans, it has been assumed that permafrost extends to a depth of less than 200 metres during the ice ages. However, models from Canada from similar conditions suggest that it extends to a depth of more than 700 m, which would mean that this nuclear waste pot is inside permafrost, not only being under a tens of thousands of years of thick ice, but also under the sea. According to the Archipelago, both the beginning and the end of the Ice Ages include strong landscaping when the land first falls 800 meters and then rises as much as 10 meters per 100 years. In the case of Olkiluoto, there have also been signs of such earthquakes at the beginning and end of the ice ages. I find it very special that Finland is now rushing to be the first in the world to do so, even though nowhere else in the world is thinking about the final disposal of nuclear waste in groundwater and it is considered very risky to invest it also in permafrost during the ice ages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u8	Mr President! When the steps taken in Finland are that nuclear power has been chosen as one of the sources of energy, then, of course, we must also take care of our own waste. But at the moment I agree that there are still many uncertainties. I do not think we can look at 100,000 or a million years and say there is no risk. We also imagined that our mines would not cause any problems with groundwater. At the moment we know the situation in Winterfell, and Kittilä is becoming another problem. So it is not yet certain that these risks would not exist, for example, in the event of an ice age or the melting of permafrost. Personally, I would very much like us to be on this frontline in the development of these new energy sources, renewable energy sources, and thereby also to get exports to the world. So I hope that we will have a proper solution for Finland, but I think it is pointless and too easy to talk about the fact that there is no risk here. This still needs to be ensured, all possible new technologies will be utilised and made sure that Finland's next steps are not nuclear power but real renewable energy, which genuinely solves both energy and climate issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u9	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Industry for this communication and for the very clarifying proposal. At the moment, Finland has its expertise in the permanent storage of nuclear waste on a global scale, both at European level and on a wider scale. When Mr Hassi here pointed out that Finland could not be number one in this technology, let it be Finland or another country, but if whoever has the technical expertise and hence the number one position here is Finland, I think it is an extremely great thing. Both within Stuk's framework and within Posiva's framework, this expertise has become contagious to us. Of course, we face a challenge at national level to our own nuclear energy law, which dates back to the 1980s, and there are certain pressures to reform our own national legislation. When Mrs Myller also raised the point that we should invest more in renewables, I fully agree, it is quite true. But in Finland, we have this energy palette as a large palette, which includes nuclear power, which, however, does not produce the climate emissions and is still a basic security for our energy production. This technical development in this regard, which is in Finland, just as Mr Jaskari has said here, we can also use it as an export asset in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u10	Mr President! Now that we are considering and considering the importance of research and safety in the final disposal of nuclear waste, a great deal has happened since Mr Kääriäinen, then responsible Minister, introduced this law here in Parliament. There has been a huge amount of research, various innovations in this research, and Finland is one of the leading countries in the world in terms of final investment, especially in the rock. There are, of course, many other things involved in this matter. It has been required that, before granting a building permit to Fennovoima, either together with Posiva or alone, it carry out an environmental study on how it will finalise its own nuclear waste. In this context, I would like to say that this should be a matter for these individual companies, and there is absolutely no reason for politicians to stick their fingers at this stage. I note that the information that has been generated over the last 20 years supports the decision and, to some extent, ensures the way in which we are going, when this legislation has been adopted. It is not now possible to assess the different forms of energy, but to implement the decision when we have decided that Finland will take care of these matters itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u11	Mr President! As has been said here, the time span of nuclear power is virtually eternal. These plants are generating energy for us for a few decades, but nuclear waste remains a dangerous problem in practice forever, hundreds of thousands of years. At least that time goes beyond what I can see. Clearly Mr Kalli is much wiser than I am, because for him this pattern seemed quite clear. This final disposal will not start until next decade. Currently, virtually all of Finland’s nuclear waste is cooling in water basins. It is also one way in which we can move forward if we do not have full certainty as to whether it is worth drilling into the rock. If we now think that for a hundred years we are storing this waste, then if we look back a hundred years, in 1915 Finland was not an independent state. Who knew what the next hundred years would bring? They brought world wars, they brought a nuclear bomb. No one can predict what will happen over the next 100 years, and I cannot assume responsibility for this being a safe way forward for the next 100 years — and that is practically for centuries, hundreds of thousands of years to come. Mr President! It is responsible that all risks and open questions and threats to nuclear power and its disposal make no sense to build any more nuclear power, but to invest all this energy, time and Finnish knowledge in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the first speeches by all the groups who have asked to speak have been made. We will continue with the two-minute speech for a while, and then the Minister will make his first comments, and then there will be a very intensive short period of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this announcement. In fact, it has been a great wisdom for Parliament to follow a decision that dates back 20 years. Posiva has worked responsibly to solve the final disposal of nuclear fuel and has started to look for a Finnish solution. As Mr Kalli has already said, there are a wide range of studies on soil and rock in Olkiluoto hollow, in order to ensure that the bedrock is suitable for disposal. Anyone who has been there in Ocalo also sees that this work is viewed there with due seriousness. And so it should be, that's what we decision-makers expect from the future. At the same time as we have solved our own final investment, our expertise in this matter has grown. Finnish nuclear expertise in general is the world's top, and we must be able to recognise and recognise that knowledge and also see that we are trusted in this issue too in the world. I think it is a good thing that we can also export that knowledge to other countries and get other countries to know how responsible nuclear power is one part of energy solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u14	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a very good announcement. I was a little surprised by what Mr Hassi and Mr Myller have said, when you say that the brakes on this final disposal, when you usually say that the final disposal has not been resolved. Now Finland is the first to solve this in the world
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u17	Mr President! In this context, especially when representatives of Hassi and Myller and others raised these risks, the unfortunate fact is that we are taking risks every day and, in particular, energy production. In particular, 80 percent of the world’s energy is produced by fossils that are released into the atmosphere — the result, among other things, of an estimated one and a half million people per year in China and a few hundred thousand people per year in Europe dying prematurely from the symptoms of particle emissions. And, of course, we will then take the long-term risk that Mr Modig, for example, reminded us of when it comes to nuclear power: every day we take with 100% certainty the risk associated with climate change and the end of fossils in the current way of use. Therefore, perhaps with a little raflaism, I would argue that if we compare the risks of nuclear power with the forms of production that are currently mainly used in this world, then if nuclear power were invented now, it would be called cleantech — the fact is that. I am not, of course, in favour of nuclear power as the only way to replace fossils, and there is not, for example, an adjustable form of power that we need more when variable-power wind and solar power comes to the fore, but as long as Europe uses huge amounts of coal in the production of basic power, I believe that nuclear power is a responsible cleantech solution. I also think it is important to look at these risks very carefully, and I trust, in line with the Minister's report, that in Finland, if somewhere, perhaps not quite the Luppu dream, but quite close to it, we can get closer than anywhere else. The risks must be looked at carefully, but on the other hand we must not succumb to the kind of intimidation that claims that radioactivity is something of a natural, UFO-like threat. However, the fact is that if we were to apply limit values such as Fukushima, then Pispalanharju should be emptied because there is so much radon gas radiation. But it's natural. It's manageable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u18	Mr President! Of course, when a path has been chosen to produce hazardous waste, responsibility for such waste also includes trying to provide as safely and responsibly as possible. However, it is perhaps not relevant here, referring to popular music, to say that we would not be at risk with this chosen technology. In 95, a single 5 x 5 km rock block was considered a prerequisite for the final disposal solution in order to keep the block intact and uniform in the soil movement. Last winter, the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency requested a geological assessment from the Geology Research Centre and received it. That assessment does show that we are not without risk. No such rock blocks can be found in Finland’s soil and bedrock. In the case of Olkiluoto, it has been found that the rock block in which the caverns are to be located is broken down, just as the surrounding bedrock. Relatively uniform zones are no more than a few hundred metres in size, thus failing to meet the initial condition. Olkiluoto Onkala is far from being the best in terms of bedrock and geological conditions, neither Finland nor the world's best alternative to the disposal of nuclear waste, but practically the only option left in Finland when all the other settlements in Northern Ostrobothnia, Kainuu and Central Finland refused nuclear waste cooperation. Mr Rehn, you have shown that you are not only a renewable energy man but also a nuclear power man for life and blood. In this context, I would like to ask whether you consider it a realistic alternative to this Posiva Onkalao, which Fennovoima Oy has presented all these years as an alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u19	Mr President! In this Chamber, when it is discussed, there must be a wide range of aspects of nuclear power as energy production, but it would like everyone's point of view, as far as nuclear waste is concerned, to act as responsibly as possible and, of course, to take account of the threats that have to do with these various reports. But perhaps we can say here, as Mr Mykkänen said, that in any case we always have certain threats to energy production and as long as we actually produce energy with nuclear power and it is part of our energy palette, there are certain threats to its disposal and these threats must somehow be resolved. In that sense, it would be a good thing that Finland prefers to go from the point of view that we are the first in the world to solve them, as we have been, and we will continue to do this work, from which others can then learn, and also so that we can learn from others. In fact, I would have asked the Minister in this connection: when this expertise has already been brought up here, which is largely developed in Finland and what we have, how will it be used also in exporting this knowledge elsewhere, and, on the other hand, how will we bring back the experiences that may have been discovered elsewhere, and then work together outside the borders of the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u20	We're going in groups, as far as the third round is concerned. Three more speeches, then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u21	Mr President! It is a good thing that this issue of nuclear waste is properly discussed in this great Chamber, and thank you, Mr Rehn, for coming to this Chamber in the form of a communication. Until now, Finland is the only country in the world that has permanently solved this problem of disposal of nuclear waste. It is true that nuclear waste and nuclear power in general have enormous problems — even though it is state of the art — but Finland has been credible so far in its own affairs, and precisely in the sense that we have always been a safe nuclear country, and that reputation must be maintained by all means at its disposal. The fact that we are placing these nuclear waste in the soil of our own country is the only correct course of action. If we use nuclear power, then these waste must also be placed in the bedrock of our own land, and for that reason we have legislation to do this. As far as this Fennovoima project is concerned, where preparatory construction work is currently under way: it would be desirable to take a decision and, within the framework of the legislation in force, to make it possible to place these future wastes in the same cavehouse. It makes no sense to start digging different caverns around Finland, because one place is easy to implement and easy to control, and above all that technology is already known. Mr President! Another point to note is that when many people have doubted the permanence and goodness of its bedrock, we must remember that Finland currently has the world's leading geological research institute GTK, which has made Finland's bedrock a very good survey and knows where it is safe to place these wastes. Of course, looking millions of years into the future is always predictive, but the know-how of the Geological Survey and also the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre is the best possible. So, with a safe mind, we can live and trust that things have been done well in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u22	Mr President! At this stage, I will take a position on a few of the points that have been raised: Mr Modig said here that a hundred years ago there was no knowledge of what technical progress was and it has been enormously dramatic in the last 100 years. It's true. But there is no reason to doubt or assume that technological progress is now at its peak that nothing will happen in the next hundred years. As a result, I think that this technological development will continue, and it may be that this nuclear waste does not actually need to be disposed of, but at some point, when technology is still moving forward, then this nuclear waste can also be taken into use in such a way that it can even be used without danger. But that's the future, though. It is a little confusing now in this House that this issue, which I think is very technical, is also being made a government-opposition issue. I think that every Member of Parliament, whether a government or an opposition, could deal more with this as a technical issue in this debate. As far as exports are concerned, it is quite true that Finland now has the world's leading expertise in this area, in the final disposal of nuclear waste, and this is, for example, the aim of the project to sub-company Stuk. Stuk's role must also continue to be to monitor this nuclear safety as an authority, but the part of Stuk that supports the export to which Posiva has gone with his own expertise can be incorporated. This can also be very important for Finland that we make use of the expertise we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u23	That is the last point, Mr Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u24	Mr. Speaker! This is indeed a very big issue that is now under discussion. My view is that these Olkiluoto cavities are probably the most responsible way in the world to place this nuclear waste. Of course, nuclear waste is always nuclear waste, but this Finnish solution seems very responsible and the best in the world, at least for the time being. But I would now like to have a very clear answer from Minister Rehn when we have Fennovoima coming in anyway, what kind of guidance you will give on this issue, because now it seems very appropriate that Fennovoima's waste should really be placed in the same Hollowa. Can you state very clearly here today that this issue is not always in the public domain, where it will be placed? I hope that there will be a clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u25	At this point, Minister Rehn. Let's try three minutes of adequacy and be happy here in the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to talk in three minutes and the rest in the next round. Firstly, with regard to the question of how this possibility of the transmutation raised by Mr Östman has been taken into account, and in general with regard to how, on the one hand, technological developments are being taken into account, this issue is being investigated and, therefore, in this whole solution, this reversibility of nuclear fuel is also one of the key criteria. If, at some point, there is a better solution than that which is now being reached over the decades, it will not have closed the doors but may be possible to return to it. Mr Jaskari as well as at least the representatives of Turunen, Salonen and Räsänen asked about exports of nuclear safety related technology. This is a very fundamental issue and assumes that Finland is a world leader in nuclear security technology, know-how and expertise. When we think that nuclear safety is in the interests of all mankind, where nuclear power is used, it must be safe in all respects. If this is in the interests of mankind, then there are reasons why Finland can actively promote the export of nuclear safety technologies that contribute to this common interest of mankind. There is nothing wrong with that; on the contrary, it is very good from the perspective of all mankind. In fact, this is what we are doing actively at the Ministry of Labour and Life, and we have weekly visitors or otherwise work with different countries in this area, and the FinNuclar Community is conducting this cooperation between the various actors in this cleantech sector. Representative Hassi as well as representatives of Modig, Kalle, Rantakangas, Hoskonen, Turunen and Salolainen referred to this basic solution. It may be noted that the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority has assessed these aspects presented by Mr Hassi in the context of the safety assessment of the building permit. In this regard, I would simply like to say that, even on the basis of those estimates — not only of the normal city or peasant order but also of their estimates — final disposal in the bedrock is a safer option than underground storage in the water basin. If disposal solutions have not been made elsewhere, it is not so much because there are no technical solutions, but because this is more a social and political problem than a technical challenge. I think it should be asked whether it would be better if we were in the same place as elsewhere, that we were not able to make decisions and that we would have to rely for decades on land storage in water basins. I don't think it's better and more responsible that we take care of things ourselves. Mr President! I have exceeded time, but I would like to answer this question on Fennovoima, which was raised by Mr Kalli, Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Salolainen in at least their different forms. In this regard, the way in which the nuclear waste produced by Fennovoima will be disposed of in due course would clearly be the best solution for companies to find together a solution for this investment in the Posiva and hollow caves. In socio-economic terms, it is much better to make use of existing caverns and solutions. The Nuclear Energy Act is in the sense that Article 29 enable nuclear power companies to be coerced in the name of the overall interests of society. Of course, that is not the preferred option, and I trust it and I will assume that the companies will find a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to take a debattism and I would ask those Members who want a reply to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u28	Mr President! The corresponding minister has a beautiful name, at least in Swedish it is pronounced "ren". But as we all know, nuclear waste is not as clean as the minister's last name. The cost of the final investment is estimated at EUR 3.5 billion and the cost of the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant at around EUR 1 billion. It is clear that sufficient funds must be raised for the Nuclear Waste Management Fund, that in all circumstances such long-term tasks can be carried out. I would like to ask the Minister: how is the government planning to fund this Nuclear Waste Management Fund?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u29	Mr President! According to existing legislation and decisions, we are responsible for our own nuclear waste, and this is, of course, correct. Many speeches and also the Minister's speech emphasised that Finland is the first in this technology, and I drew attention to the fact that, in the name of global responsibility, there would actually be a moral obligation to sell or transfer our superior expertise elsewhere. Well, if that is the case — and it has also been said here in many speeches that our disposal method is the world's top and the safest technology in the world — then the question arises that, in the name of this global responsibility, should it not be the waste of others when it is the best and safest technology on a global scale? At what point — when we talk about time hundreds of years on, or even decades on — do these ideas come to mind, and can the Minister guarantee that such a debate will not take place at some point?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u30	Mr President! When we talk about energy and nuclear power, we need to think about a lot of things that are not at all simple: security of supply, climate objectives, greenhouse gas emissions and, of course, employment, export-related issues, not to mention the energy price and its impact on export products. Part of this debate is now a repetition of the old one, that during the last parliamentary term there was a debate on this decision of principle and, among other things, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated in its opinion that the health damage caused by nuclear power stations has been shown to be lower than the damage caused by the use of fossil fuels. Similarly, in its opinion, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection drew particular attention to climate change and stated that by the end of the century it was very likely to pose a very high risk of serious problems. I would have liked to ask about this further commercialisation. It has remained open in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u31	Mr President! Representative Uotila must be told not that investments are coming to Finland, but that knowledge is being exported elsewhere. Of course, it must be admitted that when the political lines vary, it is probably good to keep this matter in mind and clear. It should be said to Mr Turuseen that there is no point in this debate that I have at least come to feel that this is a matter of government—oppositional division — I would like Mr Turunen to listen a little more closely to the speeches that have been made here. And not because it is such that it has been discussed for 20 years, such a question can be an opposition-government issue. As far as Fennovoima is concerned, Fennovoima will have two options next June: reporting a joint investment or giving its own assessment of the investment. Now is the time to give the two companies a debate on the matter, and of course it is of interest to us, but we should not be drawing the line here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u32	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Rehn. It was a clear text relating to this national interest in the disposal of nuclear waste. Of course, we all hope that there will be a commercial solution between companies, but if not, then of course we must use the opportunity provided by the Nuclear Energy Act to look first and foremost at national interests. Let us hope that we do not have to do this. Mr Uotila, you have previously supported nuclear power, but you are now opposed to: The introduction of such trolls and fears — it is no longer necessary. We have a clear decision that Finland will manage the final disposal of nuclear waste from its own nuclear power plants and not bring a kilo or a litre here. So, in this sense, it is not worth having new dimensions in this debate to create a state of fear that, in this case too, a troll is in the back pocket of the government. There is no such thing, but we take care of our own business, and you know it perfectly well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u33	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Salonen that I have listened very carefully to every speech, and I must say that Mr Salonen's speeches, in particular, have pleased my ear in the sense that you have made very well-founded speeches, but this general feeling was a bit of the kind that this issue too would have formed such an opposition-government position, but if this is not the case, this is particularly important. However, Mr Rehn, I would like to ask how, now that we have regulation at European level on the final disposal of nuclear waste and radioactive waste, and that regulation undoubtedly creates a market too, how do you see this European regulation and the change in the environment in which it operates?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u34	And now it would be representative Hassi's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u35	Mr President! I would like more Members to think a little more of this in terms of science and a little less of this as a political and legal process. After all, it is a question of natural science. I agree with Mr Mykkänen on the risks of climate change and with Minister Rehn that the storage of nuclear waste in water basins on the ground is very unsafe. I would like colleagues to understand that we are talking about a solution that should last for hundreds of thousands of years — not just a few parliamentary periods, but indeed hundreds of thousands of years, over many ice ages, longer than the Homo sapiens species has existed. We are talking about earthquakes occurring at the beginning and end of the Ice Ages in the rocky background that we have come to know with stability, and all this affects what happens to the nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u36	Mr President! It has certainly become clear that I personally believe that Finland must decide on the disposal of its own nuclear waste, but I understand the thought that Mr Uotila had, that if this is the best and absolutely sure system in the world, then why can't there be other nuclear waste? However, I personally believe that we cannot be 100% sure of the solutions that have now been taken. We must strive to have as good information as possible. But I am particularly concerned that nuclear power is thought to be a cleantech solution if a solution were to be made now. First of all, if we knew about this disposal problem, we would hardly be able to go into it again. And if we were to consider a permit to build nuclear power
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u37	And here are three speeches: Mr Kulmuni, Mr Razmyar, Mr Jaskari. And then, if the Minister wishes to speak briefly to him, then let us move on to the list of speakers. — Now, Mr Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u38	Mr President! Not only is it expensive to build nuclear power, but it is also very expensive, as we know. This report by the Department of Energy of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in September does well to go through the various points and also highlights how, at the moment, the cost of the nuclear waste management of five nuclear reactors in Finland – hopefully – will be 6.5 billion, of which 3.5 billion will go to the final disposal of nuclear fuel. Well, according to the nuclear power plant, nuclear power companies are responsible for the measures they produce, for the costs, but since there is also a very large social issue, it is also necessary to take care of how the State Nuclear Waste Management Fund operates, how to raise its capital, which I do not think is very large at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u39	Mr President! As many speakers have pointed out, the question is also ethical. Future generations will be tied to a solution whose safety will be assessed in the perspective of thousands of years. I hope, Minister, we can count on this assessment. I, like many others here, hope that this same energy and the same energy will also be used for renewable energy. As we are ahead of the world in nuclear power stations, unfortunately, renewable energy is behind us. But I hope, however, that whatever there is between the two options, we would think that the waste is common and that, therefore, the solution should be common. Here I hope that Parliament will have a common vision and will by no means make this an opposition-government issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u40	Mr Jaskari and then Mr Uotila and then the Minister, if you please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u41	Mr President! I would really like this debate not to be extended to include nuclear waste from other countries in Finland, because we have a very clear view that we are taking care of our own nuclear waste in the best possible way — which seems to be the best way in the world now, because we have not found any technologs that would offer better alternatives. I'm sure they've been analyzed. Then another debate has taken place on this particular nuclear waste from Fennovoima. It has been discussed whether it is, in a certain way, large enough. If we were to start discussing whether other people’s waste is being taken, it is not at all relevant. But the question really has to do with Mr Rehn — a fine thing, if the companies are now negotiating about it — to have such a national solution for this nuclear waste. If that is difficult, how active is the role, Minister, about to be taken, for example, on the part of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, to obtain a positive national solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u42	Mr President! I don't want to paint any threats, but I think a lot of people are thinking about this same thing. When we are very much praised for having the best technology, we have the best cavities, we have the best bedrock in the world to permanently invest nuclear waste, I believe that such a question arises. I just want the Minister — as much as his authority is sufficient — to assure us that nuclear waste will never come to Finland, this world’s best — technology for the world’s best — site. I'm sure it'll calm me down and a lot of other people. As far as Mr Rantakangas' reference to the fact that my attitude towards nuclear power has changed, it is no wonder that the attitude of one Member of Parliament changes when it has changed at a very rapid pace throughout the world and is constantly changing and nuclear power is recognised as an energy solution of the past and renewable, cleaner solutions, ethically stronger solutions, are growing. Think of it as: China alone produces more electricity from the sun than from nuclear power, which is actually moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u43	Minister Rehn, two minutes from his chosen location.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u44	Mr President! Thank you for these very pertinent, constructive comments. Firstly, Mr Östman very kindly referred to my name, which in Swedish means pure. It's so sympathetic. But what about when the whole name is pronounced Swedish? Of course, that's "alen." With regard to your question about the nuclear waste fund, which was also part of Mrs Kulmun's question, we already have a functioning system, and we have raised over EUR 2 billion in this nuclear waste fund. This is a solution in accordance with the Nuclear Energy Act, and this money is collected from nuclear power companies, which is perfectly justified because within this sector it must be collected because it is an insurance policy in its field or, in this case, the management of nuclear waste. Representative Uotila and other representatives asked about possible imports of nuclear waste into Finland. The Nuclear Energy Act very clearly prohibits the import of nuclear waste into Finland. In 1994, this nuclear law was amended to prohibit both exports and imports of nuclear waste, and so we decided to assume responsibility for nuclear waste produced in our own country. With regard to Fennovoima, which was present in the questions of Mr Salonen, Mr Rantakangas and Mr Jaskar, I would like to point out what I have just said, namely that it would be better to find a solution between companies. In social terms, it makes sense to use the caverns already in existence or under construction. It is precisely a solution in the interests of society as a whole. In this regard, I would just like to say that, in accordance with the Nuclear Energy Act, we are acting in the overall interests of society, we are not babbling, but on the other hand we are not going to stand up straight.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u45	We are going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u46	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen says that if nuclear power were to be decided now, it would be a cleantech solution. The interesting thing is that apparently Mr Mykkänen is the leader of the Parliament's energy group, which recently put forward here that the legislation would put an end to the use of coal in the short term. Now, if you think about Helsingin Energia's activities, Helsinki has large piles of coal and it is known in practice that Helsinki's heating with forest chips will not succeed. Now I am not asking the Minister, but I am asking Mr Mykkäs: would it then be possible for the nuclear power station to deal with this operation of Helsingin Energia?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u47	Mr President! I'm a little confused. There's been a lot of different annual reviews. Mr Hassi said that science is at stake, and as far as radiation is concerned, it was a question of hundreds of thousands of years and preparation for risk for hundreds of thousands of years, if I understood it correctly. For his part, Mr Razmyar spoke of thousands of years, and then, when I look at the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health of the last parliamentary term in 2014, it is said here that nuclear fuel is a radioactive waste with a high level of activity for at least a few hundred years. Now I ask Minister Rehn: how do you assess the time span of this radiation and its risk? Are we talking about hundreds, thousands, or hundreds of thousands of years?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u48	Mr President! This Government—Opposition-Standardis-sensitivityproceedingsfrom acolumn,because this parliamentary working group, which Do I remember correctly, Minister, that this has been discussed and is also in line at European Union level, that exports and imports from other countries in relation to nuclear waste cannot be carried out? Technology is, of course, the one that can be exported, and it is worth exporting it and developing it in our universities as well. We have the University of Lappeenranta, which has very good expertise, also for Otaniemi, here. We have these technical solutions, for which my know-how is not enough to understand, but I have the idea that, if we have so many of these, why can't we develop them from now on too, so that the risks for the future can be reduced, and perhaps in the future we can also use this nuclear waste for some other use.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u49	Mr President! First of all, Mr Myller challenged that nuclear power is not cleantech. Yes, we still have to think about how cleantech is defined, but we do not know all the things we do when we use rare minerals, such as solar cells or wind turbine inverters or electric cars. However, we are talking about cleantech because we know that they seem to be cleaner solutions than burning fossil oil, as they are. In the same way, given how little uranium and then nuclear waste are actually used and generated by nuclear power in relation to the energy it produces, I would still consider it cleantech if it were invented today, that is, as long as coal is used massively, it is cleantech. As far as the construction permit is concerned, before the waste management is in order, this is not the case. After all, Fennovoima is also required to get permission to do so. Then what Turunen asked about here: My view of Helsinki is that technically yes, if Loviisa continues, it would also be possible to heat the Helsinki area with condensation heat. Helen’s engineers and Fortum’s engineers feel exactly the opposite about its profitability, and I am not going to be a referee at this point. But I think that the state should be neutral and also allow the use of waste heat for something other than Loviisa sea areas in winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u50	Mr President! We must now say to Mr Mykkänen, on nuclear power and cleantech, an example which does not fit in with this equation. Fennovoima Oy has concluded a ten-year contract with TVEL, a subsidiary of Rosatom, for nuclear fuel — if it is ever completed. If you look at where this TVEL is producing its nuclear fuel, such as Siberian Majak, go, Mr Mykkänen, see if it is cleantech or not. But is there any existing technology in the final disposal of nuclear waste in Finland, and that is not a very clear question either. I don't think any nuclear waste pods have been placed. And as far as the need for investment time is concerned, the Geology Research Centre, which Mr Hoskonen once praised for the best in the world, has suggested, on the basis of an assessment commissioned by the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre, which is generally praised for the best interests of the world, that there is a need for the disposal of nuclear waste for at least 300,000 years, preferably a million years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u51	Mr President! On your request, Mr Hassi, I am thinking in a scientific way of approaching this issue: The threat that in a hundred thousand or a million years' time this nuclear waste will have any meaning is quite a small thing. A much greater risk is that in a hundred thousand years' time, the present civilization will not exist on earth, because emissions and the growth of the human population will make sure that greenhouse gases will change this planet quite significantly. And another such thing, or even greater, may be the collision of an asteroid within a hundred thousand years. It is a great possibility that once in this time such a 10 km diameter asteroid will be able to destroy the earth’s time completely, or at least mankind — yes, some plants may remain here, but then nuclear waste will not matter much anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u52	And in this debate, Mr Hassi and Mr Myller, and if the Minister still wants a minute's final comment, then of course it will be reserved for him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u53	Mr President! The time has come to tell us whether nuclear power is cleantech or not. Of course, it once seemed like a very cleantech compared to a nuclear bomb, but fortunately we have moved on from it. For example, we now know that uranium ore is mined about a thousand times as much as nuclear fuel and produces huge amounts of low-level radioactive pollution, but leaking into groundwater and rivers and lakes. As far as these hundreds of thousands of years are concerned, of course we can think that whatever it is, a meteor can destroy humanity, but I think we should take responsibility for the things we can influence. And now that it is really a matter of extremely long periods of time, I do not think that it would be unreasonable at all to decide to use, for example, ten years of the original plan for a longer period of time to find a safer solution. Nor does it have any effect on what happens to climate change. As such, I am with Mr Mykkänen and others who have spoken about this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u54	Mr President! I also believe that we must see what we know at the moment. I am sure that the future presents a number of problems, but when I referred to the need to decide on the final disposal of nuclear fuel at the stage of the application for a principle decision, I simply wanted to say that — and this was the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy last year in its own opinion — that if this had always been required when the application for a permit for a nuclear power plant was submitted, that it would already involve the way in which this final disposal is being carried out, I believe that it would have been much more difficult to obtain these permits. But as we know, this has been left on the knees of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u55	Mr Laukkanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u56	Thank you, Mr President, for stretching. — That is what I say here, when the debate is interesting, that when a minister is called upon to bring a proposal that he could somehow influence what is going on in the ground in a thousand or a hundred thousand years' time, even though a good minister is, I still regard it as a somewhat unreasonable requirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u57	Secretary Rehn, from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u58	I appreciate Mr Laukkanen's ability to compare these challenges that each of us faces. I would like to thank you for a proper debate and comment on just two questions: The previous round had a debate on this nuclear waste directive and on the EU's position on these issues. This was also referred to by Mr Paatero and earlier by Mr Turunen. We operate on the basis of the Nuclear Energy Act and also in accordance with the EU's Nuclear Waste Directive. It has recently entered into force and is now being implemented by the Member States. I believe that it has been delayed in quite a number of Member States. It seems that many other countries have a role to play in complying with this Nuclear Waste Directive, and you may well think that there will be use for Finnish expertise in this area, because, as has been said earlier, we have world-leading expertise in nuclear technology and safety issues. To Mr Hassi, referring to his earlier speech: as a political scientist, I do not have the courage to comment very much on science, but I believe, in fact, in relation to Mr Kiuru's question, nuclear waste carries a significant radiation risk for about a hundred years under current research. However, radiation is present for hundreds of thousands of years, but then the effect of radiation is the same as that of uranium in the earth’s crust. So we have to distinguish between this significant radiation risk and, in a way, the same kind of radiation effect as uranium in the earth's crust. Maybe the naturalist Hassi will fix it if I'm wrong about this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u59	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u60	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this whole has been finalised. This government proposal proposes to amend the guarantee pension law to increase the amount of the guarantee pension by EUR 23. The government proposes to amend the Act on Disability Benefits to remove the dietary allowance of EUR 23.60 for people with celiac disease. The proposal also proposes to clarify the regulation on the payment of a State contribution to the Social Insurance Institution in connection with the financing of benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution. The proposal relates to the draft budget of the State for 2016. The committee welcomes the increase in the guarantee pension. This increase will improve the livelihood of pensioners on the lowest pension incomes. Dietary allowance has been paid to people with celiac disease since 2002. At that time, compensation was justified by the fact that people with celiac disease suffer from special diets incur more than normal costs for their diet. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease for which there is no medical treatment, but celiac disease is treated by a prescribed diet and by avoiding certain foods. Gluten-free products needed by people with coeliac disease are still more expensive than conventional food products, although the supply of gluten-free products has increased. People with coeliac disease can also build their diet by not replacing avoidable foods with more expensive foods, but by other foods. According to the committee, from the point of view of equality, it is not easy for people with one disease to be compensated for their diet. There are other diseases in which eating is necessary. The dietary allowance has not required the purchase of gluten-free products, i.e. the reimbursement is not in the same way as the reimbursement scheme for the purchase of a medicinal product. In its report, the committee accepts the government's proposal to abolish the dietary allowance in order to achieve the savings needed to balance the state's finances and for reasons of equality for people with various diseases. The Committee stresses that it is essential for health promotion and disease prevention that people with celiac disease follow a diet that does not contain foods that are harmful to their health. In coeliac patients, deviation from a gluten-free diet leads to increased morbidity and costs in health care. When the dietary allowance is removed, it is important that health care measures support the self-care of people with celiac disease by providing advice, guidance and monitoring. In particular, the motivation of young people to follow a diet is particularly important in order to reduce the consequences of an untreated disease. Self-treatment continues to play a key role in preventing adverse reactions and keeping the disease asymptomatic. The Committee considers it important that coeliac treatment should continue to be taken into account when granting disability benefit for persons under 16 years of age, as stated in Kela's guidance on disability benefits. A person under 16 years of age with coeliac disease or skin pelvic disease will thus remain entitled to the current basic disability allowance of EUR 93.28. The practice of identifying and treating a disease has been in place for people under 16 years of age before the introduction of a dietary allowance. From this point of view, the development of disability benefits should be considered. Mr President! The committee proposes that Parliament adopt the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal without amendment. The report contains two objections to maintaining the dietary allowance. In addition, the first objection includes a proposal for a statement on the indexation of the guarantee pension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u61	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomes the fact that the guarantee pension can be increased even at an economically difficult time, although the index check is already taking EUR 3 out of the EUR 23 increase. The media hasn't been so excited about this promotion. On the other hand, a high level of public finance has resulted in a less significant reduction in dietary compensation for people with celiac disease. By coincidence, it is almost equivalent to EUR 23,6 per individual in euro. Mr. Speaker! I myself was a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in 2002 when this dietary allowance was created. I supported it. Even then it was not a very good time, but such an additional benefit was considered necessary. It was not thought that the sufferers would find themselves in a somewhat unequal position when such an additional benefit was created for one group of ills. As Mr Haatainen has just said, celiac disease is an autoimmune disease for which there is no medical treatment. The only treatment is a diet with gluten removed. When a celiac person removes gluten from his diet, he lives a perfectly normal and healthy life. If he does not, he will be exposed to metabolic diseases, intestinal problems, even intestinal cancer. If a celiac eater uses a gluten - rich diet in childhood and youth, it can lead to very serious problems with growth and development. It should be noted that people with celiac disease under 16 years of age will suffer a basic injury of about EUR 93 after the adoption of this law. Mr President! Why, then, has the dietary allowance been somewhat different? People have other diseases where a strict diet is necessary if they are to stay alive and healthy. Such a disease is, for example, gout, where avoiding the protein purine is important to keep the disease under control. A disease of major importance to public health is coronary artery disease or, in general, an arteriovenous disease, which not only causes heart problems but also causes strokes or circulatory disorders in the lower limbs, which may even lead to amputations. Of course, there are special replacement medicines for coronary heart disease, as for gout. However, these medicines already have a monthly increase of more than EUR 23.6 per month. It is not enough: a person with coronary heart disease must follow a diet that is as low in fat and as high as possible in vegetables and fruit if he is to survive — in spite of medical treatment. We know that the vegetarian and fruit-rich diet in these latitudes in Finland is also not very cheap in all seasons. There are other examples of disease, but I think that the example of coronary heart disease is quite sufficient to show that the current diet replacement has been somewhat different for sick people. Mr. Speaker! Indeed, if this country ever comes to a better and more rich and rich age of money, disability benefits could be developed in such a way as to create, for example, a separate category of disability benefits for dietary illnesses. But this law is linked to next year's budget and is also part of the Savings Act. In a better time, this savings law would not be made. This and other savings that sorely affect people are part of the project aimed at getting to them at a better time. Savings are part of fiscal consolidation. Much more are the government's other efforts to improve competitiveness, entrepreneurship and employment and to find ways of restoring the country's economy in the long term. But now, Mr President, we are all involved in austerity. Among other things, my family participates in this dietary allowance waiver.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u62	Mr President! The government is very excited about the EUR 23 increase in the guarantee pension. After all, the increase is to be welcomed, but the importance of the increase will melt into a minus sign, given the government's other savings on low incomes. Index cuts, increases in customer fees, reductions in medical and travel allowances increase pensioner poverty and force people to become customers of income support. However, most of all, I am concerned about those low-income pensioners who have said directly to me that they are not going to apply for income support, rather compromise on food or medicines. For many elderly people, applying for income support is so degrading that they do not want to do so. I find it sad that older people are placed in such a difficult situation, which violates self-esteem. They have not earned such treatment. Mr President! Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease without medical treatment. The only effective treatment is life-long diet. A gluten - free diet becomes more expensive than what is known as ordinary food, and for this there is a dietary replacement. If a celiac patient tries to build a diet without gluten - free products, it becomes very limited. On the other hand, if a person with celiac disease does not follow a diet, he may get serious complications and additional illnesses, not to mention a deterioration in the quality of life and an increase in sick absence. Even internationally, the dietary allowance for coeliac disease has been very low in Finland until now, and now the government takes this even small support away. Strangely enough, if coeliac disease were medical treatment, medical treatment would be compensated, but when there is no medical treatment, the only effective treatment, that is dietary treatment, will not be compensated in the future. The discussion around this issue has shown how badly celiac disease is known. Some have even considered the diet to be snooping. Minister However, Mr Mäntylä answered my written question honestly by saying that this is merely a savings law and cannot be justified for any other reason. I'm glad the minister was honest. Unfortunately, however, these savings will be exhausted if even a small group of deprived people with coeliac disease are forced to abandon their gluten-free diet as a result of this decision. Indeed, the increase in sick days and the treatment of additional diseases and even serious complications will cost society a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u63	Mr President! I have objected to the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the level of guarantee pension and dietary allowance. The purpose of the guarantee pension is to secure the livelihood of a pensioner living in Finland by paying a pension from state resources if his or her pensions are otherwise insufficient for a reasonable income. The full guarantee pension is paid by those who do not have any other pensions. In 2015, the guaranteed pension amounted to EUR 746 and 57 cents per month, and the Board of Directors proposes an increase of EUR 23 per month. However, it should be noted that even after the increase, the amount of the guarantee pension is not sufficient to safeguard the pensioner’s livelihood in accordance with the purpose of the Guarantee Pensions Act. The increase in the guarantee pension should take into account the low baseline and the impact of many other government measures on the economy of the poorest pensioners. In addition to the EUR 23 increase in the budget, the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group proposes an additional EUR 10 increase in the guarantee pension. This means that the amount of the guarantee pension in 2016 would be estimated at EUR 777. Mr President! Then on the dietary allowance: People with coeliac disease have been able to apply for dietary compensation for the additional cost of gluten-free diet by EUR 23 60 cents a month, i.e. celiacs 16 years of age and older. The government proposes that the dietary allowance be abolished. However, I would like to point out that celiac disease is a very serious autoimmune disease, and support for it must be compared with aid for the treatment of other autoimmune diseases. Other autoimmune disorders include type 1 diabetes, ms disease, rheumatoid arthritis, Sjögren syndrome and Crohn’s disease. The treatment of these diseases is supported by the society by the special reimbursement of medicines. The only treatment for coeliac disease is a lifetime gluten-free diet. So the diet is the only cure for celiac disease. And it should be noted that small amounts of gluten in the diet damage the lining of the small intestine. The body begins to destroy its own tissues, and the risk of other serious diseases such as small intestine lymph node cancer, osteoporosis, infertility, depression and so on is increasing. The research and treatment of these symptoms and additional diseases is rapidly generating large additional costs for society. It should also be noted that the symptoms of celiac disease vary from person to person but do not indicate the severity of the disease. Even at 16 years of age, when the government proposes that the dietary allowance ends, there are usually no miraculous cures. It should also be noted that according to the nutrition recommendations drawn up by the State Nutrition Advisory Board, conventional cereal products should be replaced by gluten-free alternatives. This will entail significant, continuous, long-term additional costs. In addition, many families have many celiac killers. We propose that the additional costs caused by the special diet should continue to be reimbursed to celiacs. I would like to mention that both the additional increase in the guarantee pension and the maintenance of the dietary allowance are included in the good, balanced alternative budget of the Christian Democrats. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u64	Mr President! The government is proposing to abolish the dietary allowance from the beginning of next year. By decision, the government treats one group of diseases unequally compared to others and transfers the cost of celiac treatment to the patient. The Government’s objective is to save only money for next year’s budget and spending limits period. It is amazing how contradictory and incorrectly this proposal is being carried through. The committee's report treats coeliac disease as food allergies, which is certainly not the case. Celiac disease is an incurable autoimmune disease without medical treatment, but the only treatment is a strict gluten-free diet prescribed by your doctor. Celiac disease belongs to the same group of autoimmune diseases as ms disease, Crohn’s disease and type 1 diabetes. These diseases are covered by Kela’s medical compensation, but they are not covered by celiac disease. People with coeliac disease have received a dietary allowance because the only treatment for the disease is an absolute gluten-free diet. There are no medicines to treat the disease. The compensation has covered approximately 35 per cent of the additional cost of food. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has suggested that people with celiac disease could eat something else if they cannot afford gluten-free food. The compensation has even been called into question on the grounds that it is not possible to check whether people are using it specifically for gluten-free food. I find this amazing. Removing the compensation reduces the therapeutic motivation of celiacs and their ability to follow a gluten-free diet. Untreated celiac disease causes many other diseases, such as osteoporosis, arthralgia, depression and even small intestine cancer, as has already been said here in many speeches. These in turn increase visits to doctors, various studies, the use of medicines and absenteeism. My great concern is for older low-income people and families, students, unemployed people, long-term ills, whose medical costs are already high. The government is targeting them with a variety of cuts and service increases that make it difficult for them to cope with everyday matters. For them, celiac pay has been very important in many respects. Food is part of the well-being and health of each of us as well as daily everyday life. Many low-income celiacs will soon not be able to afford gluten-free foods. It is unreasonable to urge them to suddenly give up a diet that conforms to nutritional recommendations. Mr President! The Government's proposal to abolish the dietary allowance contradicts health and well-being objectives. Therefore, the dietary allowance must be maintained. Mr President! The Government proposes that an increase of EUR 23 in 2016 be made in the guarantee pension. This increase may be considered necessary. However, the Government intends to allow the level of guarantee pension to decrease in accordance with the National Pension Index in 2016. It means cutting the daily income of pensioners. Negative revisions should not be carried out for benefits linked to the national pension and consumer price index. In addition, the Government intends to freeze the national pension and consumer price index adjustments for 2017-2019 and to leave the benefits at this lower level. According to the forecast, the level of the guarantee pension will fall by 4.7 per cent over this period compared to the fact that index changes would be carried out. This means that the guarantee pension is EUR 11 90 cents lower than it would be in 2019 when it is indexed. At the same time, the government increases customer fees and cuts medical and travel expenses, reduces the quality of services and makes a significant deterioration in the support for the housing of pensioners. Unfortunately, the improvement offered by the government to the recipients of the guarantee pension remains virtually at the level of an empty promise. Mr President! The representatives of the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left have tabled an objection to the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I come to the second reading of the law on diet replacement 2. rejection of the draft law. In the objection, we also accept the following statement: "The government requires that the government prepare provisional legislation which does not allow benefits linked to the national pension and consumer price index to be calculated according to the index in 2016, so that the increase in the guarantee pension would also benefit the pensioners in full."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u65	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen's speech must, of course, be corrected: Mr Kiljunen has just said that the committee's report would be similar to a celiac food allergy. The committee's report does not mention the word 'allergy'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u66	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the guarantee pension is a very welcome act by the government in this state of government finances, but when you think about this whole thing and wonder what is coming with pensioners, this feels very bad. In other words, the pensioner's housing allowance will be reduced, customer fees and service charges will increase, the level of medical benefits will be reduced, the indexes will be frozen — each in this Chamber will know what this outcome will then be in the pensioner's purse. Although this small increase in the guarantee pension is coming — it is, of course, a good signal, one of the government parties has been able to complete its programmes and implementation — the overall result is very negative. Then if you think about giving up this celiac allowance, it is also a rather unpleasant political choice for the present government. After many years, there was even a small increase in this compensation during the last parliamentary term, and now the government is taking away the whole compensation. In this debate today, it was said by a colleague of representatives that this dietary allowance paid to celiacs must be unequal compared to other diseases. However, it must be borne in mind that the government is only doing this cut with the need for savings in the state budget, there is no balance in it. This has been acknowledged by the Minister of Responsibility in reply to written question 29.10. This year, the need for savings in central government finances is the reason why celiac compensation is being exported. As has been said here today, celiac disease is a very serious autoimmune disease and a gluten-free diet is the only way to treat this disease. In the case of many other diseases, they are medicines, which are then partly also subject to substitution. In other words, I think that the abolition of the dietary allowance is a step in this direction, as mentioned in the Chamber, that different diseases are treated quite differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u67	Mr President! The patient is taking insulin, and the person with blood pressure gets a tablet, a medicine that is able to lower blood pressure. As several representatives have already said, food is the only medicine for people with celiac disease that they can use to treat their illness. Celiac is by no means an allergy, although that is what we sometimes want to see. It is an incurable autoimmune disease, as is the case with ms disease or diabetes, the seriousness of which we do not deny or deny. So why do we deny it in the case of celiac disease, especially since we know that if you are untreated, it causes osteoporosis, infertility and intestinal cancer, and treating all of these costs society more than partial replacement of a medicine with celiac disease, that is, replacement of food and diet? Finland has the best diagnostics in the world and has been able to identify people with celiac disease, and it has also enabled us to prevent other diseases and thus to save. Sometimes it feels like we currently have a society like this like a grain-free diet boom, and it feels like it may have clouded our understanding that for everyone it is not a question of self-choice, but of necessity. And when it comes to a low income person, a student, a pensioner, a single mother in a family of children, this allowance also counts. Finally, on the withdrawal of the guarantee pension: please note that travel expenses have an own contribution of EUR 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u68	Mr President! As has been said here, this increase in the guarantee pension is necessary, but it is a fact that it will not be able to compensate in any way for all the cuts that are now being made to low-income pensioners when the housing allowance for pensioners is cut, self-responsibility for medicines and travels will be increased and social and health care charges will increase. Therefore, the increase in the guarantee pension seems to be mainly a spurious move by which the government tries to divert attention from the painful cuts that are now being made. We have also commissioned calculations on this effect of the current index, by which this guarantee pension will melt away, which means that this EUR 23 is by no means true any more in 2018, but will actually melt down in 2019. These calculations we have commissioned through Parliament's information service, and they are still true. Mr President! Of this celiac disease, it is an incurable autoimmune disease, for which there is no medical treatment and the only treatment is this gluten-free diet. Since this celiac disease costs more than normal, it is reasonable that celiac patients should be compensated. I myself was in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in 2002, and Mrs Keränen was involved when we jointly got through this reform that this compensation would be provided in order to offset these costs. At the time, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health felt that compensation was necessary, particularly in terms of health promotion and prevention of morbidity, and it was also seen as a means of obtaining savings, since it could then improve the independent care of people with celiac disease. We know that derogating from a gluten-free diet means that diseases come and costs health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u69	Mr President! As Mr Keränen came to me to say here, his memory was wrong in that way. We discussed this, and indeed the Committee on Social Affairs and Health refers to celiac disease as being similar to food allergy, and this is based on a statement from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which in itself is also partly incorrect, and I would like to correct this in this context. In other words, our committee made a clear statement in its report which suggests that celiac disease can also be interpreted as a kind of food allergy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u70	Mr President! Still to be asked — I understand that you are a professional and a doctor in the field: What do you, as a doctor, say to a person with celiac disease who will say that you cannot follow a diet that the doctor instructs? Do you, then, prefer to treat the diseases that arise from the failure to treat celiac disease? I believe that all social and health professionals believe that the earlier it is possible to prevent, the cheaper the cost of treatments for society will be, but it will also be humanly better care. You don't believe in this, Congressman Kerränen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u71	Madam President! Indeed, I recall that the word 'food allergy' is not mentioned here, but yes, it is mentioned, but it is not in any way compared to the fact that it is the same as coeliac disease. The only way to compare this with the committee's report is if people with allergies also have to obtain food that is different from the diet of non-allergic people. Of course, as regards what Mr Salonen asked, many other diseases, such as the coronary heart disease that I have raised, also have to be fed differently from those that do not have coronary heart disease, and the coronary heart disease sufferer does not receive any dietary allowance for it either. Patients with coronary heart disease will receive special replacement medicines, but even their own contributions will rise above this EUR 23 per month. Of course, as a doctor, I have told my patients who have celiac disease that they must follow this celiac diet, because if they do not, they may later suffer from disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u72	Mr President! However, what is good about this government proposal is that the allowance for celiac disease for under 16-year-olds is maintained. And that is undoubtedly of the utmost importance because it is a question of basic food: bread, pasta, flour. These are the systems that are affected here, because otherwise the food is exactly the same as everyone else: the meat is the same, the fish is the same, everything else is the same, except for these domestic flours. It is very unfortunate that, in this economic situation, this must be cut off, but this cannot be the kind of thing that will bring anyone's economy down. If a pound of flour costs 50 cents more, it is not that big of a deal in the right way. Then we can also think that we have diabetes and we have many other diseases, where diet can also do quite a lot. If you did not know, soft tissue rheumatism, among other things, can also be treated with diet. Then you have to see what you buy from that store and what you use, what you eat, what you eat, what you apply to me. I admit that it is a pity that celiac patients cannot eat currants and French buns, but must be made from their own flour, but this is not a threshold issue anywhere. Children must also have carbs, and I think it is a good thing that there is still this compensation for the children, and then at home we can make flour products that can be eaten or bought at the store. Of course, what we could pay attention to is asking the bakers why this gluten-free bread costs so much, because it is not up to the price of the flour.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u73	Mr President! That's a pretty scandalous speech from Mr. Tolppas. Of course, the situation of people with coeliac disease is not the same for everyone, but there are groups who, after the termination of this allowance, find it difficult to follow this diet. Do I now understand that you, as a representative of the government, of the government party, are advocating, for example, that food costs for people suffering from celiac disease should be taken into account in the future as a result of income support? When this compensation goes away, you have just said that no one in Finland will be left in a situation where it will depend on money. I can tell you that, for those who live on income support, it is already difficult to comply with a normal diet on this budget. So, in future, are you driving a change in income support so that these celiac food costs are taken into account in income support expenditure, Mr Tolppanen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u74	Mr President! The coeliac allowance has been an issue that has become particularly popular, and in that respect we must send greetings to all those who have received the message: the decision is not positive, but everything needs to be looked at in the economic situation. I share Mr Tolppanen's view that compensation for children and young people on this issue will remain. And I hope that, as the economic situation improves, the dietary allowance will be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u75	Mr President! Many people with celiac disease have followed this debate throughout the autumn and I have received the message that many people have also regretted this debate because they have experienced that their illness is not understood or taken seriously, that is, even understated. And just such comments that man does not need the bun that man does get along without buns, are infinitely offensive to these people. It is also true what Mr Salonen says that this can bring down a low-income person's economy if he is to follow this diet of coeliac disease, especially when and if many of these government austerity measures then affect the same people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u76	Madam President! I would just like to make a small comment: according to the Ministry and the committee, the necessary nutrients should be obtained from foods other than cereals. Considering that it is recommended that 25 grams of fiber should be obtained daily from grain products other than gluten - free grain products, it would mean, for example, 25 carrots or 20 lettuces a day. That we can just each think about how many of us eat 25 carrots or 20 lettuces each day. I believe that this retention of the dietary allowance should be seriously considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u77	Madam President! Firstly, income support is the last form of social security in this country, as I hope you know. And it is very good that we still have income support, it must be maintained. But if you get really tight, as is very often the case with income customers, then there is still one that can be used and it is called discretionary income support. If it is a matter of life and death, even if it is a matter for the municipalities to decide, it is up to the municipal social services to decide, I cannot believe, to my death, that if this is the case, then it would not be helped. If we talk about whether a person needs buns or not, then all of us sometimes need buns. That is not what I said just now, that they do not need to, but I said that we can also do at home, can be made of flour. There are celiac flour — I know it is much worse than wheat flour. We also have celiac acid nearby and use gluten-free products when the time comes and when people with celiac disease are involved. But what is bad, really bad, is that such special products that are made less, the sale price, the finished product selling price, is so much tougher than other products. That's the bad thing about this. The basics from which the bun is made or where the bread is made, flour, do not cost so much more. It's a fact. Of course, I would like this matter of compensation to be temporary and to be able to be restored. Especially when you go to the point where you don't work and coeliac disease comes along, it must be tough when you cut it off. But luckily, people who are a little older usually know how to bake themselves and bake quite a bit of bread and buns at home, including gluten-free.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u78	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to correct Mr Tolppanen's idea of the price of gluten-free flour. The price of gluten-free flour is about EUR 6 per kilo, a few cents per cent, for example, when wheat flour is less than 70 cents, so we are talking about nine times or nearly ten times the price. Then gluten-free food is currently estimated to cost approximately EUR 70 per month. When we talk about income support, it is paid monthly, always according to the situation, and as discretionary income support one month does not take into account a gluten-free diet. Discretionary income support is based on other factors. On the other hand, flour is also found elsewhere than in bread or buns or pasta, in different food products. When you go to the store, you have to constantly assess whether gluten-free food is available or when you go to a restaurant to eat, you have to tell me several times and say that I have to have a perfectly clean gluten-free food. Most restaurants also charge additional costs for these gluten-free foods. That is why this is a much bigger issue than just this allowance for coeliac disease, it is about the content of life and the things that satisfy life. In some situations, it can displace young people, for example, when they cannot afford to go out with friends, for example, to eat together or to spend some time together, or even in those situations when they always have to justify that I’m sorry, I can’t eat this food because this is not gluten-free.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u79	Mr President! I can still understand in some way what the Members of Parliament in this Chamber have said about the need to make savings and this is one of the savings. But I cannot understand in some way even the arrogance that was somehow reflected in Mr Tolppane's speech. I really hope you'll get to know it before you talk. Mr Kiljunen has already explained the nature of income support and discretionary income support, for example. Food is regular, monthly. It is not a matter of discretionary income support, which is one-off support for something, for example, rent-a-rolls, which are aimed at helping the family. Yes, this is something that needs to be considered now, even in the case of income support, quite differently from what has been considered so far. I hope that, when you talk so much about it now, you will find out and then you will see that this is also the case, that the people who are in the most vulnerable position and for whom the price of food is significant should be better taken into account. Finally, you have to say that gluten is not just on bread. It's underestimating to only talk about buns or bread.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u80	Madam President! A reduction in the dietary allowance is justified by savings in order to achieve savings of EUR 10 million per year. The fact is that the elimination of the dietary allowance for celiacs brings much, much greater expenditure to society. It should be remembered that the symptoms vary from patient to patient and the symptoms do not indicate the severity of this disease. Sometimes the symptoms are very insignificant and small, and it is very easy to imagine that a strict, completely gluten-free diet can easily slip away, especially when it comes to small amounts of euros. It is not hard to imagine that the symptoms are causing an increase in doctors ’ visits, multiple studies, Skopis, and especially if a few patients end up with more serious follow - up disease, 10 million have taken a really long time. If afterwards, even in a year’s time, we begin to look at the costs that society has incurred as a result of the abolition of the dietary allowance, they are certainly not savings, they are high increases in costs and, of course, the personal and increased difficulties of families. As a doctor, I also plead that the dietary allowance for celiacs should be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u81	Mr President! We have to wonder here about this enormous desire to defend this abolition of the celiac allowance. Mr Tolppanen asked about this in his written question in June and said that when this entails such unreasonable costs for food expenditure, this proposal should be withdrawn, and now we are here to defend it fiercely. You said that when a coeliac patient’s gluten-free pasta package costs EUR 4 and EUR 1 receives four packages of regular macaroni, it is unreasonable to consider the cost of food. It would be hoped that there would be a little heated debate on this and that it would be said that this is a clear austerity law which is now being imposed on a group of such people who have a disease without medical treatment, and now these people have to pay more for their food and their livelihoods. Especially now, of course, we must be concerned about people who are very low incomes. If income support in these matters is the last place, then it knows nothing more than the municipal hatch — or, in the future, Kela’s hatch — more trafik and more bureaucracy. So this gluten-free diet in itself is a health issue to the greatest extent, and it would have made sense that this practice, which was adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the time — we adopted it with a broad consensus — would have been extended and perhaps given some thought to these savings on different subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u82	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen has already said here that the real problem is that these celiac flour and other products — not just those prepared products — are much more expensive. It therefore applies not only to these prepared products, but also to flour, macaroni, whatever is bought from the store. But all in all, this debate is a really good example of the fact that we decision-makers do not have the right information on this issue and that we are talking about it in some way through a relapse and, as it were, on the basis of rumours. And what is particularly sad is that there seems to be information gaps in the ministry as well, and their statements should be relied on by the decision-makers. The statement that was read there did give quite incorrect and distorted information about celiac disease, and that is a very worrying and bad thing to me. But I also agree with Mr Tanus that this savings law will not save any money, rather it will cause additional costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u83	Mr President! As I have just said, I really hope that this law will in any case be only a temporary law, that this will not remain a permanent law, that this can be corrected at some point, because this is a really bad law — this is a really bad law, I admit. If you suffer from celiac disease, it certainly fills your whole life, like all the diseases a person suffers, yes, it fills your whole life. Instead, I do not understand at all that the compensation for celiac disease is justified by the fact that the student has to go to the restaurant to eat. Is it really up to society to pay for restaurant eating, Mr. Kiljunen? This is what I'm wondering. Besides, maybe we go to different restaurants to eat. In restaurants where I have been, celiac or lactose free food costs no more than other kinds of food. They're gonna cost you exactly the same. What needs to be taken into account here is that, in any event, even in this proposal, the allowance for celiac disease is maintained for children under 16 years of age. That is a very important issue. What I think we should find at this point is how we can guarantee that, for example, our elderly people who have coeliac disease can also eat gluten-free food. This is a detestable law, but for working personnel it is not as bad a law as for others. This is one of the things that this government must have cut off. I really hope that at some point we will be able to turn this issue in a different direction. And if you start to look like people don't have money for food, then of course you have to find help either at the social welfare office or at Kela. But it's a different matter if it makes sense to run from the hatch to the hatch to get money for food. These are the things we need to think about. We're gonna face some bad things, and sometimes bad things just have to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u84	Madam President! We are dealing with a very unfortunate issue and, as has often been said, a celiac person spends an average of EUR 68 more per month than a person who eats a normal diet on his own food. I think it is important that certain fiscal solutions should now be considered in order to promote this. It should now also be noted that when it has been decided to abolish the sweets tax, it will also contribute to a reduction in the prices of gluten-free products used by certain coeliac agents. Of course, it is clear that everyone's livelihood must ultimately be secured through its discretionary income support, but it might be worth considering what kind of deduction rights we might be able to create for people who have to rely on a special diet in their daily lives. Even now, our tax system enables companies, for example, that if you have a nursing child with a special diet, then the entrepreneur has the right to make these deductions from the cost of its special diet. Could such a procedure possibly then be extended to people with celiac disease — I believe we would be talking about some 35,000 people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u85	Madam President! I think we all agree in this country that the economy needs to be set up. The government has its own tools in the toolbox, which can be used, then there are more tools on such a wider scale. They are not all available to the government. If you think about these cuts, then the pensioner who lives in a large detached house that is heated with electricity and who suffers from celiac disease and other diseases is in an extremely bad situation at the moment, and he cannot justify this surgery in any way either. But it must be understood that, in principle, the only way that the economy in Finland is in order is to keep this welfare society in operation, however. When the government has at its disposal the means to put the economy in order, the benefits are cut off, then the question arises that these types of cuts would not have to be made if we were to have a social agreement in this country. We would get the Finnish economy on a growth path, which is particularly important now, in fact, with a rather fast timetable, because the ECB is currently engaged in a revitalising monetary policy. But Finland is lagging behind the growth of Europe, and it is likely that the monetary policy pursued by the ECB will become tighter, which is particularly dangerous for the Finnish economy. That is why we should get Finland into a growth path, and it is particularly important that the social partners now agree on the ways in which this growth leap can be made. This is the thing that you don't have to do this type of surgery. I hope that now by the side of me on the right hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u86	Madam President! Now it seems to me that Mr Tolpppanen is having this debate a bit like cutting hair. In my opinion, students should have the opportunity to eat away from home. And this is a real practical example: There is a sports club, a team hobby where the team competes in different parts of Finland, and in these situations the team always goes to a restaurant or café to eat. In these situations it has become apparent that there is no gluten-free food available everywhere or, if it is available, it is more expensive than others. In that regard, this may have contributed to the fact that a young person who suffers from coeliac disease does not constantly want to be present with his own affairs and is not happy to go to a restaurant or to eat with this team. These are practical examples that will come. In the sense that you said and said that the reason is that the student should not go to the restaurant for dinner, I do think that the student should go to the restaurant for dinner just like all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u87	Madam President! Finland's state finances need to be put in order. It is obvious that savings must be found. But I am thinking as an example of a normal family: if the family’s finances are in turmoil and we start to wonder where the savings can be found, I would think that the basic math is that it does not begin to save on items that actually bring a lot of additional costs. And I think, however, that the management of central government finances is also based on a very basic math, i.e. not choosing things that actually bring a lot of additional costs as savings. In that sense, I would think that when making decisions, it might not be advisable to go too far from that basic math and make good and correct decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u88	Mr President! When the government makes these savings decisions, why does the government not calculate alternative costs? We have quite clear methods of health economics that I would be able to use and which would allow us to assess the benefits and disadvantages, costs and profits of decision-making. Congressman Turunen said we need to get the economy in order. The problem with this bill is that there is a very high risk that the cost of society will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u89	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u90	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the legislation on the earnings-related pension scheme. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the laws on other social insurance benefits and the laws on the financing of occupational pensions in the private sector. It is proposed that the existing various laws on the provision of pension cover for public sector personnel should be combined into one new public sector pension law. The proposal is in line with the agreement reached in September 2014 by the labour market central organisations on the reform of occupational pensions. The extension of working lives is necessary due to the dependency ratio, the balance of public finances and the upward pressure on the earnings-related pension contribution. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the financial sustainability of the system and an adequate pension level for different age groups and to ensure intergenerational fairness. It is proposed to gradually increase the minimum retirement age for the earnings-related pension scheme to 65 years. Moreover, the lowest retirement age born in 1965 and thereafter would be adapted to the change in life expectancy. The committee considers it necessary to raise the age of old-age pension and, at the same time, very positive that the possibility of a flexible retirement age should be maintained. The minimum age required under the Employment Pensions Act would be reduced to 17 years and the upper age limit would be gradually increased from the current age of 68 years. It is proposed to increase the pension throughout the working life by 1.5% per year on the basis of the employee's earnings each year and based on the established earnings of the entrepreneur. The committee considers that the transparency and clarity of the calculation of pensions should be enhanced by the fact that the pension will continue to increase from the entire salary without reducing the share of contributions. Changes in accruals and the increase in the pension from the full salary increase average pensions in all future age groups. The impact of these changes on pension levels should be monitored. Part-time pension as a form of pension would be abolished and replaced by a partial early retirement pension. The new form of pension will facilitate flexible integration of work and pensions with older workers. The committee believes that the use of this form of pension and its financial sustainability should be monitored. A new form of pension would also be a career pension which would allow a person who had worked a long career to retire before the lowest retirement age. Both physical and psychosocial factors are taken into account as factors of burden and burden at work, which is positive from the point of view of gender equality. The occupational pension scheme is intended to assign new tasks to occupational health care and employers who must be able to determine the long-term exposure of the pension to work which causes stress and wear. The Committee considers it important to clarify how information on long-term labour burden factors will be produced in such a way that equality between citizens will not be jeopardised. Mr President! It is proposed that occupational retirement ages should be gradually increased, with a retirement age increase of 3 months in 2018 and a maximum of 2 years for retirements in 2025 or later. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, raising the occupational retirement age does not lead to an unacceptable deterioration of the pension benefits of those who have chosen the occupational pension scheme, but to a gradual increase in the occupational retirement age in a manner similar to that of raising the general retirement age. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health shares the view expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the proposed increases in occupational retirement age are moderate. It is proposed that the increase in retirement ages be carried out in proportion to other employees in the military service of the Defence Forces and the Border Guard. In its opinion, the Committee on Defence proposes that these provisions be recast because the changes have a negative impact on the Finnish defence system and border security in exceptional circumstances. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that since the age of soldiers is 8 years lower than the general retirement age, it is reasonable, given the equality of citizens, that the difference does not increase. As the retirement age gradually rises, the necessary arrangements for defence and border security can be resolved in the longer term. The committee stresses that there are no changes to the basic features of the military pension scheme. The possibility for employment pension schemes to invest in shares would be increased by raising the share-linked supplementary insurance provision included in the technical provisions to one fifth of the technical provisions. A maximum threshold of 65 % would be set for an individual pension institution's share investment. The Committee considers that the proposed change is necessary and notes that the return on pension funds is a key factor in curbing the upward pressure on the pension contribution and ensuring the financial sustainability of the system as a whole. In connection with the pension reform, pension contributions for the years 2016 to 2019 have been agreed. The agreed level of payment is estimated to be sufficiently far into the future. The Committee attaches great importance to maintaining a stable level of pension contributions and to keeping fluctuations as predictable as possible in the long term. The committee notes that working careers will not only be extended by raising the minimum age for old-age pensions. The key means of extending working lives in addition to raising the retirement age is to prevent disability and improve well-being at work. Addressing prolonged disability as early as possible reduces the likelihood of retirement before the statutory retirement age. Workplaces should have policies that maintain the ability to work, prevent prolonged disability and facilitate return to work after sick leave. The Committee believes that investing in welfare services, even in times of recession, can have an important impact on the supply of future labour for the economy. The Committee stresses the importance of promoting health through various means in view of the growing challenges facing the labour market and the ageing of the population. Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u91	Madam President! Last Thursday, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health finalised this legislative package on the occupational pension scheme. It is indeed a big and significant change, and it is quite historic. This amendment, of course, is in line with the agreement reached a year ago by the social partners, but it was still not a big deal in committee. The committee heard no fewer than 43 experts and received opinions from the Committee on Defence and Constitutional Affairs. I am a little disappointed that this historic reform was somewhat overshadowed by the debate on social dialogue, but perhaps that is why it is worth noting that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was unanimous in its report. A few familiar facts: According to the Act, the minimum age for old-age pensions will gradually increase from 63 to 65 years. The change will affect those born in 1955 and younger. Since the birth of 1962, the lowest retirement age is 65 years. The lowest retirement age that was born later will be linked to changes in life expectancy. There are a number of other reforms in the legislative package, which the chairman of the committee has just given us credit for. For example, pension starts to grow from the age of 17 and is increased by 1.5% of earned earnings each year. The current so-called supermap will be removed and replaced by a 0.4% deferral increase, which will increase the pension for each month that is at work after the lowest retirement age. According to the calculations, employment pensions for today's young generations will be better than current pensions and the reform will favour some less skilled workers. Changes will also be made to earnings-related pension funding. These changes concern those working in all sectors and their primary purpose is to extend working lives. The extension of working lives is therefore necessary due to the changing dependency ratio, the balance of public finances and the upward pressure on occupational pension contributions. But, Mr President, the legislative package does contain a few points of pain. One of these is the Railway Liability Act. Under this law, the railway operator is not obliged to take out insurance, but if there is an accident in the rail transport sector for which the railway operator is considered to be responsible, the carrier will pay. In the event of a personal injury, you will be paid, for example, an invalidity pension, a survivor’s pension or rehabilitation benefits. Traditionally, this type of business has been taken care of by the employment pension institution, but according to the legal package now to be adopted, the employment pension institution can recover these costs from the railway operator. It is estimated that there will not be very many such cases, but even one who has been on disability pension at a young age may be an expensive case. The question is what will this have to do with whether there will be a willing railway operator when this rail transport is now being competitive? The second point of pain, Mr President, is patient insurance. The Patient Insurance Act was recently interpreted as replacing, for example, the service housing of a person injured as a result of a patient injury. This led to a significant increase in patient insurance contributions, up to threefold in some municipalities, and it is the municipalities that pay these contributions. At present, compensation for loss of earnings and disability pensions for patient insurance will become a priority over the general employment pension legislation. According to the government’s estimate, this change will result in an annual increase of EUR 4 million in patient insurance compensation costs, and this will result in a 10% increase in these patient insurance contributions for private health care providers, as well as municipalities. Mr President! The third point of pain is military pensions. The Committee on Defence gave an opinion that the legislative reform of military pensions has been somewhat inadequately prepared. The Committee on Defence rightly states that the item on military pension is only prepared in this legislative package from the point of view of pension policy. According to the performance, the retirement age of soldiers would increase at exactly the same rate as that of other workers over the years. According to the Committee on Defence, this pension reform does not take sufficient account of defence policy and operational aspects. Of course, this has been done mainly from the employment pension point of view. A particular concern of the Committee on Defence is the reduction of the reserve, which, in the event of war, could play a major role in the defence capability of our country. Mr President! When drawing up this report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health seriously considered this position of the Committee on Defence. However, our committee took the view that it was not in a position to start calling for further preparation from the Ministry in this context. On the other hand, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also felt that for those in military occupations, too, the general condition and working capacity of persons aged 60 years have improved in the same way as those in other jobs. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health believes that the gradual increase in the retirement age over the years will also give the Ministry of Defence time to determine how the threat of a reduction in the reserve can be avoided without high additional costs. Madam President! Finally, for years — from Ruka to Ruka’s snow — the effort has now almost been completed and the Finnish pension system has been secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u92	Mr President! Pension reform is a good example of what can be achieved by genuinely negotiating and agreeing. The government should learn from this approach, because even major changes can be made without threats and coercive measures. The objectives set out in this bill for pension reform are well realised. The aim is to extend working lives by extending the transition to old-age pension as the population's life expectancy increases. This is necessary because of the dependency ratio, the balance of public finances and the upward pressure on the earnings-related pension contribution. In addition, the aim is to ensure the financial sustainability of the system and to ensure an adequate pension level for the different age groups and to ensure intergenerational fairness. With the proposed changes, the target of raising the retirement age by at least 62.4 years agreed jointly between central government and labour market organisations in 2009 will be reached by 2023. In 2030, as a result of the reform, the expected retirement age will be almost 63 years. This is therefore a really good and important reform. On the other hand, however, we must remember that improving employment and preventing premature incapacity for work and promoting well-being at work are also essential for extending working lives. At the moment, Finland is facing an early disability pension at the age of 53 on average, and we need to find corrective measures to this end. Particularly worrying is the high number of premature disability pensions due to depression and mental disorders. In the prevention of incapacity for work, early intervention, preventive and supportive practices for well-being at work and timely care and rehabilitation are important. Unfortunately, government measures do not improve well-being at work. Kela's work capacity rehabilitation budget will be reduced, the rotation leave system will be tightened, sick leave and leave rights will be reduced and the opportunities for quality work will be reduced. For example, in nursing and nursing work, the greatest number of employees are currently exhausted by the conflict between professional identity and reality. In other words, work cannot be done as well as you would like and know how. The government's measures will increase group sizes in day care and reduce the size of personnel in the care of the elderly will further increase this contradiction and exhaust the workers. Here again, then, there is a serious contradiction between the government's words and actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u93	Värderade fru talman! Jag tänker bara beröra en del av hela det ox lagförslagspaket, nämligen lagförslag 13, bestammelsen om höjning av pensåldern för militärer, och hehävisar till försvarsutskottets enhälliga utlåtande i ärendet. Enligt utskottet så gjorde vi den bedömningen att militaristpensionssystemet harvi särdrag som avsevärt skiljer sig från det allmänna penssystemet och som anknyter till det militära försvaret, och att de inte alls har noteras i bedbetningen av propositionen. Därför ansåg och anser utskottet till den delen att propositionen är bristfälligt beredd och att man inte Heller tillräckligt har hört representanter för yrkesmilisärnas intresseorganisationer. Därför ansåg utskottet att ärrendet till den rai delen brode beredas på nowt för att hitt en ekonomiskt hållbar lösning på ett ätt sätt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u94	Mr President! As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen started out, I would also like to start by saying that this is now a good example of a joint agreement that will bring about a big and difficult decision that has, in fact, been brewing here over several parliamentary periods and yet has a significant impact on the sustainability gap. Long live, then, the common agreement, the negotiation and together finding solutions. Despite this big picture, it has been the most difficult thing for me personally to raise the retirement age, especially since I have seen so many of them weary of physical and heavy labour that I have not been able to demand any more years of work for them. Well, this new law now has a career pension to look for solutions to this issue. A career pension means that you have to have a long career in hard work, at least 38 years of work. The age must be at least 63 years, so this is a short solution before reaching the lowest retirement age. However, I must say that the expectation is that no large masses will be left on a career pension. Moreover, my own great concern is that this must not now become a new system in which insurance doctors are left with this policy of application, especially if it means more defending the system than the reality of its individual situation and needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u95	Mr President! Yes, one must agree to see how good things can be accomplished when one is doing things together. This issue of retirement has indeed been on the table here and has been on the table in this country for God knows how long, and it is good that this has now been achieved. What is a fact, however, is that Finland is ageing and people's lives are getting longer and that will probably require some sort of action in the future. You don't know what kind yet, but the more people we have retired, the harder it's gonna be to pay for it. I guess that's why these life expectancys have been put on the road. The good thing about this whole proposal is that it takes account of the fact that everyone is going to retire and in the future at an ever-increasing pace, that we now have the baby boomers at the age of age, the late 40s and the early 50s, that retirement age is knocking at the door. The military side is something that it would certainly be good to continue to pay attention to. Maybe we'll have to look at it again, I don't know, I wish I did anyway. But what I was particularly pleased about in this proposal is that it has now taken account of this ability to cope with working life. Personally, I have been a little concerned that this issue has not been discussed and has not been raised separately, that it is a fact that, when you do long hours, you have to take care of that too. What is good here is that the pension will be paid for all the work that is being done. Personally, I started to receive a pension for my work only at the age of 29, because the pension laws were then, even though I had been working for almost ten — a moment, eight — years in Yle by then. But that's how it was then. A very good and supported bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u96	Madam President! A successful change in the law that has been made together by agreeing on a triangulation. The retirement age will gradually increase. In accordance with the Employment Pensions Act, the minimum age of the obligation to exercise influence is calculated for employees at the age of 17 years. The aim of the pension reform is, among other things, to extend working life by extending the transition to old-age pension as the population's life expectancy increases, and this is due to the dependency ratio, the balance of public finances and the upward pressure on labour pension contributions. The idea is to ensure, among other things, the financial sustainability of our system, to ensure adequate pension levels for different age groups and to ensure intergenerational justice. Very good goals. When it comes to raising the length of working lives, I would also like to highlight the development of working life, the prevention of disability and the improvement of well-being at work. In all of these we have an infinite amount of work to do. Early intervention, preventive and supportive work practices and timely care and rehabilitation play a major role in achieving the objectives pursued by this law. Also in workplaces, different working units play a major role in the ability of employees to cope with this length of working lives. But political decisions also have a role to play. I would like to say to Mr Tolppanen that there will be no more years of work by forcing, dictating, reducing vacation rights, reducing wages and coming to work sick in the future when these government packages are being implemented. In other words, these are measures taken by the current government, and they are terribly ill-suited to working life and to the fact that we also get more hours in working life, more years of work. On the contrary, we should develop and be concerned that our workers will be able to work longer than forced and dictated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u97	Madam President! I am surprised at the fact that the Social Democrats believe that there is no need to pay attention to well-being at work, that there is no need to ensure that people are able to work. Surely this is the most important thing in the world of work and the fact that when you work, whether young or old, you can do full-time work, full-year working or full-time working. It is a very good thing that this legislative proposal has given specific attention to this issue. It will help each of us to move forward and reach retirement age. If the retirement age rises — yes, it is just the case that we have to take a little sense at this point — then the fact is that if we do not have people working, then we do not have people paying those pensions. We will live much older than our mothers lived and what our grandmothers lived, and the next generation that grows will live even longer than we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u98	Madam President! Well-being at work is an extremely important issue for us Social Democrats. That is something I also called for in my own speech. When we talk about raising the length of working careers and about making people stay longer at work, we really need these work-life development projects. We must do everything we can to keep people on the job for as long as possible, not because they are on disability pension at the age of thirty — for some reason, perhaps related to political decisions, but it may also be related to the atmosphere and the doing of that job. So both political decisions and that working environment have a big role to play in this. Everything we can do with political decisions must be done for and for improving well-being at work. And that is why I myself raised the point that these cannot be achieved by forcing, dictating, reducing wages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u99	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u100	Madam President! As a whole, this joint legislative proposal at hand is excellent — thanks for that. However, I must admit that, as such, I am a little concerned by this increase in the military retirement age with regard to our defence system and our border security. However, I would not go overboard with these effects, as Mrs Blomqvist did slightly in her speech. Those who have served in military posts will remain in the reserve until they reach their 60th birthday, and now this two - year increase in retirement age will reduce the reserve of professional soldiers by some 600 persons. This reserve is, of course, extremely important to our defence capability, above all in situations where we have to increase our readiness. Now, of course, we need to look at how this defence capability can be secured in all situations and how we need to ensure that the reserve of professional soldiers is sufficient. Of course, it is very natural that this could be achieved, for example, by raising the reserve age ceiling. And we must also see to it that the people who are in that reserve are fit for service, able for as long as possible, and now that we have discussed the very important issue of well-being at work, it is also important that we take care of that well-being of our reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u101	Mr President! We must continue to work, and that is what we all agree on. But we must bear in mind that this average retirement age is considerably reduced by these very early disability pensions, and it is precisely by improving well-being at work that too early retirement can be reduced very effectively. Mr Tolppanen said that the maintenance and well-being at work of this law are well taken into account, but the other measures taken by the government will then work in the opposite direction: for example, cuts in rehabilitation appropriations, reductions in work-linked leave, reduced sick leave rights, reduced working conditions will then threaten to undermine well-being and well-being at work. That is what I meant in my speech: words and actions go in a different direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u102	Mr Tolppanen has the floor for a reply, and then Mr Kari is preparing for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u103	Madam President! Is it wrong, then, that this law takes into account well-being at work? After all, this is incomprehensible: if we have one good law on which everyone thinks so, then the opposition must find barking in it. This is incomprehensible. So you would like to remove the element of well-being and working life from this, while the government has wanted to bring these things up, so that people can do better in working life, so that people can keep up to retirement age, so that they remain healthy and able to work throughout their working lives. That is something that has now been specifically addressed in this draft law and has been raised here. I find it incomprehensible that there seems to be a tendency here to take this too. I have to say that I do not understand the Socialist position on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u104	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u105	Madam President! I am not going to take a stand on the skill of Mr Tolppanen's heard understanding, but at least it became very clear to me how the social democrats view well-being at work. Even Mr Tolppanen believes that there is hardly any major change in the line of action here. However, I am speaking as Vice-President of the Committee on Defence and I am expressing the concern expressed by the Committee on Defence in its joint opinion on this particular military pension scheme. We have a general military service based on a broad pool of reserve, and our defence system is based precisely on a sustainable reserve. It cannot be expected that the performance of soldiers will be maintained in those military tasks when they grow old, just as they do in younger age. The work is demanding and burdensome, and the Committee on Defence also made this point very clear in its opinion. That is why I propose that during the transition period the effects of this pension change on the Defence Forces' tasks be carefully monitored and calculated in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u106	Mr President! On the other hand, I do not understand why Mr Tolppanen deliberately wants to misunderstand me. I do not want to remove anything from this law, this is a very good law. But I would like the government to take the same account in other legislative work of promoting well-being at work, as now these other government decisions go in the direction of reducing well-being at work. This is not the law. I used to talk about legislative work this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u107	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u108	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little confused because I thought that it is usually the custom in these cases for the chairman of the committee to present them in some way when they come here for the first reading, but nothing, to move forward. We are now dealing with the Government's proposal to amend the Railway Act and the Railway Act. The referral debate has already shown across party boundaries, including those of government and opposition, that there are challenges and dangers in this proposal. Timo Korhonen, a representative from the Centre Party, mentioned in his speech that he was surprised by the rapid introduction of the bill to Parliament. He also called for the soundness of this proposal for Finnish rail transport. He concluded by saying: "Probably free tendering would lead to competitors coming to take cream off the top, and then the question is how to manage the sparsely populated areas of Finland." Laura Huhtasaari also said in her own speech in this referral debate that we should not open up internal passenger traffic to new operators. He goes on to say: "It must be taken into account that if we open up the railways to competition, there will certainly be new entrepreneurs for the busiest sections of the line. VR has been able to maintain the services of remote areas with the profits of just busier sections of the railway line. If that profit is given to private, probably foreign companies, VR will have nothing but loss-making lines." Madam President! We Social Democrats also see a great risk that operators entering the market will concentrate only on a few productive sections of the track and that the state operator will manage the low-profit shares. We genuinely wonder what will happen to sparsely populated areas, who will deal with them in the future, whether anyone will. We want Finland to ensure that rail connections are maintained throughout the country. After the committee was consulted, there were quite a few outstanding questions: What will be done in the future with regard to terminals and railway yards, among other things, with possible charges? After this change, what will happen to the development of the network and possible new investments? Who takes responsibility for the whole with regard to the customer perspective, i.e. the important service users we work on here in the house? Questions also arise as to how rail charges are to be levied and whether additional charges can be levied on railway network and environmentally friendly equipment, among other things. There is still a risk of different prices for different operators. It is also noteworthy that Russian equipment is subject to different legislation in Finland than our existing equipment. All in all, healthy competition is to be welcomed, but Finland will continue to need effective rail transport, and we know of countries in which relatively moderate training has been paid for privatization. I feel that we should avoid them and, most importantly, prevent cream peeling from the transport system, which has, however, been heavily subsidized by public funds, the taxpayers' euro. We have tabled an objection to this government proposal in committee, which involves not only the SDP but also the Left Alliance and the Greens, so at second reading we will be rejecting this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u109	Mr President! When I was chairman of the committee, I took my apocalypse from that opening speech. But this in itself is quite simple. This is the technical part of the 4th railway package in the EU, which has already been implemented in most of Europe, and Finland will be on the trail here as if it has not acted very quickly as the EU wishes. Now this is being carried out, and indeed this is the wreckage proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u110	Madam President! Indeed, the fourth railway package in the EU is leading to the opening up of competition on the railways, and Finland too must be moving forward in this process. But for that speech by Mr Taimela. It raised a lot of questions, and there were open questions and threats created. The question is how well this competition on the railways can be opened in Finland, how well we are able to learn about failures in other countries where this has been done, how well these tendering routes, for example, are packaged: whether they are packaged in such a way that there are profitable routes but also less profitable routes in the same package. This will ensure that the transport package that we have in this country makes sense to carry out on the tracks. On the other hand, it is good to remind you that even unprofitable traffic has its limits. Someone always pays for the unprofitable traffic — in connection with this debate on purchasing traffic, it is good to point out that someone always pays for the unprofitable traffic. And where is the limit, how much is it being made available to other sections of the line or to taxpayers of other modes of transport, and what is the whole? What matters to people is that people get to move. Not so much that it should be the most important thing, but that people should be able to move between them reliably, cheaply and safely on some means of transport that will then guarantee them this service. And here we should move forward, get away from these links to instruments, and more here, to this technological neutrality. In other words, we need not just commit ourselves to the train, but transport can also be organised by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u111	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Railway Act and the Railway Act to implement the European Parliament and Council Directive on a Single European Railway Area at national level. In fact, Finland is already a little late in the process, and it is urgent to implement this. It has already been implemented in many other EU countries and we are in a hurry. In that committee, there has been an objection from the SDP, the Left and the Greens. In fact, this government proposal does not explicitly contain provisions on the opening up of competition for national rail passenger services. They will be quite different if and when they come to the debate, so that in practice this objection has nothing to do with this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u112	Mr President! Many of these speeches have made it clear that the EU is being called upon to do so and that we must do so. I believe, however, that we should be critical in Finland that the EU is nothing like it, that without criticism we must accept everyone. In Finland, we must think about our national interests. We all know what kind of country Finland is, what kind of transport connections we have here. We cannot be compared, for example, with the countries of Central Europe and their rail transport. I think we should also think more about what we want in Finland to have public services and what is business. Now we're going forward and forward all the time. So when we all know what the current debate is about, for example, Posti — whether it is a public service or a business — do we have transport connections, mobility throughout Finland and the viability of all regions, in this case rail transport, public service or business? We are also talking about social and health services. Are they public services or are they business? And until when do we draw this line all the time? Are we next talking about the need for local water utilities to be competitive, whether it is public service or business, that people get clean water? So I would also like to have a discussion about what we now consider to be a public service in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u113	Mr President! A representative of whom I very much appreciate. The trout there referred to my own speech, which I apparently gave in connection with this bill’s referral debate sometime in the early summer, before the summer break. Quite rightly, I must confess that I was surprised that the bill came very, very quickly. But then there was a reference to the fact that at the time I estimated that this bill would have something to do with the competition for passenger train services. I am very pleased that the committee has now stated quite clearly: 'The committee states that, according to the report it has received, the proposal under discussion does not contain specific provisions on the opening up of competition in national rail passenger transport.' I say this with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u114	Mr President! If I take the chairman's hat out of my head for a moment and receive as a representative of the Finnish Parliament. Mr Tavitsainen pointed out that not everything should be accepted directly from the point of view of the EU. I'm happy to say hello to this. True, it is nice to see that someone else is paying attention to the problems in the EU than the Finns in Finland. This is a rather glaring start, because this is a wreck proposal: it does not implement nationally what the rest of the EU has jointly agreed and already implemented in most of Europe. It is a fairly radical solution at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u115	Madam President! As a very personal point of view, Minister, as regards the current plans for rail transport at all, I would ask the Minister to reflect on these specific reductions which are coming, or perhaps they may be offered to individuals for driving, such as the Vaasa-Säinäjoki basin. Vaasa is almost the only export-driven city in this country, it is a growing city, we have an energy cluster. We need good and well-functioning transport connections, both air links and rail connections, and we need to be able to keep them there. Workers must get to work and then get to live in the province. Vaasa also provides a great deal of support for its surroundings, some of which are the town of Vaasa, but also for the people of environmental communities, and for that it is very important to keep in mind the areas of attraction we have and not to kill them like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u116	Madam President! Just as Mrs Korhonen did in her own speech, I am pleased to welcome the committee's position that this proposal does not now include these questions relating to the opening-up of passenger transport. Mr Taavitsainen made an excellent speech here — thank you for that. It is extremely important that, now that we are negotiating at European Union level – from there, of course, we will have binding legislation – we as Finns should learn to ask about it from the point of view of the EU, not so much whether we can do this, but how we can do this. This should be the question whenever this binding legislation from the EU comes and comes into our national legislation and then implements it, because, in general, the European legislation is such that it leaves a very large national margin, which I believe should be used much more widely than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u117	Madam President! Indeed, this is a technical part which is already preparing for the opening-up of competition in the future, taking these factors into account. In fact, it would be very desirable, of course, for those passenger transport lines to be able to continue with the current operator VR over the next year, but then to prepare carefully for the opening-up of competition. I believe these operators are certainly on their way. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister what interest is there on this side, although this is indeed a technical aspect which creates the conditions for opening up competition. I would see that, of course, bus transport can replace a lot, but then we will get a double result if we have both good bus transport and then that rail transport will continue to work. Then we will have a double profit in this respect and, in fact, public transport in rural areas could improve in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u118	Madam President! Indeed, this is a technical proposal in accordance with this fourth EU railway package. We have already had a number of legislative changes in this direction, including a transfer to the Kymenlaakso Vocational School in the railway sector. In the past it was only internal training for VR, now it is possible for others. There has also been regulation regarding the use of private tracks and their compensation, and it is good that provision is made for us to have a proper regulatory base. But then there are these private operators who are considering entering the sector, and, for example, on this freight side, it has been a very long time and it has been very difficult for them to come there, of course, with regard to the purchase of equipment and this special rail gauge and so on. But their message has been that they are able to provide this same service up to 25% cheaper than what VR’s services currently cost. It is already, if it is true, a huge cost saving, which can be passed on to our industry, for example. At the moment, the high cost to the export industry is transport costs, and if we can get something out of it by getting a wider service on the tracks too, then of course the opportunity must be looked at and considered. All in all, we need to develop and increase rail transport, because it exists and that network needs maximum benefit, and we also need to make rail investments so that the additional investments that will be made improve the benefits that can be gained from the use of the rail network and increase rail transport as an environmentally friendly mode of transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u119	Madam President! It is interesting to listen to this final debate, especially the idea raised by Mr Jokise that a private person could do as much as 25% less. I would like to ask you what this is based on, because at the moment rail transport is regulated at EU level in terms of both fleet and staff training. So whether there is a private or a state that works, it has to have the same level of equipment, the same training for the staff, and when the union of locomotivemen has a universally binding collective agreement, for example for locomotive drivers, then at least it has to pay the same, but can pay more. This great business idea of OnniBus has been acclaimed here — the latest information is that it will generate a loss of 6 million this year. In other words, in practice it is very likely that it will be the same as for Ryanair, who came to Tampere with the noise, Mr Alatalo. This winter, no Ryanair aircraft will fly from there, it has been cancelled. And it was said that now has become a great Finnair option for Ryanair, which cheaply and cheaply takes people across Europe. Logistics always cost, and the costs are roughly the same. But I admit that when I've been working for VR for 30 years and at head office for several years, there is something to be developed in the administration and also in the systems. I would like to ask the Minister, when he was brought here so hastily, and the Ministry of Transport and Communications too was quick to deal with it: why has this been taken so quickly? We will have public transport on the whole next year, and here we will be taking advantage of the opening up of rail transport in Europe. And when the Finns always said that Finland should not always be a forerunner and a model student, now you, Chairman Jalonen, are taking this matter forward in the forefront. If that previous logic had been followed, then, of course, we should have expected other countries to open this debate. And we will have an interim debate next week, and I hope that we will have a broad and thorough debate on transport policy in general, but also on this rail transport in particular, and I believe that it will be very colorful.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u120	Madam President! Mr Wallin, with that solid experience and professionalism in the railway sector — which I very much appreciate, I know him and I know is a strong professional with a long experience — used that speech to highlight this one point that I raised in my speech, namely that companies entering the railway sector have announced that they can offer this service at a price of up to 25% lower. It is not what I came up with, but it was an estimate that was presented last season in the expert consultation of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and these actors have also set up their business plans, and yes there must be something behind it — I do not know what details they are, what is included in that calculation, but such expert information and assessment of the Committee on Transport and Tourism has been given last season. Of course, that raises the question of whether this is possible, and if it is possible, I see a great opportunity to reduce the transport costs of the Finnish export industry, if possible. But we must also see this opening up of rail transport to competition as an opportunity. It may also be possible that, if the lines that currently do not have traffic are cost-effectively organised, it will also support VR's trunk traffic, it can serve as feeder traffic there, or, on the freight side, they will, as it were, be put together in terminals, such as larger terminals than timber, and then the feed can work on that larger whole and then move on. So, yes, we need to look at these possibilities that this might offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u121	There were requests for answers. Representative Särnä first, and then there will be others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u122	Madam President! I would have slightly corrected this information brought here by Mrs Wallin that OnniBus had lost EUR 6 million. In fact, the company’s business was loss-making of EUR 1.1 million and its total turnover was EUR 6.7 million. Of course, it must now be noted in this review that this start-up and kick-start of business from almost nothing has been a very massive and expensive operation that affects this result. And we must also rely on the information given by OnniBus that all its routes are profitable at the moment. So, yes, this is like a positive company.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u123	Madam President! This government proposal implements the European Railway Area Directive in Finland and aims, among other things, to promote the competitiveness of rail transport, facilitate market entry, ensure fair access to transport related services and reform of rail charging regulation. Mrs Wallin, what bad things are these? Why is the SDP against such things? When you said that this has been a matter of urgency, that this has been brought in in haste, in fact, this matter, this government proposal, has already been prepared in the previous Parliament and it has already been discussed there. And when you said that Finland is in the vanguard of exporting this to Europe, that is not true. Finland is actually in the aftermath
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u124	Two more replies, Mr Alatalo and Mr Wallin Harry, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u125	Madam President! Indeed, Mrs Wallin, when the name was mentioned, must be answered. I myself have been making money for Tampere-Pirkkala's second terminal, and it has been a real shame that Ryanair is now doing this. Of course, they do business logic. But I would argue that it is also up to the subscriber, i.e. how the ministry supervises those operators, how they operate, and of course the low-cost bus and low-cost airlines have the same logic, they are also trying in a way to play down the playoffs, but such low-cost companies must of course be monitored — they have social responsibility — that they also operate and pay wages here in the country. In any case, the EU requires competition to be opened up, and, as Mrs Torniainen said here, there are only three countries besides Finland, which have not yet opened up competition in passenger transport. Sweden has opened up and there has been no disaster, so that in my view we must try out private operators and give them the opportunity to act in such a way that, for example, we can give them a piece of the same route, so that they can also drive the less profitable part. So, in this sense, I would like to go a little abroad, look forward and take an example from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Mr Kärnä for correcting the information, that is quite in order. I would just like to point out that we must now remember that VR’s profit for 2013 was EUR 100 million, of which the State took most as dividends. Last year it was EUR 30 million, and I think it was taken as a whole from the state budget, which means that VR has produced very well for its owner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u129	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u130	Mr President! I asked to speak — perhaps the V button would have been correct. Something raised this point that it would be 25 percent cheaper, and he also used the expression that there was not always a need to use the tracks. I am a little surprised, though, and I would like the Minister to be able to answer that. However, when the state investment has built the tracks to serve Finland as a whole and to serve the people, I guess it is not going to be this way of thinking that we do not always have to use the tracks. However, knowing that rail transport is very cost-effective and environmentally friendly and makes it possible for people in the provinces to work and visit and study, to travel both south and north and east and west, we are not now going to do this in Finland, so that we do not always have to use those tracks. I think, at least, that as many tracks as possible can be used, and that double tracks will also be built where necessary in those places where the tracks are completely blocked. Then to the point that some individual pieces would be profitable and even 25% cheaper. However, it must be taken into account that VR has this obligation to manage this public transport throughout Finland and there are certainly unprofitable routes that will then become a loss. Would any private person take such an obligation upon himself? We should not take any individual pieces from there and compare it with the cost and say that companies
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u131	Mr President! So here I am, as President, correcting these matters a little bit. This has certainly not been rushed. So this has not come quickly, as Mrs Wallin said, but has actually been on the committee's table for a long time and has been on the table for a long time. During the last period, the EU railway package number four was dealt with, and this is a technical part of it. As I am sure Mrs Wallin and others will find in the report a good report on the timetable for the implementation of this directive, which has been at this rate, so I say here that the deadline for national implementation is 15 June 2015, i.e. 15 June 2015. It's been a deadline, and we've had to put this thing in order. Then, when Mrs Wallin also said that this competitive situation really brings work to Finland, this is particularly good news for those who have been made redundant from VR, that at some point this competition will open up and there will be alternative jobs, i.e. jobs over the board. After all, this market is open, whether it likes it or not, on the basis of last season's decision. This is therefore an extension of last season's decision, the extension of the railway package 4 and its technical part, which in itself makes no mention of opening up competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u132	Mr President! It's been a good conversation. When I was in the Committee on Transport and Communications for eight years, we had a good spirit there, and I believe that good solutions will be found in the present Committee on Transport and Communications, because it is important for us at national level that we have logistics, passenger transport and freight transport. There is no opposition or government front. This is quite clear, and I would like this good spirit, which, I believe, is even now, to continue and look together at these things. Well, let me just go over some more things. In 2007, when the EU required national freight transport to be opened up to competition, we — I was in committee then — made EU legislation. Before that, international freight transport within Europe had already been opened, and then this national transport was opened in 2007. Since then, only the first freight carrier Fenniarail has ordered three locomotives, and then there will also be factory-specific freight interchanges on the eastern border. So it's been in place, that's what's been done. And now, of course, this reform of the transport systems has quickly been initiated by the current government and this opening up of competition in passenger transport has been the subject of this. In my view, the speech by Mr Lehonen was good in that we are in the same line. It cannot be as it was suggested during Kimmo Sas's ministerial period that the road open up to heaven, over a hundred years VR's assets — equipment, wagons, locomotives, terminals, service tracks and locomotive garages — should suddenly be taken into state ownership and then rented at a certain or lowest price. This cannot be done. As President Jalonen said — and I agree — there must be more shifts, more contacts besides the current ones — I do not remember the professor who said when this debate took place that this should be the case — and, of course, more equipment. This results in fair competition, good competition and better services for citizens. If the monopoly changes to the monopoly, it is no added value, and I believe that this will be discussed very late next Tuesday until the evening. So now that VR finished 34 train shifts on 28 October, i.e. by its own decision, the owner guidance was not even missing a bit, I made a written question, it was said that there was no interference, and then in March the many connections between the regions in Finland ended, so it is surprising that the central prime minister and the central transport minister are stopping the train traffic between the entire connections between the regions in Finland. Okay, let entrepreneurs come, but I think it won't be too soon. Mr President! With these thoughts, we'll be looking at next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u133	Madam President! Just a few comments on this debate. This has been mentioned in the speeches, at least in Mr Jokisen's case, that we do not have to commit ourselves to this train alone or to the development of train traffic, or that the train is not the only alternative to this travel. I agree with him in that sense that we do not need to, but when we talk about public transport, bus and coach transport is, in terms of time and the environment, a very different form of transport from a train on the rail, and I believe that both modes of transport will, of course, continue to be necessary. Mr Jokinen pointed out that rail investments should continue to be made in Finland — I do not think that anyone in this Chamber would disagree with that. The only thing is that when the existing government and future governments find euros to give our tracks more drinks and those euros, because the biggest problem we have at the moment on the rail side is that — which becomes this uncertainty and the fact that people do not trust trains — we are going on one track. We do not have this dual track opportunity, and this creates uncertainty about these timetables and the reliability of the train in travel times and journeys. However, I would like to say that although there is so much assurance here that this is not going on any market-based traffic on the basis of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the gateways to driving this market-based traffic to us in Finland, we are not going anywhere. On the other hand, I want us to look these things in the eye and really look them in the eye and be realistic and transparent about what decisions we are making. On behalf of Mr Tolppa, I would have liked to thank him for appealing to the regional rail transport system. - Now we're running out of time. Healthy competitiveness is also welcome for the Social Democrats, and healthy competition situations,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u134	And then, Minister, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u135	Mr President! A government proposal to amend the Railway and Railway Act would implement nationally the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Single European Railway Area, the so-called Railway Market Directive. This should have been implemented nationally by 15 June 2015, so we are already four and a half months behind the deadline set in the directive. The laws proposed by the Government are purely implementing laws of Union law. From this point of view, I find it difficult to understand the differing views expressed in the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications. The EU directive, and even the implementing regulations adopted under it, have been adopted and we now need to transpose into national law in order to fulfil our EU membership obligations as well as other Member States. Almost all other EU Member States have already done so. The regulation of the legislative proposals also allows the infrastructure manager to introduce different charging steps, which, inter alia, encourage the reduction of noise pollution, the improvement of railway safety and the development of new services. These reductions or increases will allow the infrastructure manager to steer the market and operate, but may also be required to introduce them and will not be legally imposed. In addition, the infrastructure manager may, if the market so permits, charge additional charges for certain additional or specific services. Such additional services include, for example, monitoring of the transport of dangerous goods and assisting specialised transport. In principle, the pricing principles of the bill are based on the fact that the fee can cover the costs of maintaining the network. In other words, costs are always channelled to users, as required by the objection. As regards the neutrality of terminals, private tracks and the network, it has been explicitly stated in the Railway Market Directive and in the Government's proposal that these services must be provided on equal terms for all and for fair compensation. There are no legal barriers to entry into the rail passenger and freight market at present. Therefore, even this government proposal does not open up any new services market to competition but only implements, at national level, the obligations required by Union law to ensure fair access to services and payment criteria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u136	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u137	Madam President! This bill proposes to amend the Municipal Structures Act. The Municipality Structure Act would be repealed with regard to the implementation of the municipal reform, including the obligation for municipalities to investigate mergers, the conditions for the clearing obligation and the deadlines for the surveys. The provisions on financial support for the reunification of municipalities would be amended as a result of the repeal of the abovementioned provisions. In order to pay the association grant, it would no longer be necessary for the municipal assembly proposal to fulfil the conditions for clearing areas and deadlines for settlements. As the obligation of municipalities to investigate the unification of municipalities would cease, the provisions on clearing grants would also be repealed. It is also proposed to repeal the provision on the protection of staff from dismissal for five years in the event of changes to the municipality. However, the termination protection rule would apply to municipal mergers that entered into force before 2016. In 2016 and subsequent municipal mergers, staff would not have legal protection for five years. In addition, the entry into force of the Act amending and temporarily amending the Local Government Act concerning the provisions of the Municipal Structures Act proposed to be repealed in this proposal would be repealed. First of all, the repeal of the provisions on compulsory clearing: the obligation to clarify municipal mergers is, in terms of criteria and deadlines, bound up with the adoption of the law on the organisation of social services in Parliament. According to Prime Minister Sipilä's government programme, the reform of social welfare and health care is now based on larger autonomous municipalities. Consequently, the link between the Municipal Structures Act and the reform of social welfare and health care has been broken as a result of this policy. In this respect, the Administrative Committee also considers it justified to repeal the provisions on the criteria and time limits of the municipal structure law. Municipal reunification grants are temporary under the current provisions. For this reason, the Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that voluntary reunification of municipalities should also be supported on the basis of separate legislation to be adopted in the future and, if necessary, also through budget-based funding, such as discretionary grants. This is particularly important for crisis groups in particular. In addition, the Committee considers it important for the willingness of municipalities to unite to ensure that the change in the structure of municipalities does not result in the loss of central government shares. Well, then this repeal of the provisions on the protection of staff from dismissal and the protection of dismissal: This Government proposal proposes to repeal Article 29(2) of the Municipal Structures Act, which includes provisions on the special five-year protection of staff in the event of changes to the municipal division. According to the article, the new municipality may not lay off staff for a period of five years from the entry into force of the change on productive and economic grounds. However, according to the Government's proposal, municipal mergers that will enter into force in 2016 and 2017 would not be subject to the protection of employees' dismissal under the entry into force and transition provisions, nor, in this respect, to the terms of the association agreement which the municipalities have decided before the entry into force of the present draft law. However, the committee has stated that the law will not enter into force until the beginning of December this year. This is why next year's combined municipalities will not be able to change the association agreements if they so wish, in accordance with this bill. The Administrative Committee has also found that the draft government proposal submitted in the consultation of the municipalities differs from the government proposal under discussion. In the draft opinion, it has been assumed that special statutory protection against dismissal would not be abolished until the municipal mergers that will enter into force in 2017. Taking into account the various factors involved, the Administrative Committee has decided, on the basis of an overall assessment, that, in the case of municipal mergers that will still take effect in 2016, staff will retain the special protection for dismissal within the meaning of Article 29(2) of the Municipal Structures Act in force. That is why the Administrative Committee proposes to amend the entry into force and transitional provisions of the first draft law. The changes proposed by the Administrative Committee therefore mean that special protection against dismissal related to the unification of municipalities will only be addressed in respect of mergers of municipalities that will enter into force in 2017. Therefore, on the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the Administrative Committee considers this proposal to be necessary and appropriate. In other words, the committee is in favour of the adoption of the first legislative proposal as amended and the adoption of the second legislative proposal without amendment of the opinion on the report. Mr President! This report then includes Mrs Blomqvist's objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u138	Madam President! The Administrative Committee found that the draft of the Government’s proposal in the consultation of the municipalities was different from the government’s proposal under discussion. The draft opinion was based on the assumption that special statutory protection against dismissal would not be abolished until 2017 in future municipal mergers. However, this was not the case in practice. In the opinion of the Administrative Committee, the municipalities had been asked for an opinion on a draft that was substantially different from that of the Government. In view of the timing of the legislative proposal, it was not possible to carry out a new duly organised consultation. As the Vice-President of the Administrative Committee stated earlier, taking into account the various circumstances of the case, the Administrative Committee has decided, on the basis of its overall assessment, that, in the case of municipal mergers which will still take effect in 2016, the staff will retain the special protection provided for in Article 29(2) of the Municipal Structures Act in force, and I welcome this. It is good that the government has changed its proposal, because laws must be adopted on the basis of actual and well-founded statements and reports. Local government employees, including us in Lahti and Nastola, have been strongly involved in municipal mergers decided this year, which will enter into force from the beginning of 2016, next year. It would have been a wrong message for municipal workers to adopt a law that is very close to retroactive, which would have drawn the carpet from local government workers, even though they have also made their own efforts to enable municipal mergers in the course of next year when the current legislation was in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u139	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Korhonen and Mr Kari, for their excellent contributions. Having worked in committee itself in this way, it makes great sense to see that this committee's work can also have a real impact. I think it is extremely important that the government's proposal now submitted respects local self-government, municipal democracy and, for example, renounces this obligation of forced settlement. The starting point of the previous government was that municipal boundaries would not be covered by municipal self-government, and I am extremely pleased that this government has recognised that municipal boundaries are covered by municipal self-government. The abolition of the protection against dismissal is also an important decision, from the point of view of the former municipal director. It makes it possible to develop the functions of the municipalities that are now merged in the best possible way so that they can provide the basic services they need in a cost-effective way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u140	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 7/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u141	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u142	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u143	Madam President! This proposal of the Board of Directors proposes that the law on an open company and a limited partnership be amended in such a way that, in the case of a legal person acting as an associate of an open company or as a partner of a limited partnership and a silent partner of a limited partnership, the terms of the company contract may be binding for a period of more than 10 years. It is also proposed that the partners of the open company and the limited partnership can agree more flexibly on the dissolution of the company and the redemption of the partner's stake. It is also proposed to amend the Act in such a way that an open company and a limited partnership are born after the company has been registered. In addition, provisions are proposed on the minimum content of the contract between an open company and a limited partnership. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that this draft law be adopted without amendment. The committee believes that the proposed changes to the requirement for registration of a partnership must be based on a written agreement that meets certain minimum conditions, clarify the current legal situation and improve legal certainty. To some extent, the administrative burden will increase with the entry into force of changes in the company contract and form of enterprise only from registration and not from the conclusion of the contract. The committee considers the administrative burden of the new requirements to be reasonable compared to the benefits to be achieved. Moreover, according to the study received, this does not result in a significant delay in time. The committee has also considered the proposed flexibility for current regulation to be justified. They may, inter alia, promote the use of the form of partnerships in the venture capital sector. Comments have also been raised on the further development of company law. The report has raised two areas requiring further clarification: 1) With regard to the new legal effects of registration, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the possible effects of the proposal on the tax procedure. It is important for the committee to clarify separately whether, for example, changes in the distribution of profits between partners will have a fiscal impact, as at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, or only on the registration of changes. 2) Comments on the further development of company law have also been raised in the course of the proceedings. The committee is in favour of further clarification as to whether the existing company law structures fully support the current needs of the market, such as the promotion of collective investment. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u144	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 7/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u145	Madam President! This proposal of the Board of Directors proposes to provide for a law on the annual auditor's fee and quality control fees. In addition, it is proposed to amend Chapter 11 Section 2 of the Audit Act so that HT auditors and JHTT auditors pay the basic annual fee. According to the proposal, the KHT and JHT auditors and audit firms and JHTs would pay a separate additional annual fee in addition to the base annual fee. In addition to the annual fee, auditors, audit firms, JHTT auditors and JHTT entities would be charged a basic quality control fee as well as a quality assurance fee for auditors of public-interest entities. The annual fee and the fees for quality control should be considered as taxes by constitutional law. The law would also lay down the basis for the tax liability and the amount of the tax and the legal protection of the taxable person. The fees would be determined and collected by the Patent and Registration Board. The revenue from annual fees and supervisory fees would be recognised as gross revenue in the central government budget. The budget would allocate an equivalent amount to the Board of Patents and Registration. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of laws in accordance with the Government's proposal as unaltered. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the objectives of the Government's proposal to create a simple and fair system for the payment of auditors' controls, while drawing attention to the following points: There is a question of the source of funding in relation to the resources of the supervisory action. The Board of Patents and Registration, to which the oversight of auditors has just been transferred, is a net budgeted State agency for almost all of its activities, which means that the costs of each activity are covered by the fees charged to its users. According to the Government's proposal, annual costs are expected to remain unchanged at around EUR 2.4 million. As the transfer of activities from one organisation to another is likely to entail some unforeseen, one-off costs, inter alia, due to technical information systems, premises and similar circumstances, the Economic Committee considers it justified that the cost calculation has been prepared in accordance with the precautionary principle for at least the first year of operation in 2016. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy shares the view expressed in the expert consultation that the resources of control and, consequently, the costs must be appropriate in relation to the benefits of controls. The workload and costs of auditing must be monitored and, if necessary, legislative changes introduced. The Committee would point out that, in any case, reliable auditing requires credible supervision, which in turn cannot be carried out without appropriate resources. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also points out that the monitoring of the functioning of the reorganization of audit supervision must cover the whole control system. This means that, in addition to monitoring the workload, the appropriateness of the payment criteria must also be assessed in the context of the monitoring. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u146	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u147	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Consumer Safety Act so that the current supervision of consumer safety by municipalities is made public to the Safety and Chemicals Agency. The steering role of the Regional State Administrative Agencies on consumer safety oversight would also be removed. This amendment would remove consumer safety oversight and related legislation from the whole of environmental health care, while reviewing the Health Care Act. It is also proposed to remove the obligation for new operators providing certain consumer services to notify their activities to the Authority before starting operations. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of legislative proposals in line with the Government's proposal as unaltered. The changes proposed by the Government aim to achieve two main objectives: reducing the administrative burden on business by deregulation and reducing the tasks of municipalities. With the change in the body responsible for the safety of consumer services, a major change in the way in which controls are carried out is envisaged. The main focus of the Government's proposal will be shifted from point-by-point revisions to improving the guidelines for operators, influencing the safety culture and processes and preventing problematic situations. The new approach is expected to achieve greater effectiveness with lower human resources. At present, the safety oversight of consumer services has been dispersed between different authorities in a way that is not considered appropriate for the objectives of effectiveness. According to experts consulted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, due to the abundance and variety of items to be monitored under the current approach, the resources currently allocated to control cannot effectively guarantee the coverage of control measures and the geographical equal treatment of operators. Moreover, supervisory reporting has not functioned optimally. The decentralisation of control resources has also been seen to be problematic in terms of maintaining the professional skills of the officials carrying out these tasks. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that the assessment made is justified that the best impact can be achieved by allocating resources to the control of the most likely sites identified as a result of risk assessments. One of the objectives of the current government is to facilitate the pursuit of economic activities through deregulation. The Government proposal proposes to repeal the obligation of the operator to notify the authorities when it intends to provide the services referred to in Article 6 of the Consumer Safety Act. These include the provision of amusement parks, gyms, experiences or nature services. However, in view of the specific risks to consumers, it is necessary to maintain a legal provision requiring service providers in these sectors to draw up a safety document describing the specific characteristics of the activity, the risks involved and a description of their preparedness. This security document referred to in the law may also be drawn up as part of a rescue or similar plan. The Government’s proposal proposes to transfer the existing Article 6 list to Article 7(1), which regulates the safety document. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposed amendment to be a balanced and step in the right direction, taking into account, on the one hand, the objectives of reducing the administrative burden on business operators and, on the other hand, the aim of legislation to influence the safety of consumer services. This report is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u148	Mr President! Now that we have the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy here, I cannot help but say: When I read this committee's text, I felt a little confused that when we were talking about the consumer issue, however, the text became such that, here in particular, it would improve the position of the trader or reduce the regulation. But what is the position of the consumer? In other words, how the information of a normal Finnish consumer improves as to where he can contact if he can get help in these problems. There have already been a lot of shortcomings in this area since the work has been carried out. Perhaps the organization has been so big and drowned in it by that one consumer ombudsman and people have not really found that channel or there have been too many tasks to do. In other words, is it possible to find out how, however, the status of the ordinary consumer can be improved in such a way as to provide assistance in the event of problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u149	Yes, this proposal from the government has precisely been based on the fact that consumer activity is also simple and equally easy. Consumer safety and its control are currently very fragmented, and now this side of the body has been centralised and its competence is precisely for one authority. Now that the questioner asked what this means for the consumer, that means that we hope that we will not be congested by these treatments. But consumer advice, just as it has been so far, is the primary body to which the consumer can contact. If the consumer adviser is unable to help in this, then the next panel will be the Consumer Disputes Board. Practically this will not weaken the position of the consumer in any way if these disputes do not become more congested by the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u150	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 12 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u151	The 14th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 12 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-11-ps-62.u152	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 12 November 2015.
