ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u1	The plenary session will begin. I welcome everyone here at Sibelius's house in Sibelius's centenary year to begin our responsible work for the Fatherland. As an elder from my age as a Member of Parliament, I shall be chairing this first part-session of Parliament until, according to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament has elected the President and two Vice-Presidents and they have given Parliament a solemn assurance. Plenum Börjar. Som den riksdagsledamot som äldst till åren är det min uppgift att föra ordet vid första plenum under riksmötet till dess att riksdagen enligt 4 § i riksdagens arbets-ordning inom sig valt talman och två vice talmän och dessa har avgett högtidlig försäkran inför riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u2	The election of the President, which, like the election of the Vice-Presidents, is now followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. I would like to point out that the name of the candidate must also be identified with sufficient precision, if necessary, using the first name. Nu följer val av talman, viiket liksom ave liet av vice talmän förrättas enligt 34 § 2 moments i Finlands grundlag och 5 och 6 § i valstadgan för riksdage. Valet förrättas således med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska enligt namnupprop i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag vill påminna om att candidates namn ska anges tillräckligt tydligt. Vid behov kan också förnamnet anges. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Kimmo Tiilikainen, Jari Lindström, Arto Satonen and Antti Lindtman. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamöter granska röstsedlarna och rösterna vid lies: Kimmo Tiilikainen, Jari Lindström, Arto Satonen och Antti Lindtman. I note that the votes cast are not made public.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the recent vote was disturbed by the noise in this Chamber, and some Members did not even hear their name in the back. I would ask you to respect Parliament's work in such a way that there is no noise or disorder here. - Thank you. The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u4	When Juha Sipilä has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the 2015 Parliaments. Ettersom ledamot Juha Sipilä vid liet erhållit mer hälften av de avgivna godkanda rösterna, har han valts till talman vid riksmötet 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u5	Now comes the election of the first Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. In the election, I ask the following representatives: Anne Kalmari, Maria Lohela, Outi Mäkelä and Johanna Ojala-Niemelä. Nu följer val av förste vice talman. Valet förrättas med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter biträda vid lies: Anne Kalmari, Maria Lohela, Outi Mäkelä och Johanna Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u6	I would ask the representatives to calm down and move on to their seats. The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u7	When Mr Soini has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected first Vice-President of Parliament for the 2015 Parliament. Eftersom ledamot Timo Soini vid liet erhållit mer hälften av de avgivna godkanda rosterna, har Han valts till förste vice talman vid riksmötet 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u8	Now comes the election of another Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. In the election, I request the following representatives: Tuomo Puumala, Kaj Turunen, Sinuhe Wallinheimo and Kristiina Salonen. Nu följer val av andre vice talman. Valet förrättas med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter biträda vid lies: Tuomo Puumala, Kaj Turunen, Sinuhe Wallinheimo och Kristiina Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u9	The result of the vote shall be read. Omröstningsresultatet avkunnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u10	When Mr Ben Zyskowicz has received more than half of the votes cast, he has been elected second Vice-President of Parliament for the 2015 Parliament. Eftersom ledamot Ben Zyskowicz vid valat erhållit mer ylften av de avgivna godkanda rosterna, har Han valts till andre vice talman vid riksmötet 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u11	I would ask the President and the Vice-Presidents in turn to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Jag ber talmannen och de båda vice talmännen att inför riksdagen i tur och ordning avge sin högtidliga försäkran i enlighet med 4 § i arbetsordningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u12	I, Juha Sipilä, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Juha Sipilä försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u13	I Timo Soini assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Timo Soini försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens ragtigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u14	I, Ben Zyskowicz, declare that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Ben Zyskowicz försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens ragtigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u15	I would ask Mr President to take his place in Parliament and to take action. Jag ber riksdagens herr talman inta talmannens plats och börja utöva sin befattning.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! On behalf of the entire elected Bureau, I would like to thank you for the confidence you have shown, Mr President-in-Office, and ladies and gentlemen, and at the same time congratulate you on each of the credentials you have received from the Finns. På mina egna och de nyvalda vice talmännens vägnar vill jag framföra ett varmt tag till er, Herr ålderstalman, och till er, bästa kolleger, för det förtroende som ni visade mig i talmansvalet nysss. Jag vill också gratulara er alla till den fullmakt Finlands folk har gett er. Many of our close colleagues in the previous parliamentary term gave up parliamentary representation or were left unelected. Compared to the last parliamentary term, 73 MPs will change. 57 of them were elected for the first time and 16 MPs returned to Parliament after a break. The average age of the new Parliament is 47.3 years at the beginning of the parliamentary term. Fourteen MPs under the age of 30 were elected, which is four more than in the 2011 Parliamentary elections. Two MPs from an immigrant background were also elected to the Parliament. I consider this to be a very positive development. In terms of gender equality, we still have a lot of work to do. There are 117 men and 83 women in the new Parliament. Two women were elected less than four years ago. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We begin our work under exceptionally demanding conditions. The international situation is more tense than it has been for a long time. Finland's own situation is very difficult and we have major problems to solve. Public confidence in political decision-making is under test. The events of the last few weeks of the previous Parliament must not be repeated. Only we can restore confidence through our own efforts. We have nothing more important to do than find lasting solutions to the difficult situation in Finland. The decision-making process must be much more decisive than it has been so far. Each of us can contribute to a culture of political debate. Our respect for each other should be reflected better in social media as well as in parliamentary hall work. We all need to get serious about what is going on here, and we need to be prepared for unbiased solutions. Let our common goal be that, in celebrating the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence, we have achieved a turning point in unbiased cooperation and strengthened national integrity. It's up to us now. Parliamentary work will continue for a couple of years in temporary premises due to renovation. I believe that this too can be overcome with patience and with the help of parliamentary staff. På de nyvalda talmännens vägnar önskar jag er, ärade riksdagsledamöter, och alla som arbetar i huset ett riksmöte fullt av utmanande arbete. On behalf of the elected Presidents, I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, and all those who work in this House a full-time Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u17	It is announced that the elections of the committees and the Commission will take place next Tuesday, 5 May, at the plenary session at 14 p.m. Candidate lists for these elections must be submitted to the central office by 12 noon next Monday 4 May at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u18	I would like to inform you that the representatives will sit in the Chamber in alphabetical order of sitting until Parliament decides otherwise, on a proposal from the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-04-28-ps-1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to the opening of the 2015 Parliaments, which will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 29 April 2015 and before the opening, for the parliamentary service. The ceremony will follow the instructions adopted by the Council of Presidents on 17 December 2012. Ecumenical opening service begins at the Helsinki Cathedral at 12 noon. I would ask the representatives to meet before the service at 11.30 a.m. in front of the National Library, where we are going as a procession to the Cathedral. After the service, the opening of the Parliament begins at the House of Finlandia, where I invite representatives to move immediately after the church ceremony. At the opening of the Parliaments in Finlandia Hall, the President of the Republic declares the 2015 Parliaments open.
