ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u2	Congressman Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u3	Mr President! It is important for the government to promote social reform. After all, the aim of the reform has been to allow people to get to treatment more quickly and without bouncing, to reduce welfare inequalities and to curb the increase in costs. On the night against Saturday, we heard that the government decided on a regional government reform in which to plant a social welfare solution. We are going to have a confused administration with power and responsibility. All experts have argued that this is not the best solution for social services. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, the government is going to save EUR 3 billion on social spending. So I ask you, when officials from your ministry calculated the savings of EUR 3 billion on the basis of 12 regions, which they considered reasonable: could you tell the public how you justify that regions are now being created, both 18 and 15?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u4	Mr President! Indeed, a social solution was achieved, and the solution is therefore that we have 18 autonomous regions and 15 social areas. And you asked me about this $3 billion savings. We had three objectives here. Number 1 was saving 3 billion from the point of view of the sustainability gap. Number 2 was that taxation did not tighten, and number 3 was that services would improve. I believe that this overall solution, when it is born and put into effect in 2019, will do this. In fact, there are three things about savings: (1) the state has strong control; (2) these decisions are taken on wider shoulders than ever before; and (3) competition is increased. In my opinion, this is an excellent social solution combined with an excellent regional governance solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u5	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u6	Mr President! I will return to the heart of the whole social reform. After all, the solution was to produce a clear governance model that would enable this integration, and the experts were in favour of this 12 regions. Now comes the confused governance model, and the arrival of private service providers alongside the public is now undermining this integration and the concept of a whole set of services that are important to citizens. This was supposed to lead to cost savings. Is it now that you are starting to prepare such a service promise, as these official papers say, to limit the services of citizens to a minimum, so that this savings can be made? The memorandum states that priority must now be given, hospitals should be closed down and a service promise should be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u7	Mr President! I don't know exactly what that part of the question was. But we left the government with the need to have an overall solution that contained two things. One was the social and social reform that we in this Chamber have been trying to achieve for more than 10 years, but we have not been able to do so collectively — we have succeeded now. And the other entity we are aiming for was that we would have a more rational model of self-government than we are today. And we ended up in a system with 18 self-government districts. We also went over the framework and tasks that these self-governing regions have, and then we ended up in 15 social areas, which means three of these regions, which are not social regions, as it were, relying on another area. In my opinion, this model is clear and the basic principles on which it is based are also good. I would like to emphasise that it is absolutely clear that when we start to build legislation, we need to look closely at the funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u8	Mr President! The change that is being made will be made on the basis of which there is a history. At the same time, you have to see far into the future and remember that number one thing: At present, it is certain that services will decline. The current trend is certain to increase health inequalities. As things stand, it is certain that our money will not suffice in any way. The government's about to revolutionize the government. Man is number one. Human service, need for care — it is the promise of service that this government makes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u9	Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u10	Mr President! Let me ask the Prime Minister, Mr Stubb: now these estimates were based on a model of 12 regions, a clear one-step model of government that was going to save EUR 3 billion, and now you have reached 18 and 15 regions and you have created administrative bureaucracy. I'm gonna ask you one more time. When officials say clearly that it is now necessary to prioritise, cut off services, close hospitals, that this rationalisation is no longer enough to make savings, what do you say now to citizens who are concerned about their services? Are we going to prioritise, create service packages with a certain limit — you will get this, and you will have to pay for the excess or take out insurance?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u11	Mr President! Three sets of things in response to this. The first relates to the new system of regional government. That is where we end up looking at the total number of regions, i.e. the total number of social areas, in the context of the organisation decision. In practice, this means that if the experts were right, that fork may be formed somewhere between 5 and 12, and if they were wrong, then we will stick to the 15. In that sense, this system is clear. The second entity involved is the savings. I strongly believe that the savings mechanism of this civil service reform — dated 4 November at 11.00 a.m. — will also verify that the EUR 3 billion of the sustainability gap is being managed and that taxation is not being tightened. Then there is, of course, the way in which we do it, and one of those entities is freedom of choice. I would like to point out here that the state is making this decision, making it like a box, and then a Finnish patient.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u12	Mr President! I must say that we have a very necessary, important and very big reform in this debate, which has been going on for 15 years at the very least. It is a good thing that the government has come to an agreement on this now, but it seems that you still have very big questions open to you, particularly with regard to this freedom of choice. Still no one has opened up to us, who chooses, what chooses, and who chooses from. These are questions that affect the success and outcome of these wars. Mr Stubb, I would like to ask you once again, Mr Prime Minister, where does the savings come from, the savings of EUR 3 billion? You are talking about freedom of choice, which, in my opinion, increases costs. Does this social welfare reform now make it possible to save on the availability and quality of care? These are very important questions for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u13	Mr President! It's not about quality. It's about quality. If we look at this overall package, which has been created, even as a couple of options and savings. Freedom of choice increases equality in our currently unequal system of health and social services,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u16	Mr President! One of the key objectives of the social welfare reform is to achieve better integration between health care and social services on the one hand and basic and special care on the other. Integration means that these service chains would be intact, i.e. cooperation and continuity would work. The question arises that if, however, the government's objective is to increase competition or competition strongly — Deputy Prime Minister Stubbhan said that competition will increase strongly — then how will we be able to ensure that service chains remain intact and integration will not be jeopardised? And then, on the other hand, I would also like to ask when, at this information conference this week, it became clear that you are also going to include social services in these services, which are, as it were, more open to private producers, for this money to follow the patient model, how do you
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u17	And now it would be the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u18	Mr President! Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto opened the heart of what is to be done and what is to be used to bring together that 3 billion over the next 15 years. We are in the process of combining social welfare and health care. We are in the process of combining the basic and special levels, getting those service chains in order in a situation where people fall at home, the hip breaks. What happens in a situation where you are able to return home? What is the chain, the chain of rehabilitation involving health care and social care for people who need both? These are the means by which this can be achieved: The very essence of the matter is knowledge. Information management, meeting the demand for services in a situation where you need to know which services you will need. It can be predicted. Secondly, the flow of information is one problem throughout our current model. Too Fragmented
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u19	Värderade Talman! Vi talar om kanske århundradets viktigaste reform, och det som man brode minnas nu är faktiskt patienten, på vilket sätt servicen ska kunna garanteras på Jämlika grunder för alla finländare i det rai landet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u20	Mr President! Even the government doesn't think that 12 hospitals can handle it, but we have to remember that this isn't a hospital law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u23	Mr President! There are three good things here: the government has made a decision, the government has not broken down, at least not yet, and the third good thing is this freedom of choice. If it is done sensibly, it can indeed be good, but it requires that it serves citizens equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u24	Mr President! We had a proposal from the previous Parliament in the form of a very long proposal at Parliament's reading. We then fell — then Parliament — into section 121 of the Constitution, the municipal self-government. The second paragraph of the Constitution, which is the leading figure in moving things forward, is that people have access to services wherever they need them, regardless of the size and place of residence of the money bag and also their mother tongue. These are one of the most important leading stars to travel towards. What happens in Vaasa, what happens in Seinäjoki with regard to precise emergency services, is ultimately decided in the area; what is done in the areas is decided. Strong government guidance — I repeat, strong government guidance — will ensure that sufficient on-call services are also available in Närpiö in its own mother tongue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u25	Mr President! I would like to ask what you meant by that, Minister of Finance, that you guarantee that savings will be made. It's a lot guaranteed, especially since you're the Minister of Finance. I am terribly weak and am surprised that you have hung up on this so-called model of freedom of choice, the Swedish model. With regard to this market-based model, which you are promoting, Sweden has been found — quite directly investigated by the Swedish authorities — that it has not produced savings but much more costs. And you specifically wanted this Swedish model to be promoted in Finland, so it has become very unclear to me what you mean by the fact that this promotion of freedom of choice will result in savings. Rather, you are creating the very same problem where the well-off and the well-off are receiving more care and the weaker, the sick are receiving worse treatment. I thought we were supposed to do what the minister just testified, get everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u26	Mr President! In order to avoid misunderstandings, two things must be viewed here. As far as freedom of choice is concerned, we are not building the Swedish model, not the Danish model, let alone the Dutch model, but we are building the Finnish model,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u29	Mr President! The left side is in favour of people's freedom of choice, but we are not in favour of companies' freedom of money. The great concern about this system is that, in Sweden, for example, when it is known that with this model money is followed by an affluent patient, equality has decreased, health inequalities have increased, so how to create the Finnish model that ensures that equality is improved and private companies do not create a machine for making money. If you look at how the market has reacted to this social solution and precisely to this section, which wants to involve private individuals: the stock exchange prices of private medical firms have risen, Attendo immediately announced that he would go to the stock market. How does the government guarantee that the use of aggressive tax evasion and tax havens will not be included in the funding of Finnish health care? Does the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, trust you when you have personal information through both Minister Toivaka and Minister Berner on how this aggressive tax planning works,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u30	Mr. Speaker! It is no wonder that in this building of the future change in social welfare and health care, it is a mess. It is no wonder that from time to time people are a little bit concerned and less concerned about where the maternity clinic services are or how to get to the doctor’s office or how long the treatment lines are. We are now building with strong state guidance the model and the solution that is the Finnish model for this situation. No copy-based solution can be found in us because we are the first in the world to link social and health care to a single purse under one management.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u31	Mr President! I agree with Mr Arhinmäki that we are trying to reform social welfare and health services, especially in the case of human beings. And that was what we were trying to achieve here as a whole, and we made a big decision. But I would also like to see some respect for the decision that has been taken in the direction of our ministry. I personally would like to thank Minister Juha Ruhula and Minister Hanna Mäntylä for the excellent work they have done to enable us to achieve this solution, and I would not be too happy to confuse tax issues with this, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u32	Mr President! Indeed, a number of studies in the last period have already supported this model that has been presented, which is precisely what has been proposed in black and white for EUR 3 billion. It cannot come as such a surprise, and, as the Minister for Finance described, for 10 years this solution has been sought that someone has been in a coma if this surprise can be considered. But there is indeed a broader solution to this social solution, which concerns this regional self-government, and I think it is very important that it is clearly for the benefit of the regions. Obviously, Mr Vehviläinen, you will then play an important role in this further preparation, and I would like to ask the Minister: what are the cornerstones on which this regional government is to be built, and then avoid, for example, that pipeline administration and siloing?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u33	Mr President! This is a real dim revolution. So we're getting together. But what does this self-government reform mean? I would perhaps like to make it clear that the autonomous regions mean a democratic regional government — a democratic regional government in the provinces, in the 18 regions. We have now set out the four issues that are particularly relevant here, namely the rescue services, the development tasks of the Ely Centres, the tasks of regional councils and environmental health care, and the investigation work is now being carried out,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u34	Mr President! Let me remind you that what this social reform was all about in the first place: that there will be bigger entities that take overall responsibility for the patient, so that the bounce is reduced, so that the patient gets the treatment at the right time in the right place and the right treatment in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u37	Mr President! History lessons we can take on this matter today, and probably next Wednesday we will continue this history lesson to each other, about what has happened along the way,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u40	Mr President! Just like this: not just the structure, but, above all, man. Let me take an example from a human perspective. We've got a working person who's having trouble with his back. She needs treatment. She needs surgery. Most of the time he may have to wait six months, and at the same time we pay him sickness allowance, both employer and our Kela, so we have to ask him if it makes sense to pay for a person’s illness, for example, EUR 10,000 during his waiting period. The basic question then is whether the solution that has now been taken is that we can really make one-channel funding and create a structure in which the back patient is immediately admitted to treatment, society saves and we also get more working days.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u41	Mr President! The government has outlined the change that is being made, the basic poles of its change, anchored the public service, anchored the fact that we will continue to have strong public actors who ultimately always care about it, whether it is basic or special services, that the services are available. Secondly, the foundations for building finance and its own freedom of choice have now been hardened so that preparation can continue. This week, too, there have been reports in more than one aviaries that there has been a social war. The Sote settlement was born at the time when the law was passed by Parliament and the legislation was adopted in the spring of 2017. And that's the aim that a person gets those services when he needs them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u42	Mr President! It is good that a solution has now been found to take forward the social welfare reform. It is not all ideal, but the main thing is that in future we will have people's social and health services on our shoulders so that people will continue to receive good health care or improve it in order to get to the doctor. However, with regard to the extensive reform of social services, I would like to ask in more detail whether there are any plans or ideas on the whole of social services and the service chains. How, for example, will services for people with disabilities, child protection, care for the elderly be organised in the future? Will the disabled person receive better care and better social services and prevention after the reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u43	Mr President! We will continue to have the Health Care Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Disability Services Act, the Child Welfare Act, a separate legislation that will guide the doing of things that will provide a legislative, standard basis for the services provided to people, even as guaranteed by the Constitution. This specific legislation, the content legislation, is not going anywhere. It is now being sought that, with wider shoulders, closer knowledge, it is possible that, when there are more and more young people with multiple problems, for example, when families are in multi-problem situations, these service chains would be such that they would have the skills required by each situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, next week we will return to this theme on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcement. There will be a two-and-a-half-hour discussion. — For this debate, Mr Tölli.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u45	Mr President! This reform is historic. This means a significant clarification of the organisations and creates the conditions for effective management, knowledge management and care for the patient or person at the right time in the right place. The organisation itself does not bring savings — the SDP seems to believe in the organisation as such — but this creates the conditions for the harmonisation of information systems. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister for Basic Services: what do you think is the importance of these very things, that this creates an opportunity for effective management, for new treatment practices and for people to be treated in the right place at the right time?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u46	Mr President! It is necessary for us to make the information move, regardless of where we are, for example on medication or prior treatment, for each person, every Finn. It's necessary. Creating the foundations that will enable these present mazes of information systems to be brought into a situation where there will be no walls encountered, but that information will pass, no matter where we are in Finland — an absolutely central issue for proper care and care. Secondly, the future to which provision is made is such that it does not need to be predicted,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u47	Next question, Congressman Ville Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u48	Mr President! Social and health care reform is indeed needed, but yesterday the government also prepared a proposal that is not needed. This is a coercive package of laws, in which the government, unilaterally, is going to cut people's holiday money by 30%. The first sickness allowance will become unpaid, i.e. it will not be reimbursed. Annual holidays are cut, and the public holidays become unpaid. There were two things that were confusing about the government statement. These are formally intended for periods of time, as the Prime Minister said to Parliament, but at the same time you said that the real purpose is to make permanent laws, permanent effects of cuts. How is this conflict possible? Secondly, a senior official from the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Budget Manager, admitted that it could even be said that over three years the impact of this package will be negative for the economy, i.e. employment will deteriorate as domestic demand weakens. In other words, would it not be better to make long-term wage moderation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u49	Mr President! After all, the aim here is twofold: to increase employment and growth. And it is obvious that when certain tightening measures are taken, whether through the budget or through other legislation, their short-term impact can be economical. But perhaps one mistake I would like to correct, and that is that the estimates of the Ministry of Finance and also of this package of laws say that this package, if implemented, would increase jobs in Finland by 52,000. It is the assessment that has been made in this legislative package. You may have contrasted, though quite rightly, with the substance of time-limits and then with the time-limit for restricting the right of the labour market to agree on this issue. From the outset, as the Prime Minister has said on many occasions, it is the three-year period, a short period of time, during which social partners are not given the opportunity to regulate the system in this area, and then the substance remains as it is. It's permanent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u50	Mr President! Finnish society has been based on a model of contractual society, and a key part of it has been that solutions have been found in the labour market. They have been based on the objective of mutual consultation and an agreement has been reached. Now the bourgeois government has turned its back on this treaty society. First, you made a so-called Sicilian offer in which, in accordance with the wishes of the South Bank, you first defined the outcome, and when the Ay movement refused to cut its own wages, extend its working hours and weaken its working conditions, you have now brought this package of compulsory legislation. You are cutting the benefits of a middle-income employee, in most cases from the female sector of the public sector, from around EUR 1200 to EUR 3000 per year with these, as Mr Niinistö has mentioned here. This has been thought to lead, both through a reduction in purchasing power and through other consequences, to a reduction of up to 20,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u51	Deputy Prime Minister first, then Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u52	Mr President! It's always good to get back to that big picture. We currently have a stall economy and, in order for us to have a positive cycle, we need competitiveness. It is followed by exports, followed by growth, followed by jobs, followed by tax revenues and followed by the level of Finnish welfare society. We have to take these decisions at this stage, but our door has been open from the outset to the fact that labour market organisations find compensatory measures in this so-called 5+5 solution, in which we put the first 5% on the table and a moderate wage solution is the second. If, along the way, we have a verifiable solution from the social partners that we can calculate and verify, then why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u53	Mr President! Just as the Minister of Finance said there, this is of course not a nice thing — I have said it many times — but the government has been forced to take painful decisions in this economic situation and take its own line forward. That's why this package is made. But there has always been a dialogue with the social partners, and that debate has been very constructive. And now that this has gone to the hearings, then there is the possibility of experts — in relation to working life, labour law, fundamental rights — making a statement, after which the government will make an assessment of the impact of these statements, and then, if the social partners make a better offer, we can withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u54	I would now ask those Members who wish to put a supplementary question to this question already asked by the two representatives to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u55	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday's exit from the Ministry of Finance was to be revealed by the fact that, at the same time, Akava calculated that your coercive package cuts up to 8% of the wages of people working in the public sector. So you are prepared to risk the appreciation of these professions: we are talking about nurses, kindergarten teachers, policemen, vital social tasks, the importance of which should not be underestimated. And you argue that tough economic decisions have to be made in order for the economy to rise. But when an official of the Ministry of Finance himself says that this in the short term causes more negative effects than positive effects on the economy, would it not be more reasonable to seize the path of reconciliation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u57	Now it is up to the representative of the government — the Prime Minister’s deputy, apparently?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u59	Mr President! Your incompetence in labour market logic and in the functioning of the labour market is indeed a very high risk, and the risk is perhaps borne by Finnish society. It can be very expensive when the alternative is the view of many economic experts, many professors, that there is another way, a more sensible way by which wage increases are made on a moderate pay line at the same time in our control countries, and this unit cost competitiveness is rapidly levelled. In such a way that you will stick to the goal and not be flexible about it, you are taking the risk that the labour market situation will escalate, will become wage increases, a renaissance spirit, and that long-term competitiveness in Finland will also be put at risk in a fatal way. Listen now to the economic experts, but listen also to experienced trade union and labour market leaders.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u60	Mr President! Congressman Uotila, you say the government is taking a great risk. We'd risk even more if we didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u61	Mr President! When Minister Lindström says that the government has to decide, there is now a fundamental misunderstanding. You don't have to decide, and you don't really have to pay. There are a lot of other things you really need to decide on, but, in Western society, well-established thinking is that wages and working conditions are decided by employees and employers and by organisations representing them. We have talked about these models from different countries: the Swedish model, the Danish model and then the Finnish model. Now the model that you, Minister Lindström, are building is indeed an extraordinary, complete deviation from the model of both Finland and other Western countries. You are in the process of making compulsory laws to cut the conditions for employees' pay and, in concrete terms, wage cuts. It's a very hard line. I also find this very questionable from the point of view of the Constitution. I ask, Minister Lindström, when you said before the election that you were defending a Finnish worker:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u62	Mr President! Yeah, if that's what we're gonna do. It's my duty. When you say that you do not have to decide: yes, sometimes you have to make decisions and not always go in the way that someone does, some miracle, and save us. You're saying this is a very special model. So is the special situation. Finland is in such a situation that things have to be done here. As I have just said, these laws go to the opinion and can then take a position on these constitutional problems as well, and when this matter has been prepared with official responsibility, the government believes that these are not constitutional, because they are precise, they only concern a limited part of the content of collective agreements and collective agreements, they do not interfere with existing collective agreements and collective agreements, and the restrictions on contracts are valid for a period of time. For these reasons, among other things, we believe that this is in accordance with the Constitution, but it is decided by the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u63	Mr President! There are a large number of us who hope, and even believe, that there is still time, there is still a chance of reaching a social pact. And when the Minister of Finance said that the door is still open, of course we would be interested to hear if you could say something: can there still be a result in these negotiations that this goal, which the opposition has already set out, would not be achieved, but that it would be possible to achieve a solution that would bring about social peace and conditions for growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u64	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u65	Mr President! As the Prime Minister himself has said on many occasions, we are prepared to accept a proposal that meets the 5+5 criteria, and we believe that the social partners are currently negotiating on this whole, and, as the Minister for Labour has just said, we are prepared to accept the outcome of the negotiations and assess the whole as part of our legislative package. In my opinion, it is also important from the perspective of Finnish society that we are currently investing in two things in addition to these legislative measures: one is wage moderation and the other is peace of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u66	Mr President, Herr Talman! It is quite clear that this economic situation is so difficult that, if Finland were not a euro country, we would certainly have been devaluations of our economy at this stage. Now it's not possible. In practice, this means that labour market reforms are needed. But then trust is also needed, and it is perhaps the biggest challenge at the moment that trust does not seem to be found on the sides and in a different way. Then there is a lot of questioning about these figures. You said, Mr Finance Minister, that 52,000 jobs — that is a good achievement if that is the case. It is only clear that not everyone has opened up, where the jobs come from and how. This is where the government faces a small communication challenge. I would have asked Minister Lindström that, having at least been convinced in our group that local agreement is what actually achieves something and also preserves jobs, how this is going to proceed and how to create the confidence that is the basis for making local agreement and model work in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u67	Mr President! Mr Haglund has made a very good speech. So this local agreement is something in which I see opportunities, as long as it is done in the right way. It is now moving in such a way that we have chewed it once in the government and chewed it many more times. That we look at it as just atoms, the path we take. For us, of course, as for all those who are familiar with these matters, the corner point is whether we go here by the so-called TES or by the law. This is the big line that the government has to decide, and it has not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u68	Mr President! Indeed, we are facing a very important reform here, which clearly needs to be discussed several times. It has been given a number of names that can be justified. Just as well this can be called a competitiveness package or just as rightly a job-saving package. However, there seems to be a lot of misunderstandings about this question, especially perhaps in this Chamber. One issue that continues to arise is why this is being promoted in this way. Well, time and again the government has shown itself to be listening and cooperating and very cooperative, and it has also been emphasised here today. I think this misunderstanding has already been corrected. But perhaps it is worth pointing out once again how this package promotes competitiveness and exports, as our Finance Minister has said about these six steps. I could ask the ministers concerned, though both of them, how does this bring us growth, how does this bring us employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u69	Well, who's gonna start? Deputy Prime Minister? Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u70	Mr President! Of these six steps, if only the first is to be broken down: I will take this evaluation and study on page 34, and when I look at this package of measures, I will say that 5% can be estimated to improve employment in the private sector by around 52,000 people. If employment increases permanently by 52,000 persons, the sustainability gap in public finances would be reduced by around 0.5 percentage points. This is indeed a whole, that is, this first 5% is not the one that will determine Finland's future; the second 5% that calls for wage moderation is equally important, and in fact the third 5% that will reform our labour market system, for example through earnings-related or local agreement. These are the actions we can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u71	Mr President! You asked me what's stopping me from making a deal. It prevents us from agreeing to build a ship that favours the other side. And it would be better if the government were also in contact with the employer and agreed or promoted, put some pressure on that side to make these arrangements more flexible. But what I wonder about is the whole package, when we were just talking about the war, is that it says in your own package that these proposals are likely to add to the fact that people go to work sick. They are also likely to increase the risk of long absenteeism. How do these contribute to the economic good? And if you look at this holiday package, you are building such a cutter that cuts off vacations or holiday money from people who are currently working. But then you say that those who sign a new contract of employment will then receive a small part of the holiday allowance legally. This leads to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u73	Mr President! Of course, Mrs Filatov is right that this is not a complete package. But these are the means the government can use. That is what we have come to end up with, and of course there are problems, we know and acknowledge that, but, as has been said many times, this is the only way we can tackle this cost-competitiveness. And once again the door is wide open, welcome to present a better option. We are very sensitive to those alternatives, and I believe that the social partners are also considering them and that they may become quite good alternatives. Let's just wait and see what their offer is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u74	Mr President! There have been rather surprising speeches from the opposition here. First of all, Mr Uotila said here that no agreement is appreciated. What has been done throughout this reign, apart from the expectation that the social partners will be able to agree? Furthermore, it has been announced here that we will be prepared to accept a proposal that is sufficiently ambitious. Then Mr Niinistö said here that do not make this package of laws, but make a moderate wage decision. Well, an essential part of this is a moderate wage solution, but it alone is not enough for the competitiveness problem we currently have. And then Mr Heinäluoma said that we should not decide on such matters at all. In other words, we should act in such a way as to allow Finland only to go downhill in a free fall in order to increase unemployment and to break the financial base of our welfare society. The government can't do this, can it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u75	Mr President! No, it can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u76	Yeah, we're pretty much at the core here. So it concerns the question of whether employees and employers in the free West will be able to agree on their salaries or is it the case that Mr Satonen, Mr Stubb and Mr Lindström will end the wage cuts? This is at the heart of it now, ladies and gentlemen. Is it really the case that you are forced to cut employees' salaries when you are forced to? This is not what happens in the Western countries, but the organizations agree on wages, and the government does not go to the employer's locker room, as you have now done and confuse these negotiations in this way. If you had not gone into this forced business in the first place, I think we would have a reasonably balanced agreement which would not undermine the interests of employees as you now want — including Minister Lindström, who promised many times before the elections to defend a Finnish worker. Now he implements a very tough surgery program under complete coercion in violation of Western rules. Is that so, Minister Lindström?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u77	Mr President! I have been of the opinion that the best social model is a liberal democracy combined with a social market economy. But at a time when we are questioning the fundamental nature of Western democracy, which is, therefore, the fact that elected MPs take responsibility for both employment and growth through legislation at the end of the game, I believe that we are on the verge of democracy. It is clear that this government and this Parliament will take responsibility. It is equally clear that we continue to regard the contractual society as an important part of Western democracy and will continue to do so in the future. But if agreement is not reached through the agreement, then in the end game the responsibility lies with you, Mr Heinäluoma, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u78	And the original authors of this question, Mr Niinistö and Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u79	Mr President! I am very concerned about what Mr Stubb has just said. There was nothing liberal about it. You said that the government should standardise with the new standard what may be the maximum salary or what may be the correction of the maximum sickness allowance, over-allocation between the employee and the employer. You are in the process of making a compulsory law which has not been seen in Western labour law to create ceilings for workers' rights. But this pipe thinking bothers me even more. I too want, and the Greens want, a policy that supports economic growth with which Finland will rise. But you are putting at risk the other parts of this improvement in cost competitiveness by making a coercive package, from which the Finance Ministry's own officials say that this is only detrimental to the economy in the short term and it jeopardises the desire to agree on a local agreement that is in many ways more effective, it jeopardises the desire to conclude a long-term wage moderation agreement. These would be better ways of raising the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u80	And now the answer from the government, deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u81	Mr President! I also checked here what Juha Majanen of the Ministry of Finance has said, and perhaps, Mr Niinistö, the whole premiss of your question is wrong because you quote Deputy Budget Manager Maja incorrectly. He has stated that if, in three years' time, the conditions of employment were restored, this would have a negative effect on the whole. So no official of the VM has said what you have just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u82	Mr Uotila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u83	Mr President! At least this means that the first three years of positive development will not be achieved by these solutions. That is a fact, and it has become clear from an official. And there's no way out of it. And what is the starting point: the contractual society, which you say you respect, is that we have the social partners, that they are making decisions, that they are putting on the table their own proposals for, for example, a labour market solution and so on. This time you have intervened and taken advice only from the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u86	Mr President! Our Government Programme is called Finland of Solutions. This government has made an ambitious government programme. This government has dealt with the largest and most difficult asylum package in the history of Finland. From the outset, this government made difficult decisions on the future of the euro and on Greece. This government has adopted compensatory measures in the social contract. This government has made social and regional government decisions. This government will also make decisions on local agreement and earnings-related unemployment security. Does this mean that the next three years will be nothing more than upturns? Of course not, but someone has to make these decisions, and that is the government, and in three years' time the results will be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u87	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u88	Mr President! Since Father’s Day, serious shortcomings in the care of the elderly have been reported. In several 24-hour units, the number of staff in relation to the number of people to be treated is already inadequate, i.e. more caring hands would be needed. That is why I am concerned that the government is going to operate on this and reduce care providers for the elderly by lowering the recommendation from 0.5 to 0.4 nurses per patient. In practice, this would mean that most of the day, one person would have to take care of about 18 elderly people. After all, during the last term, Parliament stated that the dimensioning must be regulated by law if there is one unit in which that dimension is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u89	Mr President! One example is that the existing legislation and the existing dimensions have not worked is too much. Unfortunately, these messages are often received. What is being pursued, what is absolutely essential, is that everyone, regardless of age, and especially the older generation, should be guaranteed a dignified old age. What the government has to do: we are trying to make the services of the elderly, the services of the ageing population, decent by looking for completely new ways of working. We have good solutions such as home services for elderly people across Finland, as well as forms of 24/7 care and care that can be varied. With modern dimensions, even smaller dimensions, it is possible to do them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u90	One final question, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u91	Herr Talman! Det importförbud som Ryssland infört som svar på EU:s sanctioner mot landet slår hårt mot lantbruksektorn. Därför har EU-Parliamentset anslagit 500 milioner för att lindra de bull effekterna.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u92	Mr President! The representative rightly described this Europe-wide crisis package with which it has been decided to ease the agricultural crisis, and Finland accounts for 9 million of it, which comes from that EU. In addition, the government has already decided in the supplementary budget to allocate 20 million national funds to deal with the difficult agricultural situation. Together, these will form a whole that will allow this national supplement to be paid on top of the EU subsidies. The precise distribution of this between the different production lines is still open, but I will also see to it that the pig sector receives its share of these subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u93	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u94	Mr President! The government proposes that the car tax should be reduced by EUR 200 million. I don't think anyone's gonna be surprised when I tell them there's a smarter way to use the money. If the car tax were to be reduced by just EUR 100 million, the result would be cost-neutral, while the government has suggested that the vehicle tax should be increased by EUR 100 million. We will probably all share the common objective of reducing emissions from transport. For that, car and vehicle taxes are excellent tools. The more high-emission cars are taxed, the fewer are in traffic. The less low-emission cars are taxed, the more they are on the road. In particular, we should favour zero-emission cars, and this would be achieved if their taxes were to be reduced to zero for a fixed period. In these words, I object to the adoption of the 1st bill, otherwise in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance, except for the amendment of the tax table 1 in the annex to the Act, and also to the 2nd Amendment. the draft law will otherwise be adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance, except for the tax table 1 in the annex to the Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u95	Mr President! I support Mr Vartia's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u96	Mr President! This presentation is part of Sipilä's government's policies. We think it's going to make the fleet of cars regenerate. We believe that it will contribute to new growth. It is part of a larger transport tax reform, in which, for example, we are tightening taxes on these muscle boats and the heavy-duty road user charge will come into force. Indeed, this taxation can also regulate the renewal of the car fleet to a lower level of emissions. I think it is a positive thing and of course it will make it easier for those middle-income workers who have often been concerned about their survival in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u97	I would like to point out to the Members that the amendments will be tabled at the next reading. — I am sorry, tomorrow at a detailed hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u98	Mr President! In Finland, the oldest cars in Europe are driven on almost the worst roads in Europe. The average age of passenger cars used in Finland is 13.5 years. What does that mean in cars? This means that they are less emission-efficient than new cars, they are less safe than new cars. And that's why we have to take action to improve our fleet of cars. As explained above by Mr Kalmari, this is part of the Government's programme objective of a traffic tax reform and is intended to gradually reduce the car tax during the Government term, so that the tax revenue reduction effect of the change will be around EUR 200 million at the 2019 level. Step-by-step reductions are therefore to be implemented over the next four years and targeted at low-emission vehicles in order to improve environmental control — a limit of 140 grams per kilometre. Thus, the car tax would be reduced by cars with a maximum specific carbon dioxide emission. Similarly, if the level of emissions is higher, the tax rate would remain at the current level. On the other hand, the proposal also includes an increase in the annual vehicle tax from the beginning of 2017. The amendment is intended to be implemented in the form of an equal increase of EUR 36.50 in the basic tax rate for the whole of Finland. In any event, the vehicle tax would have been increased for fiscal reasons regardless of the car tax change. However, as a whole, these two proposals will reduce the tax burden on motor vehicles in Finland from 2018. In addition to the amendment, the proposal modifies the taxation of imported vehicles used — and this change is therefore due to the new rulings of the EU Court of Justice, which changed the line adopted by the Court in 2006 and subsequently followed in Finland in the context of the 2008 environmental tax reform. The proposal means that, even after the tax reform, no more tax can be levied on cars imported when used than it remains in the value of a car previously registered in Finland. Mr President! Will this 200 million reduction, then, achieve what it is actually trying to achieve? It is certainly a question of what it would be and should be considered carefully. I myself represented a thinking model in which a discount of this kind would have made more sense to make a one-off crash. The average price of the car would then have been reduced by this reduction of 200 million euros by about EUR 1500 to 2000. Now that it is done in four pieces, the change in car price is only a few hundred euros. Does it really have a bearing on the acceleration of the car trade, in my view? But I understand that this was precisely for fiscal reasons in this way. I also think it is worth considering whether it is time in Finland to give up the car tax altogether. In Finland, the car tax generates around 1 billion tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u101	Mr President! We have often had a debate in this Chamber on this car tax when we talked about the government's overall line of action, both in economic policy and then in value choices. It has then become clear that, although it is certainly good in itself, if there is room for a reduction in the car tax, but in practice there has now been such a situation that every time the government has been asked why the taxation of pensioners is made more unfair than that of an employee, or why train tracks are rolled out in the provinces and quite foolish savings are being made, at the same time, the government will be able to reduce the car tax by EUR 200 million during this parliamentary term, but never will there be enough money for those value choices to take care of children or the elderly. We have had a great deal of discussion on this. We also find it extremely worrying that these rail links are now being closed down in the provinces. So the Social Democrats have an objection to this in their own option: we would save some of the reduction in car tax,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u102	Mr President! Indeed, I do not quickly come up with a single tax on which there is no basis, even a crying argument. This is just the way it is that when you count something, you pick up more from somewhere else, because we still have to keep the police working, the defence of the country, the universities and education, and then you have to take care of each other. Value choices are made. The government has now made the choice of value that it will put this 200 million here on the car tax. Then it is ready to say that the money is out, that the EUR 200 million cut in unemployment security, and this time shocking, it is about small money, the abolition of VR's purchasing services, which means that VR will have to stop rail transport in central Finland — in the provinces, ladies and gentlemen. So value choices are also made in connection with this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u103	Mr President! The guidelines for car taxation were already in place in the mid-2000s. So, basically, that was the line we were going to try to drop down the car tax and introduce the tax focus. This is a very direct move from it, and I think there have been quite a few parties in the government during the time that this general line has been used. That's what this show is all about. I see, however, that we have the basic principles that this is seeking: environmental friendliness, safety. These same ones we have been using all along, when we were in the government together as the next government. So we've had the exact same arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u104	Mr President! This is not a solution that will be financed through cuts. This is part of the overall solution that the government is making for taxation, the economy and so on, Representative Heinäluoma called for this to be a question of value, a choice. Well, in the sense that even with your current support you must have family jobs, for example, as supporters of sparsely populated areas, this is significant to them that a new, better car can be bought. And the second value choice is, of course, environmental issues as well: this favours low-emission cars, which is subject to a higher tax reduction. For example, these two things now have a very good choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u105	Mr President! After all, everyone is in the final analysis a choice of values, and I feel that many Members of Parliament here swear in the name of equality and equality. Now, however, in the case of car tax and car related taxes, we need to assess little about how equal and equal people live and live in different parts of Finland. If what I think is right is that if I'm moving around in the capital region, then I can do it with public transportation and they actually work here. I pay between EUR 50 and EUR 100 per month, it is supported both through municipalities and through the state. But when we go there to the rest of Finland, public transport really does not work, our own car is compulsory, it replaces public transport. How fair is it that almost 8 billion taxes are collected from rubber wheel traffic, usually from road transport, and every 8 euros is returned to maintenance of a truly poor road system?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u106	Mr President! The car, this sacred tin cow, just keeps stirring up passions. Although these proposed amendments to the Automobile Tax Act are in the right direction for the environment and the fleet of vehicles, there is no reason, in the current economic situation, to introduce a reduction in tax types that do not have direct dynamic effects. In view of the expected reduction in specific CO2 emissions from cars, the tax on a medium-emission car would be approximately halved by 2020. This is very much in this economic situation. I believe that the tax reduction of EUR 31 million proposed by the government for next year should instead be targeted at measures which directly affect employment and, through it, also increase tax revenue, and I therefore propose that the car tax be kept at the current level. And, President-in-Office, this also means that the Swedish parliamentary group agrees with the opposition of the Left Alliance in relation to its efforts,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u107	Mr President! I find this somewhat contradictory that the Finns of Peru say here in the same speech that we have to take on more debt, but then at the same time it is strange that there is money, just out of the blue, 200 million specifically for the reduction of car tax in this situation. I am really confused about this situation for the Finns, because it cannot be true that during the previous Question Time the Finnish Minister is speaking here, that we now have to cut wages, now we have to cut wages. I hope that we in this House now remember that politics is always about value choices in the final analysis, and that is why, for example, we Social Democrats in our own alternative budget make value choices in such a way that we cut some of this reduction in car tax so that we in the provinces can secure rail links. You would also think that this issue is of interest, for example, to the representatives of the centre, who I am sure will
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u108	And now Mr Suutari and Mr Taavitsainen and then Mr Heinonen, who opened this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u109	Mr President! Eestilä intervened in this equality in the regions compared to, for example, this capital region, and this car tax is one of the factors that makes a difference. Today the news in Kainuu Sanomas was that when we have already turned a lot of asphalt roads into gravel there, now only two kilometres of renovations per year will be enough, and it will take about 2,000 kilometres a thousand years before even those roads can be refurbished. I hope we get to drive those cars there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u110	Mr President! The increase in vehicle tax proposed by the Government is directed directly at low-income users, especially those who use the vehicle under duress, especially in Finland, where public transport is much worse than in the capital region, and now the government's actions are further weakened. Many of these low incomes have a slightly older car at their disposal, which is now subject to higher taxes. Pensioners in particular need these for their shopping and pharmacy trips. The annual mileages will remain low, but the user charge will increase, unlike the new, high-income-owned Škoda Octavia, whose vehicle tax will not be raised at all next year, but at the same time they will drive several tens of thousands of kilometres a year and consume the road and grow carbon footprint several dozen times more than old cars. I consider this to be unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u111	Mr Majala again, and then Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u112	Mr President! After all, at first we were wondering what this job is, but now that we have studied it and thought about it, the values are certain environmental issues that we need to honestly start thinking about: how can we develop Finnish employment and Finnish environmental issues? And that is where we could start using our own energy resources, find new environmentally friendly fuels, so that we could really get jobs and activities here in Finland. And now all these expenses for walking: I know what it is to dwell far and far away, when the journeys are long. But I think this is going to make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u113	Mr President! A safe car is a value choice, a low-emission car is a value choice, and it is also a value choice that we want more and more Finns to have a more recent car, a low-emission car, a safer car. And that is why this change is being made to bring down the average age of our cars, which is the highest in Europe, 13.5 years. It is absolutely true, as Mrs Lintilä said, that the car tax always depends on how many cars are sold. But the vehicle tax is stable, so that is where the proceeds come from, as has already been the case with the socialists in the government, that is to say, moving the tax focus from buying a car to using it. This has been the big picture. But surely its objective must be to finally abolish the car tax in Finland and to achieve the same car prices as in other European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u114	Once upon a time, Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u115	Mr President! However, when Mr Heinonen referred to the demarine line and, earlier, Mr Lintilä spoke about the same thing, yes, honourable Members, we must recognise what is our economic situation at the moment. Everyone, I believe, believes that, of course, prefer cheaper cars for people, and the better, the safer and even less emission-free. But our main problem is this terrible unemployment situation we are in. And that is why — and here I agree with the first part of Mrs Wallin's speech, in which she said this very well — we must look at the focus of our tax policy. We would rather reduce the tax burden on labour through which new jobs are created than on imported cars. No expert whom we have heard — at least in the sense that I have been there — has supported this. But many have wondered,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u116	We're moving on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u117	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, we certainly do not have a different idea that the economic situation in our country is extremely challenging and serious and should be taken seriously, and the reduction in income tax is also at the top of Sipilä's government's taxation. In fact, Mr Heinonen has already introduced this law, which I was thinking of doing in that role as chairman of the tax section. But in fact these three points, which have come to light, are the reduction in the car tax, the increase in the vehicle tax, and then the change in the way in which these imported cars are taxed. Of course, this has been happening, as has already been the case, probably for over a decade now. And yes, the challenge for us will be that we have set up, quite rationally, with regard to the emissions of car tax, but technological development is constantly driving it down. At some point we will have to think about what changes we will make, because this will continue to have a very strong fiscal impact on us. And there is actually one reason why, even in this tight economic situation, it was decided to go to car tax, because at some point it is likely that future governments will have to react to it. And, of course, from the point of view of the car industry, the positive thing is that it has been estimated that this will be an additional sale of around 2000-2500 new cars, and, by including this scrapping premium, there is currently a reasonable situation on the car side. You can't underestimate and underestimate the employment effect. Then, very briefly, this situation of imported cars: This new provision states that imported cars used would not be taxed more than those imported to Finland at the same time. It is, of course, the fact that those people who seek correction now have to do it themselves, because it would have been a very heavy procedure, that Customs would have started to go through all that tax data, and the second reason is that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u118	Mr President! Speaking of value choices, the current representative, former Minister, Eero Heinäluoma presented to his day quite exactly ten years ago here — or in the house next door — the total abolition of the property tax in Finland. At the time, its revenue amounted to approximately EUR 120 million per year. Now that ten years have passed, that amount can be multiplied by 10 and is about 1.2 billion, perhaps more, because it also produced 150 million in the past. But then, without any consideration, without any justification, other than the fact that there were certain flaws in that tax system, the Social Democrats drove the abolition of the property tax completely and at once. It was a hand extension to the 40,000 richest people in Finland at the time, who, therefore, have largely received another billion on the basis of this choice of values in these years to roll in their pockets. After all, last season the government reduced corporate tax from 24.5% to 20%. There was good justification for this, because the economic situation is difficult in itself, i.e. the employment prospects and the situation, but on the other hand it has increased dividends briskly and one might ask whether it has brought jobs when the employment and economic situation today is what it is. These have been socialist policy and value choices in the last few years. Now the government has opted for a certain reduction in car tax. It targets those people who need a car, those workers who need a car at work or otherwise in their lives. It is a relief to their situation and increases their purchasing power for other purposes. This proposal is strongly justified by environmental factors by the government and, as the report and the government's proposal show, it favours low and medium-emission cars. In other words, in terms of environmental policy, this is a very good and necessary line in this situation, when environmental issues are falling very heavily on us. The second criterion is safety. We need to take care of transport safety all the time, and this will allow us to improve safety through the renewal of the car fleet. We have a fairly old fleet of cars, and that is a safety risk all the time. So, in this sense, the arguments are good. The third criterion is the employment criterion in so far as the motor vehicle trade in particular has been weak in recent years. This will secure jobs in the car sector, immediately 30,000 jobs in the sector and then, indirectly, 46,000. A significant amount. Of course, how much this affects them is always an estimate, but I would argue that as much as the withdrawal of the property tax from the Social Democrats ten years ago. Mr. Speaker! Finland has the highest car tax in the European Union and we will inevitably have to reduce the car tax in the coming years. Now the government has taken the four-year target and is doing it in a controlled way so that there will be no excessive — or, in fact, there will not be any — market failures that are always linked to this. In that sense, the procedure is well founded and wise. I believe that even the Socialist line was then ten years ago — when 2007 came into force these previous major reforms on car tax — to shift the tax burden from car purchase to its use. That is right in terms of environmental policy. In terms of regional policy, it may be a difficult procedure or there may be problems, but this is the line that has been chosen and well-founded. Mr. Speaker! This proposal in this form is not a reduction in state tax revenues, but it is a justified shift in car taxation and vehicle taxation in the direction that is generally desired to go here in Finland. In addition, this will increase the revenue from the car tax, because it will increase the sales of cars. The sale of between 2000 and 2500 new cars will increase road safety, but above all the return on car tax, and this must be taken into account in the assessment of this reform or change. All in all, from the point of view of the environment, safety, employment and those workers who are able to buy a new car when it is a little cheaper, this is a well-founded line, and this is not financed by any cost cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u119	We're going a little further on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u120	Mr President! The car tax will be reduced by EUR 200 million in favour of low-emission cars over four years at the 2019 level. In a car-intensive Espoo this is greeted with joy! The Central Association of Automotive Industries and Auto Importers have stated that the Government's proposal is very supportive of the objective of fleet renewal, reducing emissions from traffic and improving road safety. And considering that the proposal favours low-emission ones, there is, of course, reason to believe that the energy consumption and CO2 emissions of new cars will fall. Why do you not believe the experts, Mr Left? Is the private - driving Espo family such a big troll that saving the environment is also secondary? It seems that the demars have almost disappeared, the lone Harakka is still there, and there is a green one, and all the honour is also to Mr Vartia there. So the government is seeking a guiding influence here, and I think that is an excellent thing. If you think of the tax reduction itself in this economic sense, for a private person, then, for example, from Toyota Yar, which is one of the most common, the tax will fall by about EUR 600 over this four-year period, and then from Ford Focus by about EUR 900. Yes, I can see that these things do, although the amounts may sound small, in that way it means that it is money that families, workers and famous midwives can spend on other purposes. So I can see that this money will then find its way into the state chest in some other way. On the other hand, even car dealers are satisfied with this reform, precisely because it is staggered. Mr Heinonen is a little critical of that. I personally see that it is necessary for this reason. This will make the car trade comfortable throughout this four-year period and significant and sudden reductions in stock values will not occur. The reduction or even direct abolition of car tax before the elections was the goal of the Finnish People's Programme and also of my own election campaign in Uusimaa. This is what the government will do. Generally speaking, and on this issue too, it is great that the government takes the lead, is not afraid to take it and is going to take real decisions. It is therefore a good thing that now we are going to the turbulent and squares and that the situation is as far as immigration and the difficult economic situation are concerned, which is that one can say that the reduction in car tax is one of the thumbprints of the basic Finns, which has been achieved for the first time in government responsibility. And that is all underscored by the fact that Mr Viitanen is crying so much. Losing power in the Demari is a tough one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u121	Congressman Eestilä next. Representatives who have asked to speak are present in the Chamber. That is why I am not going to give answers now, because they would simply change the order of request that is currently on the list here. I mean, we're going with the list, and now we're going with Mr. Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u122	Mr President! Mobility is a fundamental human right. It is an absolute necessity: without movement a person is unable to do business, and without movement a person is unable to work. That is why, when this movement is a fundamental human right, I am looking a little at the car tax and this movement from a different point of view. As I said earlier in the speech, without any other confrontation, public transport in the capital region is functioning perfectly. Helsinki is one of the best cities in the international comparison where public transport operates. And if a municipal citizen uses a public vehicle here, he is supported both by the municipality and by the state. But when you go further, to other parts of Finland, to Eastern Finland and to Northern Finland, your own car is a necessity. Public transport either works badly there or does not work at all. In other words, in practice and in reality, your own car replaces the lack of public transport. If we look at this from the point of view of fairness, equality and equality, how justified do some colleagues here think it is that road transport costs close to EUR 8 billion are collected? Less than one billion will be returned to a very weak road, i.e. every 8 euro. The car tax alone and the tax on fuels will amount to EUR 6 billion, i.e. the person who is forced to travel in Eastern and Northern Finland by his own car will be subjected to huge tax collection. That money is being used elsewhere, that is to say, it is clearly a question of transfer and financing services from private motoring to those for whom it is compulsory. This is quite an interesting question, and it is worth considering this in more detail. Then I have to say that if the Social Democrats want to tax these people even more than the government does, that is a clear choice of values, it is worth noting. I think that taxation is really too high at the moment. Something must be done about this, and this government is at least doing something about it now by reducing taxation on motor vehicles. Of course, it must be noted that this is partly replaced by vehicle tax and taxes on boats and others, but not completely. If we take an example of this crash-car experiment: We are out of money, we in Parliament have given EUR 8 million in money, and now we are out of money. That is a clear indication of the way in which we reduce taxes and thus stimulate trade, in which way we stimulate markets, employment. And if you look a little at this balance, then the government has put 1000 euros per car in it and it has received an average of 3000 euros from each car dealership, and in my opinion the state has recovered 24 million euros of tax revenue from this EUR 8 million investment, and it makes 16 million on a net basis. In my opinion, quite good decisions have been taken in Parliament. The end result is that people have been able to buy safer cars that consume less and are better for the climate. So good decisions have been taken here, and this car tax reduction has certainly been necessary. As far as this car taxation in general is concerned, I must also say, with this praise, that car taxation has an extremely dark history in Finland. It contains infringements of the Member States, it contains illegal acts, and the most unusual situation is that Customs has been making incorrect administrative decisions for 15 years which have not been subject to the right to change. The Supreme Administrative Court has never granted a right of amendment to anyone in order to cancel the incorrect administrative decision taken by Customs under the Administrative Law. The law allows it to do so with more than five years, if the criteria are correct. If the criteria have to be particularly large, as the law dictates, I do not understand how there can be greater grounds than the fact that there is a breach of the Member States and that there is a state liability under the Supreme Court? I do not believe that there are much greater and, in a way, heavier arguments for people to have their money back, which they have collected illegally and contrary to European Community rules. Mr President! I very much welcome this reduction in car tax. Although it is relatively small, it has a clear line that we need to continue, so that people in Finland can then buy safer and cheaper cars. As for this high taxation in general, when many here are concerned that expensive cars are being bought by some, it must be remembered that expensive cars are a source of much tax for society. Even now, when this car taxation is too high, people buy these expensive cars abroad and every tax euro is not available in Finland. So envy takes the fish out of the lake. It also works here with regard to car taxation. What has been said here about these zero-emission cars is a very good line, but it must be said, for example, about electric cars, that they do not work there at long distances in Finland. Then there will be such a phenomenon that if they are unfairly favoured, then we will again encounter a rather bad problem of equality and equality, because here an electric car can manage but not elsewhere in Finland. Then this fuel taxation itself will begin to be the wrong way to collect tax, so that in any case something else must be done. Every day it becomes an unfair habit, in a way, of collecting taxes on the common treasury through fuel taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u123	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The last representative decided where I would start, so I came here to talk about electric cars. Vehicles using oil-based fuels are a significant source of harmful CO2 emissions both globally and in Finland. The constantly growing fleet of cars maintains and may even increase these problem emissions, even though developing technology manages to reduce car-specific emissions. A major start in reducing the problem emissions in the future — and already at the moment — can be offered by an electric car because its propulsion, i.e. electricity, is emission-free, clean and environmentally friendly. The electric car does not emit any CO2 emissions during driving. This will help to make a healthy contribution to the deterioration of air quality in large cities and, more generally, to reduce global warming due to transport emissions. In the case of electric cars, the term ‘battery electric cars’ refers to battery electric cars, where all the electrical energy necessary for driving has been stored in batteries in cars. The electric motor is energy efficient, quiet and simple. It does not produce exhaust gases and therefore CO2 emissions, and the energy it uses can be produced with renewable energy sources. The use of electric cars can therefore have a healthy effect, and that is very important today. In addition to electric cars, the so-called hybrid car, which has two different power sources, is also considered to be environmentally friendly. Mr President! The EU's clean transport objectives include the construction of infrastructure for electric cars. The Commission's proposal for a directive contains country-specific obligations for the construction of a charging network for electric cars. In addition, the Directive obliges, inter alia, country-specific measures to promote electric cars. Transport policies supporting electronic solutions can reduce transport emissions and improve air quality in cities through the reduction of particulate matter. In Finland, the generalisation of electric cars will be promoted in the coming years, including through the development of a distribution network, the impact on EU vehicle legislation, the development of information and guidance, and, where necessary, the development of financial guidance. The aim is for electric cars and other alternative power stations to account for 50% of all new passenger cars sold in 2020 and 100% in 2030. During the last parliamentary term, I took a bill in which I proposed the abolition of the car tax on electric cars. I also called for a variety of carrots and incentives, such as those in Estonia, Norway and Denmark. It is unfortunate that this bill, which is now under discussion, does not take a stand on electric motoring. I myself would have allowed the electric car tax to have also been revised. It is, of course, low at the moment — it is 5.0 — but I think it could be completely removed. This government proposal is a good one, and it gives a great deal of ground to the emission-free and low-emission and healthy transport that we want. We always talk about what kind of carbon dioxide footprint we leave behind, but perhaps one day we will have a footprint in which electric cars are also involved, and in that way we can inspire citizens to move to electric cars, despite the fact that Finland is a large country and, of course, there must be charging points and car technology development. Battery technology is developing all the time and these incentives will then inspire these people to develop better technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u124	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi spoke very beautifully about ecology, and this is not quite the usual of his party, so he listened to it for a change for his pleasure. But, as has been said in this Chamber, the reduction in car tax in this budgetary situation is completely irresponsible. The State will waste EUR 200 million during the parliamentary term. They cannot be used to support pensioners' housing, day care for children or employment. And Mr Elo has now lost credibility as a representative of central government finances, deficits and indebtedness. After all, the government is living on debt and plans to take over EUR 300 million more debt than this year. So this reduction in car tax has been made with debt money: you are in debt from abroad so that some can buy new cars at a little lower price. There's been a lot of recollection here ten years ago. It can then be remembered and wondered what happened a little more recently, where came from this sudden need to lower the car tax — that is, the purchase of new cars — in this difficult budgetary situation. Where did such an irresponsible decision come from? Well, in the run-up to the election, a party promised to abolish the car tax altogether. I do not remember whether it was before or after the party promised that the Greek spike would be closed or that immigration would stop, but it was just as sacred a promise anyway. Well, here is the difference between Greece's debts and immigration, but the car tax is indeed falling. But the price of this thumbprint was quite expensive for this party — one might say that they were even tricked. After all, the reduction in the car tax will be paid by raising the vehicle tax. Those ordinary people who drive, for example, on bad roads in rural areas with big cars, high-emission cars, and who really cannot afford to buy a brand-new car will lose hundreds of euros — ordinary low-income Finns. The vehicle tax itself is good for the environment and favours electric cars such as the Prime Minister's, which is great and progressive, but I think that the supporters of this party did not put these green targets at the top of the list. So this party made driving for its own supporters more expensive, and it remains to be seen how expensive it is for this party. As I said, the reduction in car tax is completely irresponsible in this particular situation of public finances. At the same time, the government is cutting public transport support from where the connections are already under threat, and in this way, among other things, it is carrying out Mr Estilä's prediction that motoring is the only alternative where public transport stops. This is a self-fulfilling forecast. Therefore, the SDP has argued that part of the reduction in the car tax would be invested in securing VR’s purchasing traffic. The same government, which has advertised here that it is very much listening and negotiating, has immediately said harshly — this listening and negotiating minister, Mr Stubb — that this is not acceptable. We are renewing this offer for public transport. And the electric cars. I was very pleased to hear Mrs Juvose's speech, which is also not quite typical of her reference group. The sad fact is that electric cars have not become more common on Finnish roads. We Members of Parliament, who are part of this energy renovation group, have set out the objective that in 2030 Finland will have 200,000 electric cars. That's only 10% of the whole car fleet, too. But even at this point, it must be said that the government is not promoting the spread of electric cars. Already during the previous government term, a campaign was launched in which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy supported the company’s electric car drive by offering a 30% discount. Now, of course, there was room for a reduction in car tax, but this important individual, which is a specific measure on behalf of electric cars, was not enough for 5 million or less. This programme has now virtually been discontinued when it had just started. On the ecological grounds as desperate as this reduction in car tax has now been defended, it has to be said that this government does not excel in environmental matters, but also in the economic rationality of the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u125	Madam President! Now that we are talking about the taxation of motor vehicles and about value choices — all the debates here and the decisions here are value choices. They can also be made in your own life. I myself have made a value selection by getting an electric car spoken here about a year and a half ago. And with this experience, I can say that that technology is real, it is real. Besides that, it's superior. The power you can get out of an electric car is quite different. The electric car is silent. Traveling by electric car is very cheap. Their range is constantly increasing. The government would have a good opportunity to influence how transport becomes cleaner. Transport is one of the most important sources of emissions and we can quickly reduce these emissions with current technology by giving them incentives to consumers. In Norway, when the taxes on electric cars were virtually zeroed, free parking was provided for them, the toll was removed and they were also allowed to drive on the bus lane, and then Tesla, over EUR 100,000, broke the record for all time. Of course, it can be said that there is money in Norway, but not everyone there has money. This is only an indication that the decisions taken here have an impact on the kind of car the consumer wants to buy. Well, why the electric car? It is quite clear that the range is not as long, because an electric car can be driven simply because the wind blows. Why the electric car? For example, if all traffic in Finland were converted to electricity, it would take about 10 terawatt hours of energy on an annual basis. Today, traffic consumes about 55 terawatt hours a year — an electric car is so much more efficient. In addition to this, it is clean where necessary: it can act as a preserve for example for this wind energy, which makes it possible to invest much more in it. I would ask you to be more ambitious in this respect, because with this proposal, which has now come from the government, zero-emission cars are not taxed at all. I talked a lot about electric cars, but there are zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u126	Mr President! The costs of driving — we would all like to get them down. Especially in our family, when those expenses are the biggest expense for our family. First of all, the purchase costs are the highest. Then there are insurance, taxes, fuel costs, repairs, maintenance. All the time, there's expenses and expenses. And especially if you have an older car, that's the cost, because the poor can't really afford to keep it. That is why we should get as many newer cars as possible, with less fuel consumption, and we could use cheaper fuels, new fuels, environmentally friendly fuels, and, above all, they would be safe new cars. But it always wonders that when small incomes live in our family too — well, I now have a little better income here, but the expenses are higher than that, but for other family members — you have to have newer cars to keep them in order. But then why do I live out there? I have heard many people say that you come out of there, you are only there to spoil the environment and you have no reason to drive, come where you have better public transport connections. But when it happens to be that we live on the land of my husband's family. We are engaged in reindeer husbandry, agriculture, forestry, that is, industries that cannot be carried out here. Nothing can be done without having vehicles that are reliable, and we know that we will certainly survive the same day back from that nature and the environment. The car fleet is being rejuvenated by this decision. So it is not easy, and especially in this current economic situation, to make such presentations and these to take forward then. But this is a long-term performance, though. On the whole, taxation must not encourage the repair of car wrecks, and this will, at least in the right way, lead to this tax. Then on this movement taxation: It is a fact that if the whole of Finland is to be regarded as a resident, we must have the courage to talk about the taxation of private cars, the cost of using private cars. Of course, public transport is an important issue for all of us, but where I live there is no way that public transport can manage that area. We've got that school car running a couple of times a day, and that's it. For example, if I want to come to Rovaniemi, about 200 kilometres away, I want to come here to Parliament, then it will not just be carried by public transport. I've got to have a car, a reliable car that I'm driving in the meantime. Now, on these various tax issues, we have been intimidated all the time by increasing fuel taxation or reducing travel expenses. These are the ones that would empty the countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u127	Mr President! The reduction in car tax proposed by the government is an important step in the right direction. Today, only slightly over 100,000 cars are sold annually in Finland, with a significant decrease compared to the early 2000s. As a result of this negative development, Finland has a fleet of cars from the oldest end of Europe. In particular, the reduction in car tax will be particularly significant from this point of view. It is not just a question of economic values but also of environmental and health values. The reduction in the car tax applies to low-emission cars, which emit less than 140 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre. This is a step in the right direction from an environmental point of view. The EU target is 95 grams per kilometre, and the tax change will make it significantly easier to achieve this target, and it should be achieved by 2020. At the same time, as the car fleet regenerates, road safety will improve substantially and the number of accidents will decrease. In this way, it makes sense to expect savings as the costs of accident management are reduced. Of course, it is difficult to measure the reduction in human suffering in money. I also believe that Mr Haraka will share this view despite his criticism. Mr President! The reduction in the car tax will be carried out gradually over four years. Such a gradual reduction will mitigate market failures and will allow the car trade not to collapse as buyers wait for the tax reductions to enter into force. It is also worth noting that the fall in the price of new cars should improve employment in the car trade. Under no circumstances should this employment impact be underestimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u128	Madam President! In that speech, the representative Harakka wondered what I had to say about the promotion of electric motoring. He mentioned that my speech came from an atypical reference group. I am forced to sign now, unfortunately he is no longer here: Mr Harakka was not here in the previous period when I actually made a bill about it, in which I proposed a reduction in the car tax on electric cars as well as a reduction in the power tax on electric cars. In my opinion, Mr Savio said this very well, and I wonder what word I would use — health values. When I was living in the city centre of Helsinki and I said that it was bad air quality and I was horrified by the situation, for example, in asthmatics and the elderly, who I treated in my work at the time, how they experienced that air quality, and I thought that this was something we should all speak for and act on. Then in politics, no matter what color jersey it is on top of it here, good things are being taken forward. I think that if someone is very important, that we should be able to reduce the emissions of particulate matter, especially in urban areas. Of course, there are more to these carrots than that, and electric cars in the capital region in particular are becoming more common. However, much remains to be done. For example, housing companies should be supported when investing in parking garage renovations to make it possible for electric cars to be charged on every screen. This is the kind of thing that I have received a lot of contacts about this both during the previous period and this season: that in Helsinki people, whether they are green or ecologically thinking, would like to move into an electric car, or even have a common car in the building company. It is good to develop these different models. That is why we are here, despite the framework in which we work here, to make good openings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u129	Madam President! I think that the positive thing about this car tax reduction is that we are lowering the car tax on low-emission cars. That means that these cars will be cheaper and then the prices of used cars will be lower and this will mean that the car fleet will be renewed and even those people who do not have very much money available for the car trade will have access to safer and less-emission cars. There are many sectors where progress is being made. This electric car has come up. If we ask the car dealer today what happens, there is considerable pressure on the purchase of loaded hybrid cars. So, from the point of view of the market, people are already choosing the electric car, the hybrid to be charged. We have long distances and yet the infrastructure involved in charging these clean electric cars is so inadequate that it cannot yet become more widespread on a large scale, but in any case they will come, regardless of what we think. Battery technology develops, car prices come down as product development moves forward. Yes, this future is for electric cars, and hopefully for biodiesel too, when at least the domestic energy level of passenger car traffic starts knocking something like 90%. Then we are already on the right track, as it were, from the point of view of the trade balance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u130	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Maijala for her excellent speech. This is the great thing about this Finnish Parliament that we are from different backgrounds in Finland, and even though such an Espoo city dweller just praised the reduction of the car tax, there can also be a representative of Lapland, and even this city dweller can understand the representative of Lapland here, when my mother is from Pello, near the Tornio River Valley in Lapland. This is the great side of this Parliament. As far as this criticism by Mr Haraka is concerned, I find it strange that there is an economic criticism in the sense that it seems to me that the Social Democrats are not good enough for any government proposal. Yes has become this kind of red non-party gradually demarcation. Of course, it seems to be pleasing to some part of the population, but I am able to believe that during this three and a half years, when this government is in operation and takes its course forward, the people will see that it is good and produces good results. Mr Harakka also pointed out the need to invest in public transport and their alternative programme wants to focus on public transport in particular. That's good. There's no problem with that from the government's point of view either. We also want public transport to be supported and reformed. But if I think of myself as just a northerner, yet as a cityer, but as a northerner, we do have public transport at the moment, but it is unhelpably weak. My wife worked in Vantaa a few years ago, and three hours would have taken the bus every day to work in two directions. So we did have the situation at the time that either we use it for three hours on the bus every day or we get a private car, and we get a private car. This is not just a matter of thinking that public transport alone will take care of its situation, even here in the capital region. Both are needed, new low-emission cars are needed, and then sensible well-managed public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u131	Madam President! In this context of dealing with the Automobile Tax Act, the opposition now seems to be extremely concerned about public transport in rural areas. Of course, it is positive and positive. But when I have listened to experts in that province, the Seinäjoki-Haapamäki-Jyväskylä- ja Tampere-Haapamäki-Keuruu railway sections, which are now being cut off from passenger traffic, all these market-based public transport will take over, flexible transport operated by buses. Society saves. You don't have to keep trains on the tracks that are in a certain place, but buses can drive where people are. So this is positive news now from the Ely Centers in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u132	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u133	Madam President! It's not often you get to present a law that hopefully has to go away. This report is therefore a unanimous report by the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance on waste tax. And why is this going to go away, so we always get rid of this waste problem, because it is, after all, an incentive-type environmental tax, with the primary aim of reducing landfilling of waste. This has now been estimated at 3.5 million returns for next year, and then 5 million forward, but this is quite difficult to estimate, because now, if we look at the overall reform that took place in 2011, then this waste tax has halved. So you can say that this is a relatively successful tax. And even though it is now being raised, one can say that, as a percentage, a lot of EUR 55 per tonne is still below the EU average for waste tax. Of course, there are minor shortcomings here too, which means that plastics are not included in this. This does not encourage you, but it does not prevent plastic recycling. It is hoped that a new situation will now be reached there because of the new ban on landfilling organic waste. What came up in the expert hearings here was this so-called storage of waste, because it is now in a situation where three years can be tax-free storage of these waste, and this has previously been on the Customs side, but now it has been transferred to the environmental authorities. The section and the committee wanted to point out to the ministry that they will come together, Customs and the Ministry of the Environment, then ensure that this control of this storage will also be properly carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u134	Mr President! Finnish waste legislation is based on the need to encourage the production of waste as little as possible. Rarely have I commended taxes, but now this is directly aimed at reducing the amount of waste in such a way as to increase taxes. And only when that raise is sufficient and visible does it really matter to people's behavior.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u135	Madam President! There has been some criticism of the Sipilä Government that environmental policy has not been mentioned in the Government Programme as forcefully as it could be, but on the other hand we must remember that the Government's programme is a strategic programme and then the Government implements it in other ways in practice. This proposal, although, of course, it is largely fiscal, nevertheless shows that the government is pursuing a responsible environmental policy, and this is where waste is concerned. This development will make it possible for us not to produce waste in the next few years, but to feed off the reduction in the amount of waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u136	Mr President! As Mr Kankaaniemi has just pointed out, the increase in waste tax is yet another logical step in government policy, which, on the one hand, raises harmful taxes and, on the other hand, lowers taxes which contribute to employment, as the government's tax reliefs set out as an example. As stated in these explanatory notes to the committee's report, waste tax is a typical incentive-type environmental tax. After all, the waste tax now rises from EUR 55 to EUR 70 per tonne, but, on the other hand, it must be noted that the revenue from the waste tax was around EUR 64 million in 2011, even though the waste tax was significantly lower per tonne — that is, much more waste than it was at present. The estimate for this year is EUR 33 million and, following this increase in waste tax, only EUR 25 million for next year. This shows that the waste tax has a very strong steering effect and is likely to eventually eat itself away. I consider this to be an extremely good development, and I believe that this bill is also acceptable to the opposition as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u137	Madam Speaker! It's a good show. However, care must be taken and remember that the growing mountain of waste can be insurmountable in its own home for people who do not know where to take its waste mountains. They may wonder that the prices at landfills are too high for them, and that is why waste ends up in nature. So this is in the capital region, this is also a problem in urban areas, that in the middle of nature there may be such landfill-type places where people have taken their waste. This is something we need to follow and consider how we could then intervene and bring about the proper care of every human being for its waste in its places. And again, how can we learn to live in such a way that we produce as little waste as possible and everything we produce would be as much useful and recyclable as possible, because that is how we can preserve this earth. Otherwise, we can really think about having a waste mountain in our backyard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u138	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u139	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was adopted unanimously. This law proposes to introduce new laws on Keva, the financing of state pension provision and the financing of pension provision for the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Therefore, the Act on Spring brings together the provisions on the administration, financing and supervision of Keva currently contained in the Municipal Pensions Act. This proposal relates to the pension reform to come into force in 2017, which is now before Parliament and which has already been the subject of a report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. So these separate laws are being brought together. Thus, it is proposed to combine the pension laws of municipalities and the state, the Evangelical Lutheran Church and the pensions of the employees of Keva into one new public sector pension law. This reform lays down a number of different provisions for this bill. Among other things, the eligibility criteria of the CEO and Vice President of Keva, as well as the eligibility criteria of the Board of Directors and its members are also laid down. The committee considered it appropriate that these provisions currently contained in the Keva Statute and the administrative provisions should now be brought to the level of the law. The committee also considered that the role of Ms Keva in implementing statutory social security and managing significant pension funds requires transparency and compliance with the principles of good governance. For this reason, it was also noted that the provisions now being proposed, inter alia, on risk management and internal control and control, are mainly responsible for the provisions of the Employment Pension Insurance Company Act. According to the Government's proposal, in the future, the Financial Supervisory Authority would be responsible for an audit of Keva's financial planning and investment activities, and then the Ministry of Finance would be responsible for other supervision of Keva's operations. We heard experts on this issue, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also stated in its opinion that the rights and responsibilities of these authorities and the institutions should be consistent and balanced. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy pointed out that clarity and clarity of controls would be in the interests of all parties involved. It therefore appears that the proposal leaves this unclear state of affairs at the interface between supervision provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory Authority, in which respect the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy then requires that the functioning of the provisions be closely monitored and, if necessary, the provisions clarified. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as the committee giving the report, states that the supervision of Keva's investment activities must be comprehensive and possible interfaces under the supervision of investment and administration should be reduced. However, given the nature of Keva's future activities and the amount and quality of the funds to be managed, these supervisory rights and responsibilities should, in future, constitute a clear whole that such an unclear area would not remain. Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it necessary to examine the effectiveness of the controls and then make possible changes to the rules on the basis of the reports. Otherwise, there will be no major changes to the proposal, but as the composition of the Keva administrative bodies is now being evaluated in the future, the committee believes that these possible changes to these provisions on the composition of administrative bodies should be examined how these could now be clarified. And now that Keva's duties have been extended to include the state, the church and the implementation of pension provision for Kela's employees, the committee believes that it would also be necessary to clarify the representation of the state, the church and Kela in the Keva administration. Which means this will remain in the work to come. Consequently, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health presents this government's proposal on 2nd and 3rd legislative proposals without amendment, and this 1st legislative proposal will be subject to technical changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u140	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u141	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen present! Thank you very much to all of you, and also to those who have been here today, to 105 who have signed this bill that I have taken. And thank you also to those who signed this bill in the previous period, for this initiative is a repetition of the last period. But as we all know, this matter does not get old. I looked back at the past parliamentary periods and noticed that there have been legal initiatives in favour of this issue and similar ones in the past. In that sense, many have felt that something should be done about matters, and so are the citizens and the general sense of justice. When you ask the citizen what you think, whether the punishments that have been given, among other things, are equivalent to the serious crimes of child abuse, they say 'no'. This bill proposes that the minimum penalty for serious sexual abuse offences against children be increased to at least two years of imprisonment, i.e. equal to gross rape offences. The aim of the initiative is to improve the position of the child through a more appropriate punishment procedure and to harmonise the practice of punishment in serious sexual abuse offences against children. In recent years there have been reports of numerous cases of aggravated sexual abuse committed as a sentence of conditional imprisonment. This is due to the fact that, in the case of a conviction for gross sexual abuse of a child, a minimum penalty may in principle be imposed on a conditional basis. According to our criminal code, a minimum sentence for aggravated rape is at least two years in prison. When a child is subjected to serious sexual abuse, the minimum penalty is less severe, even though children are often more defenceless than adults. An increase in the minimum sentence for two years in serious sexual abuse of a child would harmonise the practice of punishment in serious cases and would give an appropriate signal of the true seriousness of the crime, when it would no longer be possible to condemn conditional imprisonment. Mr President! My bill seeks to review the level of punishment for serious sexual offences and to ensure that the penalties for crimes are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the offence. The impact of the legislative proposal is social. The reprehensibility of sexual crimes against children is highlighted, and their protection of fundamental and human rights and their sexual sovereignty is improved. Mr President! We also have a citizens' initiative on this subject at the moment in Parliament. We had a referral discussion about it a while ago. It was a great thing to note that the citizens' initiative on this issue also ended up in Parliament. At the end of October, we were at the Nordic Council meeting in Reykjavik, and it was great to have the opportunity to speak there and talk about the Finnish citizens' initiative. However, here I would like to highlight the difference between the legislative initiative and the citizens' initiative. Indeed, last season I took this bill, it went to the Ministry for a consultation. The Ministry responded by monitoring the situation and, if necessary, making the necessary changes. But even if there are more than a hundred signatures in the bill, it will not go any further than it has been in the referral debate, when it has gone to the committee and then it has gone to the ministry with a possible opinion, but the citizens' initiative is always moving forward. The citizens' initiative listens to experts and deals with them for a long time. It can even be carried forward. We have, among other things, an equal marriage law here, which has progressed to the law. In that sense, I wonder how we could somehow equalise the legislative initiatives and the citizens' initiatives taken by the MPs in such a way that they approach one another, how we could also, in a way, gain a greater place in the legislative initiatives taken by the MPs. I think it is a great thing that, now that we have a citizens' initiative, it is also backed up by this bill, and it will make this issue more effective and effective. We also have a government which has also expressed its will in the government record to check, among other things, the penalty scales for these crimes. And indeed, thank you all for being here and giving the floor. It's all in common, and I'm really happy that we're at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u142	Madam President! I fully agree with Mr Juvonen on both the debate on citizens' initiatives and legislative initiatives and on the content of this bill. In my view, it is now important to hold a debate in Parliament on the way in which the citizens' initiative system should be developed. We are coming here for the first time for a counter-citizen's initiative which has already been adopted, and such a cycle may arise that, even within the same year, we will be dealing with these several times. Secondly, that we have two legislative initiatives before us today, both of which have received the signature of more than 100 MPs in the last period. In other words, the majority of the MPs elected by the Finnish people are in favour of these legislative initiatives, but nevertheless they do not receive much treatment or value in Parliament. In my opinion, it would be right and reasonable for them to be dealt with at least with the same scope and depth as citizens' initiatives and then to be made a report on them. Of course, the outcome of the report could be that progress is being made or not made and then put to the vote. Mr President! It'll take me more than two minutes to get there? [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : On the other hand. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u145	Mr President! In Finland, the parliament regulates penalty scales for offences, within which the independent judiciary condemns them. Unfortunately, according to the case law of our own life, our system has begun to live, regardless of the will of the legislator. In practice, this means that crimes are not judged on the scale prescribed by the legislator, or even on the average, but on the basis of previous convictions, in practice, from a certain point of view. It is about attitudes, not the law — that is what I would like to draw attention to. It is well established for us that, for example, cases of fraud and drug offences are handed down from the top of the scale but from the bottom of the scale for crimes relating to life and health. Short and even conditional rape convictions are perhaps the saddest single example of this. Especially in violent crimes, convictions are often given on a scale that people find difficult to understand. It violates the public's sense of justice. Unfortunately, for us legislators, the only way to influence convictions is to increase the minimum sentence for crime scales. The legislative initiative in question seeks to ensure by the legislator that serious sexual abuse of a child is always committed to absolute imprisonment. No responsible decision-maker can agree that a conditional prison sentence for such an act is reasonable. Mr President! As the courts judge conditional judgments on these very serious crimes, it is the legislator’s duty to ensure that this is no longer possible. I warmly support the draft law and hope that this will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u146	Madam President! Sexual abuse and rape offences are the cruelest crimes. A particularly cruel thing to do is to target a helpless and defenseless child. After the act, the victim survives physically, but often mentally dies. The younger the child, the longer he carries in his body and, above all, the scars left behind in his mind, scars that no one would feel coming to his child or loved one. In legal literature, the main objective of the punishment is often defined as special protection and generality. Special protection means that the offender is excluded from society for a limited period so that he cannot continue his criminal activities. Universality often means that punishment serves as a warning example to others: if you do this, you will receive such a punishment. A normal person is careful not to be punished and thus deliberately avoid breaking the law. Under the current law, aggravated sexual abuse of a child is sentenced to imprisonment for at least one year and up to 10 years. Under the law still in force, a maximum of 2 years of imprisonment may be sentenced on probation unless specific reasons require unconditional imprisonment — that is, as a rule conditional, unless specific reasons otherwise require. The draft law under discussion aims to change the penalty scale so that the minimum sentence for serious sexual crimes against children is at least 2 years in prison. The maximum penalty would remain the same. If Parliament adopts the bill, the law will be much more effective when it comes into force in terms of speciality and generality. Madam President! As a signatory to the bill, I am in favour of adopting the bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u147	Madam President! The gross sexual abuse of a child is murder, an act that, according to Finnish criminal law, results in imprisonment, and also an act that does not age. A couple of weeks ago, I got a call from a woman my age in Lapland. He told me about what he's been through. By the way, it was awful to listen to. He said tell me this story of his, his business, what it was all about. She told me how she was abused when she was 9 to 12 years old until her period began. He told me that there are eight women in the vicinity who have been exploited by this man. The offence has become obsolete under the current legislation because under the current legislation, the sexual abuse of a child will expire when the person concerned, in this case a female person, has turned 27 or 28, either. But this woman told me that only when she was 35 was she dared to open her mouth. He had simply not been able to tell or talk about this matter. This was a truly shocking story to hear how this woman has now only reached my age, well over 40, with various treatments. He's had a lot of conversations with professionals since then to keep up with it and survive. Among other things, he has not dared himself to have a child because he does not get over it, because he has been murdered in his childhood. The man who did this, who did this to many children, has never had to suffer for this deed in any way. She's still living a normal life. This man told this girl when she was a child that this would only do you good, that you must not tell anyone about this, and the child certainly did not dare to tell anyone about it. He couldn't have known what was right and what was wrong. All he knew was that this felt kind of bad about this. Later, this girl’s father found out about this. Dad was the first to ask his girl why you never told us this. The girl said I wanted to protect you, because you would have gone after that man, and the father said that I would have killed that man if I had known what he had done to my child. So this story that I told, though abbreviated by it, was what this girl herself told, or a woman, to me from her childhood and her youth. How can we prevent these — at least the least is that every person must understand that it is murder, it is an act that causes such great problems for a person that it must also be punished high enough. The fact that you can get away with this kind of act on a conditional basis cannot be a modern day. Small penalties like this don't get you anywhere. There must be a clear message on how to move forward with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u148	Madam President! The bill proposes that the minimum sentence for aggravated sexual abuse offences against children be increased to at least two years in prison, that is, equal to that for aggravated rape offences. The aim of the initiative is to improve the position of the child through a more appropriate punishment procedure and to harmonise the practice of punishment in serious sexual abuse offences against children. I thank Mrs Juvo for this important and very timely initiative. Personally, I consider the minimum sentence of two years proposed in the initiative to be far too low. Firstly, because sexual abuse against children is extremely repugnant and disgusting, and secondly because our prisons are far too good places for these criminals, they seem to be resorting to holiday destinations. I hope that this hardening of penalties will take place as soon as possible and, among other things, in the case of immigrants who do these in relation to the general population much more, more penalties will be imposed on those responsible for sexual offences: whether they be directed at adults or children, they must immediately stop the expulsion decision without the right of appeal. I'm in favour of Juvose's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u149	Mr President! I welcome this bill with joy and I sincerely hope that it will come through. As Mrs Juvonen pointed out in her opening speech, the raising of the minimum level of punishment for the gross sexual exploitation of a child is likely to be very clear in terms of the public's general sense of justice and will. The role of legislation is to protect the rights of the most vulnerable citizens, and I believe that this is particularly important when it comes to child abuse. As Mr Hongisto has just pointed out, the victim is easily scarred for life. Similarly, Mrs Maijala's report was touching and showed that a conditional punishment is in no way sufficient for the perpetrator. Mr President! I would like to thank all the signatories to the bill and, of course, the author of it. I think it is an extremely good development that the majority of this House seems to be in favour of tightening the penalty scale for violent and sexual crimes in general. I would also appeal to Parliament to exercise the power conferred on it and to adopt this bill. It would increase the authority of the whole parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u150	Mr President! The initiative presented is indeed along the same lines as the citizens' initiative that was tabled this autumn. Both are to be welcomed. Even if some court rulings could rightly be criticised, especially as regards the application of certain mitigating criteria, the main responsibility lies with us legislators. Parliament must finally take care of this. In fact, the initiative does not even call for very large changes to existing legislation, only those that eliminate the most flagrant shortcomings. Often, the demands for increased penalties are opposed to austerity, that is to say, not to become too many prisoners. However, by adopting this initiative, the number of criminals going to prison would not increase very much, for even today, the majority of gross sexual abuse of a child has fortunately been condemned as absolute. Yet, even these gross forms of conduct are still subject to conditional penalties. It is not in line with the rule of law that in 2015 conditional punishment may have been imposed, for example, on a series of long-standing sexual offences, including sexual intercourse, where the victim was 6 years old at the beginning of the acts. In Finland, crimes against property have been subject to severe historical sentences. This comes from a time when people generally had few possessions. Sexual offences have been examined mainly by the extent to which physical violence has been committed. There is no understanding of the specific nature of sexual crimes and their devastating effect on the human psyche. Even a short - term act that does not necessarily leave direct physical injuries can mentally cripple the victim at the end of his life. Just like I said in my last speech, it's about the murder of a child. If the criminal code is ever reformed more widely, there might also be reason to reflect on the importance of these offences. However, the word 'use of good' is a little understatement and creates a consensus that it is just a pat. However, at least in the case of the most outrageous acts, there could be reason to talk about rape of a child, these acts being some of the most terrible crimes that can be. Thank you to Mr Juvonen for this work, which you have taken to take forward this initiative. I really hope that the committee will take this on board, because the committee will be able to deal with it with the idea that this law will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! From the bottom of the heart, thank you all for your contributions and also for the thanks you have said. You will see that this issue and the subject are common. There were also moving speeches, and Mrs Maijala's speech was very touching. During the previous season, when this initiative was here during the previous reading, I was contacted by a mother who told me that her daughter had cried and said that now I just feel that someone is listening to me. So people had found and discovered that the matter had been moved forward. Of course, I am not the only one here, as I have already said, that years ago many initiatives have been taken here in this regard. We could also consider the question of interpretation when we have in criminal law that rape against a person under the age of 18 is always a serious rape, and then it is a two-year sentence. That, too, is what I have been wondering if all these aggravated abuse crimes would then be interpreted as rapes. If that were the case, then this law would already be in force. In other words, as Mrs Majala mentioned or someone here: with very small changes we could correct this. And I do feel that we have a state of will here, and that is the legal aspect, that in what way this can be promoted. And yes, I must also say that the citizens' citizens' initiative, which they brought here, is a fine gesture. So they took up the matter that did not necessarily progress with our powers here, they did it because they brought their own initiative, and then they made their voices heard as well. And it is the will of the people for that initiative that shines through. I hope that we will now deal with these in such a way that we will have a good result. But thank you all so much.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u152	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u153	Mr President! When this unprecedented wave of asylum seekers began in our country, there has been a great deal of wonder why asylum seekers cannot immediately be employed and even obliged to work, to take responsibility for their presence here. My initiative proposes to amend the Aliens Act so that a foreigner who has applied for international protection has the right to work without a residence permit as soon as he arrives in Finland. Today this kind of foreigner is allowed to work in Finland only after a certain time limit. This time limit is 3 months if he has a travel document enabling him to cross the border pursuant to Article 11(1) of the Aliens Act. Otherwise, his right to take up gainful employment will not begin until after a stay of 6 months. We live in a very difficult financial period in Finland. At the moment, we are going to have to make some very difficult cuts. We simply cannot afford to pay a large number of displaced, idle asylum seekers, the majority of immigrants who happen to have men of working age and capable of working. People have been surprised why asylum seekers in Finland cannot start working immediately. If these time limits were to be lifted, a foreigner could immediately be admitted to gainful employment if he applied for protection. This right would remain with him until the process of seeking asylum has been completed. If the refugee status or residence permit were granted, the right to work would continue under the relevant provisions. If, of course, permission to remain in the country is not granted, the person concerned will have to leave after the authorisation process has ended and the right to work will also cease. If this bill were to be implemented, the objective would not, of course, remove the greater problems that are now at hand. However, as the number of asylum seekers has increased dramatically, it is justified to consider the conditions for access to employment for asylum seekers. Employment is often a necessary prerequisite for adapting to society. Active employment of immigrants and, in particular, the inclusion of the least-employed groups of immigrants in the labour market would also help to reduce the tensions that exist between the general population and immigrants. It is the first months of integration that are the most important. The protests have said, on the one hand, that Finland says welcome and, on the other hand, that the borders are closed. I do not want to welcome the whole world here without conditions, nor do I want our borders to be closed. I want it to be controlled to come to Finland. Whether an immigrant or an asylum seeker, the essential thing is that he wants to work according to his powers and that he is also given the opportunity to do so. I have also tabled a work package for asylum seekers in the past. I made it an initiative for action. It could consist of different forms of employment that could be applied, for example, through student training systems, employment of disabled people and apprenticeships, with models of this kind. In line with their background and training, employed asylum seekers could be in the workplace as apprentices, for example. The allowances for working time should not be large, as they are not currently available to students when they are in training. After all, asylum seekers are students of Finnish life, practicing life in Finland. Language training could take the form of online training alongside work. The detailed explanatory statement of the Government's proposal 28/2003 on the Aliens Act states: "The use of the work input of applicants for international protection is often appropriate not only for the asylum seeker himself but also for the employer and society. Employment reduces or eliminates the need for income support. Applicants for international protection normally do not have a residence permit or a visa." These arguments are still valid. Instead, the time limit laid down in this same paragraph is no longer necessary in a changed environment. The initiative I have taken must not be tempting, because it seems that there have already been enough of them in Finland, but this initiative will be felt as an obligation to take responsibility for its own life here in Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u154	Mr President! The bill probably means good, but the outcome in the real world will not necessarily be good. This change could add another attraction to those seeking asylum without justification. A rumor could spread to the countries of origin that in addition to all other good things, Finland can start working right away. Work and good social security — go to Finland. We know that the vast majority of asylum seekers do not need protection, but are looking for a better standard of living. Those who need real protection should integrate more quickly and at lower costs into Finnish society. What will happen to them if we create a bypass for everyone else? There is also a risk in the bill that non-language skilled workers will be exploited and labour conditions trampled on. We are not known to have a shortage of labour, but a shortage of cheap labour. Mr President! I therefore call on Parliament to give serious consideration to possible shortcomings in the examination of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u155	Mr President! What has been said here is, in a certain way, the abandonment of labour needs. After all, the Government Programme stated that "when justified in terms of employment and public finances, enabling the acceleration of the employment of specialist experts at company level, the safeguarding of regional and sectoral labour and the facilitation of practical processes, it is possible to reduce the need for a labour force outside the EU". And that's when we ended up like, "You don't give up all the time." In a certain way, one of the problems with this initiative by Mrs Majala is precisely that she would treat differently those who would be coming to work and then these people who have come to seek asylum and who, according to information, are not even getting it. But I understand the logic that work is the best integrationist and knowledge of the language is the best integrationist. Many who have come here and then received asylum have commended the fact that they have been able to work quickly. And it is true that why keep 3 or even 6 months of them doing nothing. It's a place to think about. But it is also worth taking seriously this issue of attraction raised by Mr Mäkelä, namely that it would not act as a new attraction for the flow of refugees to the north of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u156	Mr President! As a comment to Mr Heinos, I believe that this is not a question of the need-assessment referred to in the Government Programme in any way, but of unauthorised intruders, whom we have not requested, even if you have chosen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u157	Mr President! I went to Kemijärvi to see these asylum seekers and I was surprised that there, well, all were young men, but there was also a well-educated population there, people with a good English language. The first thing I was thinking about in that situation was that they should be made to do something absolutely, because it is a difficult situation for all of us if they do not do anything there. The second is that, once and for all, when we pay it between EUR 40 and EUR 45 per day for the fact that those people are just there, we should now really develop policies, working methods to get those people to do something and to work once and for all. Work. At the same time, we must bear in mind that we must not under any circumstances undermine the employment opportunities of present-day Finns. We've got enough people out of work for ourselves. But now that we have to answer for these people who have come to Finland, they should somehow be able to contribute to the cost of self-supporting them. And I absolutely agree with what has been said here, that this must not be a factor of attraction for Finland under any circumstances, under no circumstances. But could it be such a realising thing, for example, that when you come to Finland you have to work here? That you can't just be like on vacation here. You really do work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u158	Madam President! I disagree with Mrs Maijala on this point. The ability of our society to respond to the rush of tens of thousands of immigrants has not only been put to the test, but has been greatly exceeded. Even now, before we find out what has happened, it will take years, and what is coming now? We don't need any more lures here to add them. I do not know the kind of citizens who would be surprised if these asylum tourists could not start working in Finland immediately. Instead, I know a lot of citizens who believe that we should close the borders immediately and banish those who have already snuck in here quickly. We have hundreds of thousands of ordinary Finns unemployed. What kind of work could these languageless, often uneducated immigrants, such as goatsherds, do here? They don't have a job here that matches their profession. This is an impossible equation. Madam President! Even if such a miracle happens that an immigrant finds the right job, would he have a desire to do so? After all, we have such a sleazy and generous system that, since all the backs of a Finnish taxpayer are paid to them, why should they receive work? After all, they can live for decades on subsidies such as those seen in Somalia in particular. However, if a job were to be found and even a willingness to work, it should be asked whether it would benefit our common cashier, i.e. would it actually be productive work? When an immigrant works with immigrants, even as a coordinator of some kind, our common cashier only gets thinner. Madam President! We have two groups whose adaptation to Finland has been particularly weak: Somalis and Iraqis. The costly integration of decades has failed, so it is hard to believe that the tens of thousands of people who are now coming here will adapt better. There is no work for Finns either. How about them? However, I would be happy to see them do something in return for their free maintenance. Why would those involved in the immigration business, first of all the SPR, constantly look for volunteers to pass these young men who are said to be severely affected by inactivity? Why are they not required to clean up, make out, wash dishes, wipe out their reception centers themselves? They could also do simple yard work, i.e. rake, and after a while, there will certainly be snow in Lapland. Snowwork can be done with a little training. If the planned tent accommodation takes place, I hope that the location will be even the vast wilderness of Lapland. There would be peace and quiet, which I am sure the immigrants who are suffering from the explosion of the bomb and all sorts of other major emergencies will need, such peace. There'd be plenty to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u159	Mr President! Let us say this again so that we do not leave the wrong picture in the Minutes when Mr Mäkelä referred to my speech: I did not mean that this would now be some sort of follow-up to the government programme, but I pointed out that the government programme negotiations specifically agreed on what I said above, and now there would be a certain bypass for these people who come here to seek asylum. In other words, there would be no need to consider work for them and, accordingly, the need to consider work for other people from outside the EU and the EEA. In my opinion, it would be in some way contrary to the fact that people come here to work in areas where Finns do not necessarily want to be found, but the authorisation process and system is so rigid that it has been difficult, for example, to obtain work permits for the transport sector, and that is what I mentioned in my own speech. I would like to underline that we need to think very carefully about the fact that we are not creating systems, which are attraction factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u160	Mr President! As a comment to Mrs Maijala and Mrs Hakkarainen: I would certainly be prepared to support the compulsory work of immigrants and asylum seekers and the funded social security for them, but I am already used to the fact that there is a professor or a professor on duty who is prepared to say that this is not possible under the Constitution and that it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u161	Mr President! I listened to Mr Hakkarainen's speech, and I must say that we disagreed on that. After all, when you said that you would like to see asylum seekers working — and that is what I want to see, and that is what this is all about. You presented these jobs and activities — exactly what we have, that is, we have a lot of work to do. And speaking of the snow in Lapland, we already have 25 cents of snow, so you can get there already. But what we disagree with is that we already have tens of thousands of people coming to Finland. We can't throw them out of here. We must now take responsibility for the people who have come within our borders, and we cannot afford, once and for all, at the moment to regard them as idle for several years, but we must guide them as soon as possible to do something here. And we must not now have regulations to prevent them from doing something here if they want and are able to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u162	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u163	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u164	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The gross sexual abuse of a child is like a murder that survives. The consequences are often extremely destructive and affect the victim in all areas of life. The age of the crime in the child’s gross sexual abuse is now up to 20 years. This is problematic for those who have experienced exploitation because it is typical that it is forgotten or forgotten for decades. When a child is the victim of serious violence, the child uses different protective mechanisms. The experience of violence can be unbearable, and the child rejects the event by various means. A child may, so to speak, decide to forget what has happened and not talk to anyone about it. A child can also dissociate, which means separation of the mind and body. It's like a child's watching what's happening to him. Almost always the child feels guilty about what happened and feels guilty for it. Very often, threats or manipulation of the perpetrator also affect a small child. If a child tries to tell someone what happened and the child is not believed, he may feel that no one in this world can be trusted anymore. A huge shame about what happened may also prevent them from telling completely. The victim often forgets abuse or does not understand the connection to his or her condition before a certain situation in life triggers a memory of the past. Such situations may include the birth of your child, divorce or the death of the offender. Victims who have forgotten the experience of abuse or have not understood the context are, as a rule, between 30 and 60 years of age. Sexual exploitation as a child is a particularly reprehensible crime, and that is what we have already discussed today in the second legislative initiative. The consequences are often very devastating. Abuse affects the building and development of self, the identity is distorted, and sometimes even has to be completely rebuilt. At its worst, abuse can last throughout childhood and youth. Because of what happened, the victim may be ill, and he's exhibiting symptoms in a number of ways. The consequences are not always linked to childhood events. Typical consequences include self - blame, hatred for yourself, guilt, shame, fear, abuse of alcohol or other substances, memory loss, various physical effects and psychosomatic pains, eating disorders, disability, difficulties in relationships, and sexual problems. While trying to push the matter into oblivion, it lives in the victim all the time as a powerful, inexplicable evil. The consequences of abuse can be shocking, even if the actions were seemingly small. If gross sexual abuse of a child would never become obsolete as a crime, it would send out a message of social importance about the seriousness of the matter. Aging a crime would also mean the possibility for those aged 28 or over to seek justice even if the grueling issue has been silenced in youth. This bill, which I have presented and submitted, is a version of the 2011-2015 parliamentary term. That is when the 108 Members of Parliament signed this bill. Nevertheless, neither the Finnish Parliament nor the Ministry of Justice made progress on the bill. That is why today I want to renew this bill, and I think that the necessary reinforcement is the signing of the 108 previous parliamentary term. We did not re-collect that majority from this Parliament, but the message must be unambiguously clear and sufficient. On the basis of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt a draft law amending Chapter 8, Section 1 of the Penal Code. Chapter 8, Obsolescence, Section 1, Expiration of the right to legal proceedings: The right to prosecute a criminal offence for which the most severe sentence is life imprisonment does not become obsolete. The same applies to the right to charge a child with gross sexual abuse. In Helsinki on 16 October 2015, MP Timo Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u165	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Heinonen, for renewing this important initiative which you have already taken and submitted in the previous period. And what is also courageous and excellent is that, without this hundred signatures, this initiative is very important and runs alongside these others, both with the citizens' initiative and with this one, because it is precisely so that the signal in the previous period has already been given and must also be reflected in the way in which it is dealt with. You mentioned the background to this initiative, and you wondered how this gross sexual abuse of a child is getting older. What can I say but that it shouldn't get old. After all, the life cycle and life cycle of a person is so long and can accommodate different phases and memories, and at what point do memories of life pop into mind. That it should be respected, and those who have done wrong to another person should be held accountable for what they have done. I myself have worked for a very long time in the care of the elderly and at a very early stage, at the beginning of my career, I understood and noticed that people have a lot of different things and secrets to carry on their hearts. We do not know what many people have been through. I faced such treatments that it occurred to me that something bad ever happened, because people still react when they were very old, even if they might not remember, for example, the nurse’s touch, and when we tried to wash or do any other treatment, it was so obvious that the anxiety and the feeling of illness and the impression that the other one was doing wrong. Thank you, Timo Heinonen, and I wish you good luck with your bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u166	Mr President! This bill was prepared last season together with Mr Tuomo Puumala, who is also the second signatory here with me. Add that to the parliamentary record. At the time, we did quite a long and thorough job with this bill. Among other things, we met with people who have been the sponsors of such serious sexual crimes against children, and as a result I managed to get myself, for example, a book by Visa Kuusikallio and Katri Kuusikallio on this sort of "good-used — survivors tell us," and yes, the stories are such that they make us representatives of the people work. It seems that there are too many of these things now which, in fact, do not meet in any way with the general sense of justice: the judgments that they will become, or, in this case, the fact that the conviction cannot even be handed down for the offence committed, not even in the event that the perpetrator admits, and even this kind of situation arose, where, as part of the process, it would have been that a serious crime had been achieved in a certain way. That would also have been right for the author, but in some cases he himself wished for it, perhaps even as part of the search for forgiveness, which, in such a situation, is very difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u167	Madam President! Among other things, Mrs Maijala and Mr Juvonen have talked about the life-long traumas that are happening here. And I wonder... Take, for example, the mass rape in Tapanila. The female relatives and friends present at that session played their middle finger and were given conditional sentences. What does it matter, a note like this? It doesn't affect a normal life. Yes, these penalties must be brought to the same level as the crime committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u168	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Amending budget initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u169	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u170	The 12th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u171	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u172	The 14th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-12-ps-63.u173	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 November 2015.
