ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please. During the part-session, the acoustics of this temporary part-session have been improved in a number of ways. The speakers have been changed, the sound level has been adjusted and acoustic discs installed. I hope they will improve the hearing of each other in this Chamber. But it must be remembered that everything a and o is how we all consider each other. Mutual discussions must therefore take place outside the Chamber, and it is important to avoid moving around in the Chamber here and there. This will allow us to improve this working environment through our own actions. Good fall for the big questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u3	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to implement amendments to the law on the reform of occupational pensions. The main objective of the Government proposal is to extend the working lives of Finns. At the same time, the objective is to reduce the sustainability gap in public finances. Longer working careers promote employment and increase the combined labour income of the economy. The sustainability gap is also reduced by reducing the expenditure needed to pay pensions. The aim of the proposal is also to ensure the financial sustainability of the occupational pension scheme. As working careers lengthen, the amount of earnings increases, which also supports the financing base for pensions. The increase in the financing base will curb the upward pressure on the earnings-related pension contribution. As a result of the proposed changes, the level of the earnings-related pension contribution can be stabilised for the next decades. The proposal proposes a gradual increase in the retirement age. It is proposed to raise the minimum age for old-age pensions from those born in 1955 to 3 months for each age group up to 65 years. Later, the old-age pension age in the earnings-related pension scheme and the national pension scheme are proposed to be linked to life expectancy. It is intended that part of the expected increase in life expectancy will be used for future work. The retirement age would increase for all employed persons regardless of the field of employment. Retirement would be made the same for people of all ages. Pensions would start earlier than at the age of 17 and would increase by 1.5% of the earnings. However, the change for older age groups would be softened by a special increase in the transition period. A partial early retirement pension and a career pension would be introduced as new forms of pension. A partial early retirement pension would replace the current part-time pension. A career pension would allow a slightly lower retirement age at an earlier stage for those who have worked for a long career with a strain and weariness and have reduced their chances of continuing their work. The type of work that would be regarded as burdensome and exorbitant in the form of pensions is clearly defined in the draft law. The reform aims to ensure adequate pension levels for all age groups and to ensure intergenerational justice. Longer working careers would lead to better pensions, as the pension can be increased over a longer period of time. The proposed change from the lower limit for pension accumulation and the abolition of the pension contribution from the underlying earnings will improve the pension level, particularly for young people. It is also essential for young people that the pressure to raise the pension contribution could be curbed by the changes now being proposed. The fairness between generations and different socio-economic groups would be supported by harmonisation of the rules on accumulation. For those who are already retired, the proposed changes do not apply. The proposed changes are based on the agreement reached last autumn by the labour market central organisations on the proposal for a reform of occupational pensions. Since then, the preparation has been continued at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with labour market organisations and pension law executives. Changes in the pension system are one of the structural reforms that Finland needs in this demanding economic situation. The pension reform also significantly curbs the rise in employers' contributions. Without the changes now being proposed, the contribution under the Employee Pensions Act should be increased by more than one percentage point by 2025. In 2009, the then government and labour market centre organisations set a target of an increase in the expected retirement age of 25 years or more by at least 62 years and 4 months by 2025. In the preparatory phase, the proposed changes have been estimated to lead to the desired outcome a little earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u4	Madam President! This is now one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term. This was already the case during the last period when the social partners reached an agreement about a year ago on the reform of the occupational pension system. Employment pensions are a source of work and employment policy is therefore essential for financial sustainability. In contrast, it is essential for the individual to be able to work more closely in order to strengthen the quality of working life and the ability to cope at work. I therefore hope that the government will take a more active approach than blackmail. In many ways, the government can support and promote the extension of working lives. This is a good experience in our country, for example, from the beginning of the 21st century. The transformation of working life is real. More than one employee changes jobs several times during his career, short-term and shredded jobs are a reality, and few workers achieve the best in the rest of their careers. This proposal has tried to take these changes into account. Pension surveys are improving for all workers and it does not matter at which stage of life the work has been done. In addition, those who continue to work for a long time will maintain a significant incentive through a postponement increase. This agreement between the social partners aims to provide adequate pension provision for everyone, to ensure intergenerational justice and to secure the financial basis of the entire occupational pension scheme. The proposal is expected to reduce pension expenditure and increase employment to reduce the sustainability gap by 1 percentage point. Investment rules for pension funds will also be amended to improve investment income. These changes can strengthen the financial sustainability so that the level of payment would be sufficient in the future to reach 24.4%. Mr President! The situation in Finland's economy is serious. Indeed, pension reform is the only concrete reform that will have a real impact on the sustainability gap and that has been achieved with genuine agreement. Such a culture of reconciliation will continue to be needed, and the government now has a place of proof. Longer working careers will produce a better pension level. This requires, however, that work is available and that work can continue until the retirement age. That is why both the strengthening of employment and the development of working life are absolutely essential. In this reform, changes to the rules on the accumulation of pensions will also increase the fairness of the system. In the future, the pension will increase from the age of 17 and the entire salary will form the basis of the pension accumulation, and it is a good thing that the so-called hidden cutter has now been removed. In addition, the accumulation will remain the same throughout the working life. These changes will improve the future pensions of young people in particular. In addition, a new career pension and a partial early old-age pension will be introduced which will increase the opportunities for flexible retirement for workers and entrepreneurs. The planned retirement is also supported by the target retirement age, which the employee will be aware of five years before his lowest retirement age and can then assess the future level of his pension. It is therefore very important that employees and entrepreneurs be informed in good time about what the pension reform means and how it affects them. Mr President! Just a few more words about equality: Women's pensions are on average lower than men's pensions, and the differences are due to lower wages and shorter working careers. These cannot be directly influenced by the pension system, but the government can make its own efforts to improve the position of women in working life. The level of pensions is also affected by family leave, which women have more than men. According to the legislation in force, pension is also increased from parental allowance periods and from caring for a child under the age of three at home, as well as from studying. Here the calculated base salary is now EUR 707. This principle will continue to be maintained, and that is a good thing. However, Mr President, I would like to press the government to facilitate reconciliation between work and family and to improve the employment rate for women. The strong labour market position of women is then visible in wages, careers and, consequently, in pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u5	Madam President! The proposal to amend the legislation on the earnings-related pension scheme is a pure example of a situation in which a formally uniform provision leads to actual inequality. I am referring in particular to the fact that the retirement age is linked to life expectancy. According to the proposal, the retirement age would be gradually increased to 65 years and then linked to the average life expectancy. The aim is to maintain the relationship that has been achieved between retirement and working time, even if people live longer in the future. The reform does not take into account the fact that the differences in the life expectancy of population groups are very large. Currently, a well-earned 35-year-old man can expect to live to be 82 years old, while a low-income man has a life expectancy of 69.5 years. Differences between income categories have increased in line with the increase in income differentials since the turn of the 1990s. As income differentials continue to grow, there is no reason to expect that the gap in life expectancy will stabilise in the near future. In practice, this means that workers in particular are allowed to say goodbye to retirement. For example, I take the construction sector, which is now retired early, on average at the age of 58. Few people in their 60 ’ s can climb on scaffolding in the rain or pave the highway in the heat. The builders also die early, as there are many low-income men in this sector whose average life expectancy is below the lower limit of the old-age pension on the basis of the formula of reform. Madam President! Although in the future very few builders will be able to retire from old age, they will be eligible to pay. Since construction workers’ careers often begin at the latest at the age of 20, pension years may well be the same as those of a higher education student who is able to work until the age of old age or more. Bringing a so - called job hero pension into the law does not change this overall picture, for the strict conditions for it are extremely few, according to some estimates about two thousand persons of each age group, hardly anyone from the rakso. In order to qualify for a career pension, it is necessary to have a career which can be verified from the official registers of more or less a continuous period of time, as hardly anyone in the seasonal and cyclical construction sector has. Madam Speaker! Yes, I know that the threefold agreement is so sacred and untouchable in this country that it is not brought down by reason. It's always worth a shot. The problem of mechanical life expectancy would be very easy to mitigate, for example by taking account of sectoral differences. If this is not done, then it is a purely ideological choice. Personally, I am not in favour of a reform in which pension contributions belong to everyone but pensions only to the elected ones. Mr President! In view of the time recommendation, I will discuss the more general challenges associated with the underlying assumptions of pension reform later in the second speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u6	Madam President! The proposal before us is an example of how the current government should also build up the task of making and agreeing in society. The pension reform launched during the previous government is precisely the example of how big things can be agreed on in the trio, which will take us forward. The solution reached in harmony with the social partners is now here in the debate, and everyone applauds. The Prime Minister of today's government also applauds this because he says that this is excellent and well-prepared work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u9	Mr President! It is up-to-date to start the September session with a major structural reform which, hopefully, will receive the support of the whole Parliament. Indeed, the key objective of the pension reform under consideration is to extend working lives by gradually increasing the retirement age. The reform will improve the sustainability of public finances by around one percentage point and safeguard the financial sustainability of our pension system. This proposal is a necessary demonstration that we in Finland are responsible and able to carry out structural reforms and not allow Finland to get on the Greek road. What is essential is that the reform should also ensure adequate pension levels for all age groups and ensure intergenerational justice. It is very important that there is a wide-ranging debate on pension reform. Parliament is going through this proposal and it is important to say out loud what this pension reform is aimed at. Indeed, efforts are being made to secure adequate pensions: pensions would be severely reduced due to the life expectancy factor if working careers were not extended. That is why we need a pension reform. Another important issue is sustainable financing: when we live longer, pension contributions should be increased when pension expenditure rises, and the more sustainable solution is indeed that we increase work. Third: Extension of working careers. The pension system is also expected and supported to improve employment and solve the problems of public finances. That's why the pension reform. It has been said here that this proposal is based on a compromise agreement between the social partners, which actually meets the objectives of the previous government structural package. The parliamentary group in the Coalition Party has supported this pension solution, but I would like to raise a few points which it is good to go through in committee, which need to be assessed and examined. It has to be said that pension reform is not a career reform because it does not include elements for the development of working life or, above all, financial instituencies for the employer, and that is why, as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health said here in particular, it needs to be developed. It should also be noted that incentives to continue working when approaching the age of old-age pension remain thin in this solution when the increased accumulation disappears. And it is also important to see how this reform encourages a high level of education and the continuation of careers. The so-called career pension included in the proposal creates new choices between retirement and continued work, but it does not fully implement the basic objective of pension reform to extend retirement age. But these are the issues that must be looked at in committee. Mr President! The proposal should secure the financing of occupational pensions for 10 to 20 years, and this is very important. But I really do say that our parliamentary group supports this bill. And it is excellent that this proposal contains flexible elements, i.e. flexible elements in occupational pension provision: the flexible retirement age will remain, a partial early retirement pension instead of part-time pension. And it is these flexible elements that are important for workers, which increase the quality of working life. From a generational point of view, it is fair that the age of old age should begin to rise in 1955. It is also important to underline and say out loud, when this bill is in a referral debate, that raising the level of disability pension will alleviate pension poverty and the abolition of the pension-retirement rate will improve the level of pensions. It is clear that when the law is dealt with, we will also be able to consider and answer questions about the occupational retirement age. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of equality, which has already been mentioned here. So we know that higher pensions for men compared to women are, on average, due to longer careers than two years and higher wages. I would like to pay tribute to the Government for the fact that it is really important that gender equality measures are taken. It is also very important that women's labour market status and structures leading to inequality be removed, and one of the costs of parenting for the employer. It is important that progress be made in this area so as to remove the stigma of working life and the obstacle to entrepreneurship. That I'll send my regards to the budget line. But at the end of the day, Mr President, I would like to say that the draft law must be supported. The reform is based on wisdom. When we get more years to live, we have to get life and activity into those years. That is, when a person’s life span increases, some of those additional years must be used for work. This bill is based on that wise idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u10	Mr President! There are a lot of good elements in this presentation: The sustainability gap will be reduced by more than one percentage point. The survey solution has also made it fair for those workers who work for a long career on a steady salary. The survey starts as early as 17 years, and people who have worked hard for a long career will be able to receive a career pension. But perhaps the most important thing now that this pension solution has now come to Parliament is to pay attention to how this process came about, how this solution was achieved. There is such a saying that where power is not enough, wisdom is needed. And this is the background to the attempt of the old bourgeois government in 2007-2011 — it didn't work out. The previous government worked well with the social partners — a solution has been found that is fair to public finances and also to workers. And now it seems that once again we are returning to the dictation. My question is: is there any point in throwing the contractual society into the trash? Through the contractual society, as a result, we have now received this bill here in Parliament, where it can be passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u11	The debatability has now been opened. I'll ask you to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u12	Mr President! This is, as has been demonstrated here, a truly positive reform and a billion-dollar reform that has taken place after good preparation, and it should be pointed out that this solution, after all, came about under the previous government, that when so many of the Katainen's governments have been criticised and, often rightly, this is an example of the good seeding of the Katainen Government, which is now producing results for this Parliament. Now that a press conference is about to begin at three o’clock, in which the government announces its own model of social pacts, attention should be paid to this procedure, which Mr Lindtman already lacked. The fact that we have a very wide-ranging reform here is the result of the desire to engage in dialogue and listen to other parties in society and also to take the opinion of the social partners seriously. It is always a compromise and not a perfect one, but this is a good one. I am concerned about the line taken by the Left Alliance: if, as Mr Kontula has said, the Left Alliance really withdraws from the triangulation, it has been a long time since.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u13	Mr President! Yeah, it's been a long road, but the most important thing is the outcome. This started from the fact that the government with the social partners was preparing a so-called social allowance to extend working lives. It seemed that its proposals would not be enough, and the government repeatedly called for these to be steeled, but it did not succeed at that time, and then the government felt that the next bar should be set. We set a target of 63 to 65 years and with a transitional period of 2 months per year. Now the result is exactly the same. Only because this has been postponed will this transitional period be faster: 3 months a year. But, as I said, it is good that this is coming, and it is excellent that this will hopefully be adopted unanimously, that this positive impact on reducing the sustainability gap is recognised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u14	Mr President! Even with this pension reform, working lives are not lastingly extended, but by keeping people healthy, able to work and willing to work for as long as possible. Well, this pension reform is, above all, very important in the national economy, but there are a lot of reforms and development targets that will have a great deal of significance for future careers. These reforms include, among other things, this major reform of social welfare and health care, investment in the mobility of young people and children and, above all, in lifestyles and, above all, in people’s well-being and well-being at work. Mr President! Mr Myllykoski called for these areas, which should already have the possibility of a career pension for all, as a priori. This debate is important and good, we have inequalities in working life, there is more pregnancy in other areas than others, but there are great differences in individuality between people and tasks, and that is why I would see here that it is much more important to look at that individual rather than the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u15	Mr President! It is important that a proposal has now been made on this issue of the occupational pension scheme, and it is very good that it has been done in cooperation and agreement, and I congratulate the government on that. But I would like to raise another point in this connection: It was agreed that the occupational retirement age would be abolished in July 89 and that those who were then employed would be able to choose, under certain conditions, whether or not to use the occupational retirement age in due course. Those conditions were, for example, to lose the right to early retirement and to be employed by the employer from 89 until his retirement age. These people have now reached 26 years of age and it is now up to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to prepare a bill to withdraw the State from this agreement, and I would now like to ask the Minister whether you can confirm to these police officers, rescue workers, nurses, teachers who have at one time concluded the contract and their share of the contract, that the State will adhere to this contract and to this choice of professional retirement age?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u16	Mr President! It is good that this pension package is now here. We all know how difficult it was to agree on big things during the last parliamentary term. The debate on the future of the triangular population is also very relevant from this point of view. The Sipilä Government Programme has been criticised for its lack of many equality goals that have traditionally been promoted in such triangular tables, such as the equal pay goal, the equality plan and so on. Representative Sarkomaa pointed out the fact that poverty among retired women is more common than that of retired men. The background is precisely the inequality in working life and the inequality in the distribution of parental rights. Today we heard at the gender equality seminar in STM that the government is not carrying out a gender impact assessment on the budget for which it is submitting a proposal this week.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u17	Mr President! Indeed, we have now come to an agreement on a difficult matter, and I think it is very important that we continue to agree on these matters together in the triangular context. This pension reform should be assessed as a large entity. It is particularly good that this reform will enable workers' pensions to be safeguarded in the future, and for young people that pensions will be guaranteed over their head and pension levels will also rise. However, the retirement age is not the same as the retirement age. In fact, last year the average retirement age was 61.2 years. The big problem is that, as Mr Kontula said, those working in physically heavy occupations will never reach retirement age. It is therefore necessary to take better care of the working capacity of workers when raising the age limits for old-age pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u18	Mr President! This reform is one of the most important reforms that are now being undertaken in terms of extending working lives and thus closing the sustainability gap. It is good in itself that the result has been achieved, but I find it problematic that Akava, who represents 600,000 highly educated people, could not stand behind this pension agreement. The biggest losers of the reform are well-educated women in particular. In the model presented at the end of the career, women cannot, like the current model, raise their pension and thus compensate for years outside the labour market, often due to maternity leave and parental leave, and I would almost venture to say that this is also a matter of a certain transfer of income, paying for young people in particular, educated women and men on the receiving side. It is precisely because we know that we still have a certain inequality in our working life that I would also like to call for: how does the minister responsible see the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u19	Madam President! This is, of course, a compromise. It's just unfortunate that there were some beauty flaws left behind. The fact, for example, that the granting of a career pension is subject to 38 years of work in a job which causes stress and weariness. This is too long a time if the work is something from which wear and tear comes. They'll show up sooner. For example, smoke divers, divers, nurses, especially in old age work, are the ones with these wears because they have to pick people up not only every day but every hour when they are working. For them, the requirement for 38 years of heavy and consuming work is too much. The second thing left here is that this is an obsession with working careers, rather than encouraging people to work. Fortunately, here is the fact that if you volunteer to do so yourself
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u20	Mr President! The sustainability of the earnings-related pension system and, on the other hand, the reduction of the pressure to raise contributions are the main objectives of this reform of the earnings-related pension system, and this in itself is necessary in the form of restructuring. However, as has been shown here in the speeches, the success of this restructuring also depends on the ability to invest in working capacity and working life and, on the other hand, on the ability of everyone to participate in the labour market. Improving the employment opportunities of people capable of working part-time is a key means of prolonging working lives, and the step towards working life is still far too high for them. In addition, every week, on average, ten people under the age of 30 are on disability pension, three-quarters of them due to mental health problems. As a loss of tax revenue, this amounts to approximately EUR 1.2 billion a year. What does the government intend to do to increase the working capacity of young age groups?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u21	Mr President! Extending working careers is certainly a common goal for all of us. However, it cannot be achieved by raising the mechanical retirement age or forcing it to do so. The aim must be to improve the whole life-cycle, and in this respect the situation seems worrying because unemployment, and especially the number of young people and older people and the long-term unemployed, is increasing and the government has not intervened. It's not a longer career. It's the other way around. It is also essential that we ensure that people have real access to adequate services for their own well-being and health, as well as to knowledge. At the moment, this situation is difficult for the unemployed. In this respect, the government's actions are highly contradictory. I would like to ask Minister Mäntylä: how is the government really going to increase the retirement age and improve the working life, because at the same time you are cutting the education and employment budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u22	Mr President! It is easy to understand that when more years come to life, more work must also come into it. It is equally easy to understand that the actual retirement age cannot be raised by raising the lower limit. A three-shift nurse or a heavy smoke diver’s career does not lengthen from what is the wish reading with which he retires if the job is just too heavy. I would like to see an active reflection in the ministry on how to extend working careers in another way. Here are some facts: According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a career would be extended by 6 months if disability pensions due to mental health were halved. A career would be extended by as much as two to three years if absenteeism from 11 to 4 days was reduced. And small sums are not mentioned when considering the cost implications, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u23	Mr President! Indeed, the employment pension reform is only one part of the work we do in extending careers. The work needs to continue with the government, the social partners, businesses and the public sector, and I think it is excellent that the government's key projects have absolutely key actions: a project for the people with disabilities, a public health 2.0 project, which pays particular attention to mental health issues and makes a mental health programme. So there's gonna be some action coming in here. Of course, these are not enough, but we must work with them. It is good to say out loud that, indeed, when the statutory minimum age is raised, that does not mean that it automatically increases, but it is one part of this whole, and it is good that, when we live longer, we develop a welfare society, so that some of those additional years of work are actively used in working life. That is a positive thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u24	Mr President! It is, of course, somewhat contradictory when there is a great deal of praise here for the tripartite preparation at a time when, from the government parties, even a little media, the impression is being created that the social partners are too involved in policy making and that there should be cleaner parliamentaryism, yet I am very much in favour of this tripartite preparation. After all, a fair pension system would be that, regardless of the job, profession, career, everyone would have the same many years of entitlement to healthy retirement, and now this fairness will not be realised. Those who work hard, as Mr Kontula said, will pay occupational pension contributions for their whole life, but many will be exhausted even before retirement age or immediately after retirement. I can say that if I had continued as a platesmith at the shipyard for these decades and had not been able to get here to work for the lords, at least I would not be in this condition to talk. In other words, this career pension, for example, and its problem, are challenging, and it must be carefully considered in the committee that the right to retire and to pay the pension will be better achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u25	Mr President! I welcome the fact that there has been a cross-party experience and concern here for those people whose careers are physically heavier. However, this system has been considered in a number of ways and has resulted in such an overall reform in agreement. This means that there is now a lot of responsibility for workplaces, for better management, for reorganising work at the point when the career is nearing the end. It is also worth noting that the labour market position of over 55-year-olds in Finland, especially women, is rather poor, and a major change in attitude would be needed here. It is not weak to say thank you to the government for last season that this proposal is now before Parliament. It has included good preparation. On the other hand, I do not quite understand the fact that the social democrats here are already painting trouble on the walls of the working life that is being presented today. However, let us wait for its content first.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u26	Minister Mäntylä, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u27	Mr President! It has actually been quite gratifying to hear this debate here and to hear how it highlights the shortcomings that we still have a lot to resolve. And, indeed, we must thank the previous government and all the parties who have contributed to this during the last period for the fact that this proposal is now on the table here in Parliament. This is one big part of the big picture. But it is quite true what has been said here today, that we have a big change in the labour market and that we have a wide range of challenges to deal with there. And now, in more than one speech, there was the common concern about working and the well-being of the work, how we can contribute to it. It's a matter for all of us. It is not this kind of government—opposition issue, but it is for all of us. It requires a wide-ranging social debate between and with different actors. And it is true that, although we now have a good proposal, which is of course a pleasure to take forward — and I hope, of course, that parliamentary support will be there — we have a lot of situations in which people simply cannot work, they are not able to do so, and then the retirement age, although we are raising it here, is a mechanical figure if people are not able to work until then. This is, to the greatest extent, a social and health policy issue, but it is also a strong economic policy issue. This is, of course, something that I hope will also be able to hold a debate in Parliament, because clearly we share this issue and concern together. Of course, the other issue is this gender equality and, on the other hand, how work and family life can be better coordinated. Yes, we still have a lot of work to do. And surely we all know that they are not simple solutions, but they also need those discussions and that we can then commit ourselves to them jointly. Indeed, this came in the speech of one of the representatives, and I will go on to, for example, these sick leave and the kind of decline that comes from there to society: if we are going to genuinely reflect on the reasons why people are not able to work, and what causes, for example, the increasing number of people to move from mental health to sick leave and from there to disability pension, then these are things that we can make a lot of improvements on. In fact, as a matter of urgency — if the President allows — when Mrs Essayah raised the position of this age group in this working life: This is very important because we have a growing problem in our hands at the moment and a really big time bomb in the face of the fact that we have youth unemployment rising to an unimaginable level. We have a lot of willing young people who would like to work — they will never get there and the longer they have to stay out of work, the greater all the problems will grow, and it will inevitably also bring about the fact that they will not even find it meaningful to go to work there. These are big questions, and of course we are all equally concerned about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u28	Mr President! This is a truly large tomorrow’s gift which the current government inherited from the previous parliamentary term. This pension package is in its own order of magnitude among the solutions with which we seek to close the future sustainability gap. What is also essential is the process to which reference has already been made to how this came about. This was the result of a joint agreement, not from outside, from above, but from good cooperation between the social partners, which the government itself helped with its own active action. I want to believe in this contractual society, and I want to believe in the tripartite capacity to make the big, big decisions that will maintain a welfare society for future generations. The government now has a big responsibility: how do you uphold this cooperation and the contractual society?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u29	Mr President! The reform aims to ensure adequate pension levels for all age groups and to ensure intergenerational justice. This is important, but above all it is essential to reduce the number of people on disability pension. I hope that the minister and the government will be determined to do this, especially in terms of working and genuinely being able to work longer. Then what a beauty flaw is involved — perhaps this is not necessarily an incentive to study, to continue training. This may be the beauty flaw that this is. The second one I would like to hear from the Minister is an increase in the pensionable age of soldiers. It is problematic, not necessarily from the point of view of work pregnancy, but, above all, from the point of view of the system. I would be happy to hear from Minister Mäntylä whether these effects have been assessed in the run-up to this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u30	Mr President! I agree with the question raised by Mr Heinonen that it is good for Parliament to clarify this age of retirement for soldiers. It also has defence implications, especially in terms of the size of the reserve we have and the way in which the country can be defended under difficult circumstances. In this group, which, after the active service, continues to play an important role in the reserve, of course, the population is those who have been trained as officers, and it would be good to report on this. I believe that the Committee on Defence will also be interested in this. Then there's another comment. Yes, I am thinking in particular that perhaps the task of this pension system is not to encourage studying in particular. Is it not the role of the pension system to encourage people to be able to work as late as possible? That is the real task, and the incentives for learning then come from getting a good job and thus a good salary and thus a good pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u31	Madam President! Mr Heinonen and Mr Heinonen Heinäluoma drew attention to an important issue, namely the specific features of the military pension scheme. It seems that the drafting of the law has not taken into account the defence policy criteria of the military pension system at all. Among other things, the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Staff and the Border Guard have expressed strong, clear opposition and concern about this change. According to a statement made by the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a two-year increase in the retirement age would reduce the professional military reserve by 40%, and this in turn would have a significant impact on, among other things, the capacity that is currently being developed in many other countries. In other words, I myself would like this important issue to be taken into account, and I hope it will be brought to the opinion of the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u32	Mr President! I think there was a good debate here about what the purpose of the pension system is. I see that one of the key elements that this has now been completed is also the big question of trust that future generations, those who have entered or just entered the labour market, will have the opportunity to work with the same assumption and confidence that the previous generations have had the opportunity to do, i.e. with the idea that when I do my job and am able to work, the retirement age is waiting for me. The sustainability of this system in the name of the fairness of future generations, as Mr Mäntyläk said in his presentation, is very valuable. That is why I would like to say that, when this process has been commended here — and I gladly agree with those thanks — the moment when this was brought to Parliament is beginning to be the last moments when this reform was supposed to come when it is a happy thing in our hands that, fortunately, life expectancy in Finland is constantly increasing, thanks to the good social policy of previous generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u33	Mr President! In his speech, the Minister very widely shared this concern, which was expressed here that work is absolutely essential and essential and that work should be done. You also shared this concern, which we raised about the importance of reconciling work with family and everything else. But I didn't hear any concrete statement about what the government is going to do to these people. This proposal has been ready already during the previous government, and it has been known in the Government Programme negotiations that this is coming. If the retirement age were to be increased and the aim was to extend working lives, I would have missed concrete steps in that government programme on how genuinely to extend working careers in such a way as to increase the effective retirement age. That is why I think it is the last moments that the government is still making these policies. The budget debate is about to begin tomorrow, and I would like to see a package now being built on this side of the budget that really supports the implementation of this pension reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u34	Mr President! Mr Haatainen's question was a very legitimate one. It is estimated that the financing of this occupational pension scheme, which is the subject of this bill, is not very sustainable in the long term, but requires, for example, an increase in the employment rate. If that does not happen, then payments will have to be increased quite a bit, which means that they are in fact at too low a level. Representative Saarikko spoke beautifully of trust. The fact is that the confidence of Finnish citizens in pension provision has collapsed in recent years and only 29 per cent of Finns feel that the system is fair. For example, self-employed persons, micro-entrepreneurs, young generations who are doing more and more shredding jobs, are examples of such groups who do pay these earnings-related pension contributions in different forms of work and when they employ themselves like an entrepreneur,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u35	Mr President! We often talk about pension as a deferred salary, but as has already been pointed out in some speeches, we have an increasing number of different groups of people to whom it is simply not earned. There are hereditary unemployment, there are forced entrepreneurs, people who work in different liberal professions, and so on, who simply do not accumulate such a sum. This, as it drags on, leads to this becoming a ticking time bomb, we have an increasing number of people who are increasingly dependent on the services of social welfare income support. It is equally right to say that more needs to be invested in well-being at work, but we also need to create mechanisms to make disability pensions even part-time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u36	Madam Speaker! For the national economy, retirement age is important, not official retirement age. If we look at the actual retirement age from 96 to 14, we have risen from 57,2 to 61,2. Over the same period, the average life expectancy has risen from 76.85 to 80.86, which means that the average life expectancy has increased by only 0.2 years more than the actual retirement age. There is quite a lot of scientific evidence that, by means of so-called soft means, we would have at least as good a chance, if not better, than by raising the official retirement age by raising this retirement age. Nor, in the light of this information, do we have any significant concern that the sustainability gap should be met too quickly. That is why I do not see this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u37	Mr President! This proposal demonstrates that the Sipilä Government is quick to bring proposals to Parliament. The process with which this bill was made was excellent, but it is also excellent that this bill now came to Parliament, and I hope that the same swift pace will continue. I hope that the whole House will support this bill, and I ask: is the Left Alliance a parliamentary group behind this bill or is it that you are not involved in this agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u38	I shall comment here only on my part in the speeches I have made here. The group has not decided how they feel about this pension reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u39	Mr President! We can certainly all agree that the key to coping with working life is the extension of working careers. I too agree with those speeches which now call for the concreteness of the government to be able to improve its ability to cope with it in working life. At least I and the Swedish parliamentary group do not fit in with the abolition of the rehabilitation system, which has worked well. TYK and Aslak rehabilitation was to be replaced and moved to Aslak rehabilitation, and what the government is doing now is that the government withdraws all these funds from Aslak rehabilitation. At least that measure does not contribute to its working life, or is the government thinking about it in a different way? I would like to hear what part of the rehabilitation system is now and what kind of ideas the government has when it comes to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u40	Madam President! It is extremely important that Finns can trust government. The maintenance of trust requires, among other things, the maintenance of the agreements maintained. In this government proposal, the occupational pension scheme is now being amended to gradually increase the occupational retirement age. This is a problem precisely because these people have made a particularly individual and binding agreement on their retirement age. However, these agreements are now being disbanded. The increase in the occupational retirement age would apply to occupations and sectors where it is already difficult to continue at work until the end of the working life. Firemen, policemen, teachers, all of these together form a group that is important to us all. In practice, this leads to these hard-working occupations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u41	Mr President! As has been said many times here, the actual retirement age is much more important for our national finances than this pension reform in itself. There has also been talk here about the well-being of working life, management skills, and I agree. Close management skills are crucial for a large number of people in our working lives, but I would also like to emphasise the overall skills of working life. Enjoying working life and workplaces is a matter for everyone, including employees. All in all, the increase in Finnish life expectancy has been known for decades. However, we will only be able to do so now. We could have done this reform 15 years ago with much better and much less pain, and I think it is the same with that social reform. Do we have something to learn here, and can we think about what?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u42	Mr President! This is a good proposal, and thank you to the social partners who prepared this, and the winner here is the Finnish job. This contributes to reducing the previously threatened increase in contributions to occupational pensions, and as a result, companies have better faith in the future. One might say that the export industry in particular needs all the percentages that reduce costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u43	Madam President! For the Social Democrats and, in particular, for Mr Heinäluoma, as an information kind of thing, the Left Alliance has certainly not made any advance decisions, because this is quite obvious that we are behind this. In the market sense, I have to say that if my parliamentary group makes a different decision, could you say that I will then put a letter of resignation on the table? Mr Haatainen made a very good point that the Minister in his own speech gave broad expectations that we in society will, in a way, contribute to this retirement age through their own actions. But I would have backed up: what does the government actually want to do now, as it prolongs working careers and thus brings different elements so that reaching retirement age becomes less difficult and less possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u44	Madam President! Today, in this debate, attention has rightly been paid to career pensions. I would like to ask the minister concerned: have you considered the legal soup relating to this new occupational hero pension, the so-called Stahanov pension, in the Ministry? The stage — when few and selected people get into this career pension — when one gets it, there will be a precedent, and then we will consider whether another person will receive the corresponding pension. The legal disputes involved are certainly a major problem for the future. How have you discussed this matter in the Ministry? How are you prepared for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u45	Mr President! This is a good package as a whole and encourages people to continue working longer, and it tells of the model of Finnish reconciliation, especially that long career package. I would also refer to the practical problems that will certainly follow, namely that of its implementation. But if you look at this from the point of view of the unemployed and here you look at the solutions that the government has made, among other things, when it cuts heavily the employment budget, rehabilitation money and many of the money that is helping the unemployed back to work, then the clouds run far away in the lives of the unemployed person. That is why I would like the government to reflect on how, in practice, last season, for example, permanent employment support for older people will be provided in this situation when the employment money is reduced. It is easily a dead letter and yet it is the only way for many older people to get involved in working life. Would it not be time to think about the so-called Taipale model, which would allow older people who have been unemployed for a very long time to retire, because with these resources, which work administration has, they do not receive service or support?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u46	Madam President! This is precisely the power of the contractual society, the power of the society that the previous bourgeois government threw into the scrap heap. Fortunately, last season was the basis for this agreement. Of course, it must be said that it is quite confusing that this present bourgeois government now seems to have forgotten once again the noble principles of the contractual society, while at the same time this social contract attempt stumbles with such one-sided squeezes. But, Mr President, when we are talking about pensioners and their livelihoods in the future, I do want to ask a topical question on the eve of a budget debate on the livelihood of a pensioner here and now ask the Minister when he is here. I have in my hand an address, which has been handed over today, and it is stated here that the various cuts in housing allowance for pensioners, the increases in contributions, the freezes in the index will cause the income of some 100,000 low-income pensioners to fall between EUR 50 and EUR 200 per month. This is an intolerable situation, and I know many of the signatories to this petition who have said that they have voted for the Finns of Peru. I would now like to ask the Minister of Finland, who has a heart-to-heart, whether this is not the time to cancel? This does not correspond to the promises you made before the elections to citizens who are concerned about their livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u47	Madam President! The quality of working life and the quality of working life and good management have an important impact on the length of working careers, and they deserve attention now that the retirement age is raised. In the past, I asked the Minister about these choices made in 1989 regarding the occupational retirement age, which still affects a few thousand people in the fields of security, rescue, care and education. It is not so much a fiscal matter for the state as a matter of principle, and can you now answer this question: will the state stick to this agreement, which in 89 these people have made with the state?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u48	Mr Kiljunen, Mr Tuppurainen, Mr Sarkomaa, Mr Kopra, Mr Meri, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u49	Madam President! I would have renewed the previous question because there has been no answer. However, I would like to ask another question, which relates specifically to this occupational pension: The new proposal seeks to take into account people who have worked a long career for at least 38 years and who have contributed to the fact that the work has been very burdensome and consuming. They can retire at 63. Now, Minister, how do you distinguish this from an invalidity pension which remains valid because these arguments can be very similar? Will we come to this with precise, clear criteria, in which situation, so to speak, because of this strain and a long career, you can retire earlier and in what situation will you be on disability pension? What are the differences in criteria between them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u50	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to warmly support the so-called Taipale model that Mr Filatov has raised here. It would be a fair move to let those who have actually lost their ability to work retire rather than hang on to unemployment benefit. This action should now be carried out on a temporary basis and should allow those people to retire respectfully. I would like to draw attention, President, to this issue of gender equality: Women's and men's pension income is different. Women's pensions are significantly lower than men's pensions, which is of course due to the continuing pay gap in the labour market and the smaller careers of women. You, Minister Mäntylä, have just said encouragingly that we have something to do with equality in the labour market, but what are you going to do? We know that the focus should be on women's careers, the employment rate for women, and the key issue here is the reform of family leave, the sharing of care responsibilities more evenly between the sexes. What are you going to do, what are you referring to when you say we have a lot to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u51	Mr President! Indeed, it is important to develop working life. A good working life must be the right of every woman, every man and every age, and it is particularly important here to reduce the number of people on disability pension. We know that about 7 to 8 young adults are on disability pension every day. This must be tackled in particular. It is very important that there is a contractual society in Finland and that it should be modernised, but ultimately, in parliamentaryism, the government always bears the main responsibility. What is slightly odd is that, now that the social partners have reached agreement and the pension reform is here as a government proposal, it is unclear whether the left is behind this or not. At the same time, at the same time, you criticised the government with a great deal of words when there was no agreement on certain matters and the government takes responsibility and makes proposals. There's no head, no tail. It would be all right on the left to clarify where this is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u52	Madam President! It must then be clarified that we here on the left are in particular in favour of tripartite cooperation and agreement based on it. I have to say that, in this moment, if I am not beinglittled, I am a Member of Parliament here to legislate, it is now a situation, however, that the government must now take these decisions and that Parliament must bless this law, because the payers decide. There are two parties who bear the responsibility for this pension system on the private side of occupational pensions, and it is only natural that we, here on the left and in the Left, support this system of agreements in which the social partners agree, and we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u53	Madam President! Many speakers have raised this issue of military retirement and the concern about the changes involved, and I share this concern. Retired soldiers form the backbone of the wartime leadership system and act as a reserve of command for the wartime forces and are therefore a vital part of the defence of our country. I therefore believe that the legislator should be aware that it is not only a matter of social policy but also of defence policy when it comes to this reform, and I hope that in the parliamentary procedure the concerns about the arrangements for the retirement of soldiers will be taken into account and that how this will be done without jeopardising the credibility of our defence capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u54	Mr President! There have been good speeches here on the continuation of working life and other things. I would like to raise a few points. Perhaps there has been little talk of employment here, and I understand that the government is currently investing in it, especially since there must be a job from which to retire. That it's not the only thing, but it's very important. I would have made a few comments, and I would have asked the following questions: For example, is the government paying attention to the fact that you really retire when you want to? After all, pension institutions and insurance law, on the basis of a single doctor’s opinion, are now making these decisions without meeting a person. This has been in various social media for a very long time in the debate, and it would be good to draw attention to this fact that it is not an eternity struggle there on the ground. Then there was talk of equality between women and men, which I too find worrying. It is true that, for example, if a man receives a pension of EUR 1500, a woman will receive just over EUR 400 less. But this could be addressed through taxation, at least in smaller income categories, because now these future activities in family matters do not compensate, for example, for a woman my age — I am no longer making children — for example. I don't worry about mine, but women of the same age. As far as young people are concerned, there should now be more learning in the workplace so that we can get people to work there, because there is too little learning in the workplace — at least I have heard — in many crafts, for example in the metal sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u55	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u56	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! It is necessary to increase the retirement age, i.e. to extend working lives, in order to meet the social policy challenges that will inevitably arise from the demographic structure of Finland and the increase in the life expectancy of the population. Extending working lives will promote employment and income from employment in the economy. After all, our aim is to address the sustainability gap in public finances, and that is one way and one way to influence it. So I see the government proposal as being in line with the current situation. These facts of our time, the lengthening of life and the heavy dependency ratio, are facts to which one simply has to react. The government's proposal takes into account the quality of the work already mentioned by Minister Mäntylä. It says: "The pension for those who have worked in pregnancy would be a career pension offering the possibility for those who have worked hard and for entrepreneurs to retire before the age of old age under certain conditions." As a police officer, I am concerned about the ability and ability of my colleagues to live longer in retirement. As my colleague, Mr Jokinen, has already asked the Minister, and when my colleague, Mr Kulmala, is already preparing for his speech and also refers to the agreement reached by many of our colleagues in 89 countries, I would also like to ask Mr Mäntylä: is this agreement still true? Otherwise, I will support this bill. This is an extremely important and topical issue. I have studied this subject as a minor at the University of Helsinki, under the leadership of Professor Antti Karisto, as I read the study of aging. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u57	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here today, and I would like to add my own to the pension age reform, which has already been discussed today, particularly for police and soldiers. In 1989 the pension reform was carried out by the state, among other things. In this case, an employee, such as the police, had a right of choice if he was in a permanent employment relationship on a given date, i.e. 1.7.89, and worked in a profession with a lower retirement age. At the same time, he was granted a transitional period during which an employee entitled to an occupational retirement age had to choose between the occupational retirement age and the early retirement schemes. This agreement was concluded, among other things, by a great many police officers, including myself. I believe that this Treaty is still in force and even has constitutional protection. This proposal for pension reform is therefore unconstitutional. The workers who have made the choice continue to rely on the stability of this agreement, and this must continue to be the case, and the agreement must not be broken. If a change is now being made unilaterally, I think it is important that the amendment of the law be sent to the Constitutional Committee for review. According to the proposal, the old-age pension age of persons covered by the military pension scheme would also increase in the same proportion as for other employees. I regard the solution as poor for Finland's defence capability and also for the economy. The current retirement age system is the most effective and cost-effective way of maintaining a credible defence system. If the system were to be amended, the arguments of the defence system should also be reviewed. In today's model, when a soldier retires, he will be assigned a position in the operational leadership of the wartime. These tasks shall be those which cannot be performed in any other way than by the professional reserve. Knowledge of these tasks does not come in the moment, but through years of experience, and replacing professional soldiers would be very challenging. If the retirement age is increased by two years as proposed, approximately six hundred new posts should be set up. This would cost some EUR 40 million each year, and we simply cannot afford this in modern times — especially now that everything should be saved. Nor has the proposal taken sufficient account of the point made by employers and military organisations that the proposed increase in the retirement age weakens Finland’s defence capacity. On these grounds, I also consider the pension reform to be poorly prepared for soldiers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u58	Mr President! In particular, at the beginning of the autumn session, I would like to thank the President and the Council of President for bringing this Chamber to this proper point, namely that the Bureau sees us as representatives and vice versa. But to the point. The objectives of pension policy in the light of the indicators are, among other things, the length of working careers, the level of pensions and the financing of pensions. There has already been a great deal of talk about this. The government's proposal contains the most important legislative amendment to the earnings-related pension scheme, but there are 37 laws in this same package of laws and some of them are only subject to so-called technical changes. The reform aims to prolong working life and reduce the sustainability gap in public finances. When people’s lives have increased all the time and the forecast is similar, part of the additional years should be spent on work where possible. And hopefully, you'll find that job for everyone. This is the only way to secure an adequate and fair pension level for future generations. It is understandable that raising the retirement age is the most worrying issue for citizens. This proposal contains some things that make this concern easier, such as a career pension, which would make it possible for a person who has worked for a long career to retire before the lowest retirement age. The proposal also proposes that part-time pension as a form of pension be abolished and replaced by a partial early retirement pension. Hopefully, when a person really can't take it anymore or his health can't take it, it would be easier for him to get either this partial pension or an invalidity pension. A lot of people hear that a doctor in a pension company finds a person fit to work even if he is not. This should not be the case. One of the proposed reforms is the transitional period for the accumulation of pensions, where a higher accumulation is, as it were, an incentive to extend the working life. It is useful for a person to have more healthy years of work, but society must also take responsibility for maintaining working capacity and well-being if it so requires. In addition to well-being at work, it is also necessary to provide for opportunities for well-being at work for entrepreneurs. It is often a real challenge to be able to cope with the sole entrepreneur and the agricultural entrepreneur. Mr President! The minimum age of the insurance obligation under the Employment Pensions Act is also set out here for workers to be counted at the age of 17. It is good to have a pension increase earlier, perhaps even earlier, during summer work and working alongside studying. Especially in women, accumulation can be interrupted even for long periods of time when planning a family, so all shorter periods earlier are necessary. It is important that young people have confidence in the pension system and that in their future, too, the level of payment of pensions has been secured, and that is what we will probably do in committee in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u59	Madam President! It is excellent that the sustainability of the occupational pension system has been examined and clear changes have been made. Understandably, even if pain spots can be patched up, something may always remain. It is therefore important that the earnings-related pension scheme is periodically reviewed and that changes in the demographic structure are taken into account, among other things. From the point of view of the ordinary person, I think it is excellent that the proposal also takes account of our hard-working citizens, those who are working for our society, despite the fact that, over time, continuing hard work will have a very significant impact on the ability to work and, above all, on our own health. It is perfectly understandable that our earnings-related pension system should take this into account, because the same retirement age is not suitable for everyone. One can always wonder whether compensation is sufficient, but the main thing is that this is finally being taken into account. Madam President! Our current pension system is not sustainable. However, the good news is that the average retirement age has moved to the right tenth, but there is still a long way to go. In the current situation, the system cannot and will not stand up to what it is intended to be. It is not right for younger generations to be subject to an excessive burden of payment, because it must be borne in mind that the current system also affects many other issues, such as economic growth and employment. For example, the percentage of the TyEL levy in the current system cannot possibly remain at the current level, but would increase in danger, and it will certainly have its own impact on employment. However, the government proposal takes this into account. The Government's proposal states that pension reform will improve pension levels, especially for younger generations. The improvement in the status is not only due to longer working lives but also to a reduction in the life expectancy factor. Justice is also evident for young people, although for young people pension is a very distant matter. Although the whole is good, it is not clear, however, that people will be able to keep up with their work until retirement age. The average retirement age or average life expectancy growth does not tell the whole truth. In addition to the reform of the pension system, there is a need for determined work to be carried out on the labour market and for encouragement. I strongly believe that the actions of this government will also enable us to improve the conditions for continuing at work. So it's the right direction now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u60	Then Minister Mäntylä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u61	Mr President! Indeed, I am sorry if I have the impression that I am not answering these questions. Yes, I am answering, and I really imagined and I thought that these people would have listened to these speeches. But here I am trying to answer as many questions as I can in this short time. After all, this military retirement age has become more than one issue. Indeed, soldiers are entitled to a pension at the age of 55 as a rule, and since this age has been considerably lower than the general retirement age, it is now intended to be raised according to the same principles, just like the retirement age of others, and therefore, for a maximum of two years now, this retirement age is rising. Indeed, the idea here is that it will be raised in the same proportion as it is now in this pension reform. Then these decisions were taken in 89 C.E. This government's proposal for pension reform has now been based on the assumption that these same principles will now be applied throughout this reform. Well, then, these concrete measures were asked as to how the government is now going to promote this work. I myself have had quite a wide-ranging discussion with the various players so far on how to tackle these problems, which are already known, in practice. We do know the reasons why people are not able to cope in working life, but, unfortunately, when they are quite often left up to the level of speech, it is now precisely because it is well known that it is one of the main reasons why people are going to be on these long sick leave, and then, at worst, it also causes premature retirement and burdens on our system, of course and, above all, on a human level. Then I would also ask you to note that the government has as its top project this improvement in the position of those who are able to work part-time. Yes, I see that there are now many such things that can also improve the chances of part-time workers being part of this work system. And I see that it is one of those things that is also shown the attitude that while one person’s ability to work is weakened for one reason or another, society does not drop him out of this system, but, on the contrary, is actively taking action that he still feels that he is a full member of society. Well, one more thing about this rehabilitation: this overall rehabilitation reform is now being carried out, and certainly there will now be a very precise and precise reflection and analysis of what the challenges of today are, especially in the workplace, and what the targeted individual measures that genuinely bring that effectiveness could be. So, in our own way, we have had a very good and strong rehabilitation system, but now we are also in a very new situation, because also the reasons why people need different types of rehabilitation have changed because of changes in working life. And these too are the things that we must be able to answer in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u62	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u63	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the confidence in the pension system and the fairness of the pension system towards the various population groups and age groups. According to a survey by the Finnish Centre for Pensions, it is not praiseworthy: only about half of them believe that pension guarantees a decent income in special situations, such as incapacity for work — even fewer believe in the adequacy of pension provision. The figures have been on a significant decline in recent years, crediblely due to bad times and a lack of prospects for the future. Their share of this will probably be in the rise in living costs and prices; pensions are not expected to increase in proportion to them. A particularly disquieting picture is given of how many people in general trust that the promised pensions can be paid: less than one third. The question is whether this lack of confidence is due to the public misunderstanding of the future of the pension system or to the fact that they have understood it correctly. It is clear, at least, that young age groups who are struggling with temporary work and unemployment rightly feel that they are paying for the pension system. Pension contributions will be increased and the future pension, which is promised, will be cut unilaterally through the life expectancy coefficient. This does not apply to the large age groups and the pension ceiling is not visible. This was not considered to be necessary by the trilogue, nor was it the fact that, on average, women live much longer than men and, consequently, increase their pension longer than men. Mr President! I must say that we will certainly have work to do in the future to ensure the fairness of the pension system and to restore confidence in it. The proposed changes to the increase in pension are a good start. This legislation is only a milestone in a long and difficult task.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u64	Värderade Talman! En pensreform är ingen oviktig sak. Det är ingenting man kan ta lättvindigt eller något man kan utackordera åt någon let att skota. Det är i allra högsta grad en strategisk fråga som har ett stort inflytande på vårt arbetsliv och vår kkonkurrenskraft. Därför måste man ta reformen på allvar, man måste våga leda. Den reform som nu presenteras för oss i fel riktning. Den steder inte utbildning, den steder inte jämställdhet, den steder inte vår kokurrenskraft.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u65	Värderade fru talman! Pensionsreformen som vi nu behandlar är en av de viktigaste reformer för att förlänga arbetskarriärerna och därmed också för att minska hållbarhetsgapet. Det är i sig bra att man i förhandlingarna nådde resultat, men jag ser det ändå som problematiskt att Akava, som representerar 600000 högt skolade personer i vårt land, inte kunde stalla sig bakom den koh pensionuppgörelsen. Pensionsreformens bästa sida är att den tryggar finansieringen av arbetspensionsskyddet, och det är också bra att de unga inte blir de som ska stå för fishset, utan att de beaktas genast från början av sin arbetskarriär. Inte som när jag var ung, när det stod på papperet då jag började jobba att du får sedan Pensionsrätt effectt du har phyllt 23, men det har ingen betydelse mera. Men sedan så behöver det sägas högt att pensionuppgörelsen hade municipalities reserve betydligt bättre. Den är reformens största problem är att den inte uppmuntrar till längre arbetskarriärer, den är problemmatisk ur en jämställdhetsynvinkel när det gäller män och kvinnor, och man har inte satsat tillräckligt på att befrämja orken i arbetslivet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u66	Madam President! We are in a situation where reform of the pension system is not only necessary but also urgent. At the same time as the Finnish population is ageing and the number of pensioners is increasing, Finns will also live longer. Now the retirement age will be raised gradually and the life expectancy factor will continue to cut monthly pensions as life expectancy increases. These measures are intended to prolong working life, promote employment and improve the sustainability of public finances and the pension system. Last year, the pension reform was negotiated very thoroughly and an agreement was reached between the labour market central organisations last autumn. The agreement is therefore an excellent example of how the tripartite dialogue can continue to deliver significant social results, including on issues which undermine the position of certain groups in relation to the past. The pension settlement arose without strong pressure or threats from the state. It is necessary to increase the retirement age in order to extend working careers at the end, but this alone will not be sufficient. Even now, too many people are unable to work even up to 63 years. It would be at least as important to extend working careers in the middle. This requires investment in, for example, the quality of working life, well-being at work, education, rehabilitation and reconciliation of work and family life, and the government should also assess the effectiveness of cuts in working life and people's well-being in view of working life. But now, in the name of improving productivity, the government is going to weaken the position of workers. While trying to extend working hours and reduce holidays, the government wants to save on rehabilitation and make the first day of sickness unpaid. Many experts can work at home when they get sick, but who benefits from nurses, kindergarten teachers and construction workers coming to work in fear of losing their pay when they are sick? Their own numbers are the 230 000 unemployed who do not have access to occupational health care. We know that the longer unemployment lasts, the harder employment often becomes. If we want to improve employment and raise the effective retirement age, it would be of paramount importance to take good care of this labour reserve. However, the government is systematically now undermining the ability of the low-income and unemployed to take care of their own health and well-being. For example, customer fees for social welfare and health services are being increased, medical and travel allowances will continue to be cut, index increases in benefits will be frozen, and cuts to unemployment benefit will be made. In this situation, how can equality be ensured for all citizens to care for their own well-being and health? Madam President! The government has been backed up by a better way of settling and a culture of agreement throughout its existence. As a general rule, this has now been successful in this law, but not in all respects. As has been said several times here today, we have over 10,000 employees in Finland who have at one time made a choice between the occupational retirement age and the new pension system. Among other things, they are nurses, primary school teachers, police officers, guards, firemen. They are people who today are a very important labour force for us in many ways. In 1989, in the context of the pension reform, they were given the opportunity to choose which pension they would take in future and, accordingly, if they chose a vocational pension, they would have to waive their various rights offered to others. This is what they did: they gave up, among other things, the right to part-time pension. Now, years from now, the government will unilaterally change and dictate new conditions without appreciating previous agreements. Madam President! This is an ethical question. Can citizens no longer rely on agreements with the state? How does the government justify its course of action? How does the government seek trust in the citizens? How does the government explain this to these people who have once chosen a vocational pension scheme and thereby weakened their own life situation in relation to other colleagues? I'm asking Minister Mäntylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u67	Madam President! Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors has made commendable progress in the area of pension reform. The preparation of the proposal at the Ministry has been facilitated by the extensive work carried out over the last period. Of course, the contribution of the social partners to reaching a pension agreement is crucial. The wise decision of Jyrki Katainen’s government was to give peace of work to organizations. Experience from the previous government period showed that pension issues concern such broad interest groups that it makes no sense to try to proceed with unilateral action by the government of the country, even if the economic calculations themselves show the need for reform. Citizens, employees, employers and wage-payers with interest groups are a hard reality, where the numbers drawn in the Excel table are also a hard reality — numbers that reflect demographic trends, employment forecasts and calculated career length estimates. We are now rewarding the patient work of the last parliamentary term, which was done in the organisations. Someone may be agonizing about the time that took to find a solution. What matters is the doctrine that comes out of this: Even difficult things move forward as we move forward with open cards and mutual agreement. It only creates locks that take a lot of time to open. It is easy to lose confidence, but it is laborious and time - consuming to restore it. The proposal to reform the occupational pension system is now under discussion, 10 years after the major reform. To some extent, the objectives of the pension reform in 2005 have begun to be realised, and there is evidence of this. The optional retirement age, between 63 and 68 years, has begun to increase the retirement age. Efforts to improve occupational health and working conditions have had the same effect here and there. However, the change has been estimated to be too slow. The general rise in living standards and the success of public health work have led to an increase in average life expectancy. The increase in life brings more years to retirement. The recent pension reforms, and also this reform, are aimed at moving some of the additional years we are looking for, into years of employment. This would improve the dependency ratio and strengthen pension funding and pension accumulation. The extension of working careers will contribute to securing the financing of occupational pensions. This has an impact on the level of pension contributions, which, on the other hand, is one part of wage costs. It is easy to understand that pension solutions play an important role not only in closing the sustainability gap but also in the costs and international competitiveness of export industries. Without exaggerating the change in the earnings-related pension system, it can be considered essential from the perspective of our national economy. The reform will prolong working life and increase employment. It improves the dependency ratio and increases GDP. It ensures the sustainability of the occupational pension system and reduces the pressure on increases in pension contributions. It will bring about intergenerational justice. The retirement age will gradually increase so that this year the retirement age of those who have completed 60 years will rise by 3 months, next year by 6 months for those who have completed 60 years, and in the following year, the retirement age of those who have completed 60 will increase by 9 months, my retirement age. The retirement age of those born in 1962 will be 65 years. The age of old age born in 1965 is linked to changes in life expectancy — which we do not yet know, of course — in such a way that the ratio between working time and retirement time remains at the same level as in 2025. In other words, the mechanism takes part of the increasing years of life into working life, achieving the goal that has been here for a long time on the table. Mr President! In implementing the reform, it is important to remember that the increase in the lower limit for the old age pension age is not seen in a straight line as an increase in the retirement age. There's no such thing as automatics. Some people will continue to end up on disability pension before their retirement age. The extension of working lives also requires action other than this legislative reform. General public health work, as well as health and safety at work and occupational health care, must continue to be developed intensively. Rehabilitation must continue to be invested in and improved in the effectiveness of rehabilitation. Work should also be promoted by improving organisations and management cultures. We know that in sectors where workers have great potential for developing their own work, there is a high level of job satisfaction and long working lives. The purpose of the reform is not to increase the number of invalidity pensioners but to increase the average retirement age.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u68	Mr President! In the past, we went to work very young, that is, there were many years of work before the pension began to grow. The reform of the earnings-related pension system has been carried out in agreement between all parties involved. Great! It is a good thing that even at the age of 17, pension begins to accumulate. The benefits of this pension reform are also flexibility, but of course there are also problems in different professions, such as representatives of Kulmala, Ruoho, Mäkipää and Kiljunen have raised today. With the increase in man’s life span, the years of work increase. For some occupations, the physical challenge is more demanding when there is more age. A lot of people do a long career and when they retire, they're tired physically and mentally. The idea is that when you retire there will also be an opportunity to enjoy your retirement years, because there is finally time for that. Therefore, comprehensive health well-being should be possible for everyone at working age. Preventive action to promote health is more important than ever as automation increases, now that it has entered the digital age. Adequate exercise and healthy food are not just clichés. They are medicines that improve the quality of life. A few comments on the debate today: The absences of sick people rose to the debate in the debatation. One possibility of reducing absenteeism is the preventive action I have proposed. Equality between men and women in pensions and the reconciliation of family and work is a challenge, and work must be done and acceptable solutions found. Many retired people really have to count exactly where the money is. I have to say that a huge number of contacts have come from the cuts in the housing allowance for pensioners, a huge amount. I believe that our government will find a solution to the fact that no one will have to move out of their home because of this, a home that has lived for years, because it is difficult for pensioners to find more earnings. I believe that Minister Mäntylä is also working very hard on this. I would hope, for example, that the Left Alliance will not collect points with its election speeches here. The election is not this year, nor will it be next year. This economic crisis has not come about for a hundred days now that the government has been. It has already been born before, when the Left Alliance has also been in the government. Now we need solutions to the economic crisis, not electoral speeches and criticism alone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u69	Madam Speaker! To begin with, Mr Elomaa, the Left Alliance is trying to speak in the same way in the run-up to the elections and between the elections. The idea that different speeches would then be spoken in the run-up to the elections seems funny to us, even though it is apparently taken for granted by the Finns of Finland. Let's get to the point. According to the Finnish Centre for Pensions' Trust in Pension Security data, confidence in the pension system is seriously shaken. Less than half believe that the promised pensions can be paid. Less than a quarter consider that decision-makers take decisions in his or her best interests. Only one in three feels that the pension system is fair. It is not surprising that the principles of pension reform are most welcome by highly educated high-income managers and experts. They're the ones pulling the longest straw, once again. In this pension reform, the age groups will be divided into the benefit groups, which will be mainly soon to retire, the contributors who have been born in the 60s and 70s, and the young people who will once again benefit from the pension system if we assume that the system will remain unchanged for the next 40 years, which is, however, entirely unrealistic in the history of the world's pension systems to date. The Government's objective, according to the proposal, and the aim of the three strains in preparing it, has been to extend working careers. This objective will be achieved by extending the retirement age to 62.4 years. Are there other ways to achieve this than a general retirement age increase? Yeah. We know that, according to both subjective and objective indicators, Finland’s ability to function has improved significantly over the past few years. In fact, if anyone is still able to search through the hidden old sustainability calculations of the Internet from 10 years ago, our current retirement age is considerably higher than what those papers considered to be a target retirement age in order to solve the sustainability gap. In the light of these calculations, we should not be particularly concerned, and that is why many researchers have strongly criticised the underlying assumptions of this pension solution. Well, is the objective of extending working life, in general, reasonable, and is it worth implementing through retirement age? Well, no. The idea of longer working careers is an old way of thinking which assumes that we have clear categories between those who work and then those who belong to something else and that we have a clear life cycle during which people are first a child, then a student, then a worker and then a pensioner. In reality, we are already living in a world where the boundaries between these categories have been significantly blurred. Both the way the world seems to be going and, in my opinion, the way in which it is sensible to lead it through political decisions is rather the direction in which the blurring continues. Offering pensioners opportunities for secondary earnings and participation in working life even when they are already outside full-time paid employment. Provide people with study opportunities during their working lives, pockets where they can develop their own skills. In fact, this is already happening. Such clear careers do not exist anywhere but in political decision-makers' papers. If we think about the future trends on which we currently have information, there is at least a major change in the structure of the economy, which means a major shift from typical industrial jobs to typical jobs in the service sector, which in turn means a reduction in the size of jobs, a fragmentation of employment relationships, a blurring of the categories of entrepreneurship and pay-out and, in general, a completely different kind of mobility to the labour market than is expected in this bill. There is also a sharing economy, robotization and many other such big trends that will come in the next 20 to 40 years — that is, at a time when this system should guarantee our pension — to significantly change both the labour market and the wider Finnish society. The fact that this decision has not taken any account of these trends of change in the labour market and Finnish society shows, in my view, the most difficult issue in the tripartite preparation: People sitting there who have surrounded themselves with the most old-fashioned part of this society and who are the last to wake up to change when the change has already taken place a long time ago. For this reason, although important things have been done in Finland in the triangular, I believe that such a triangular hanging, in which no argument, no research, no generally recognised misstatement is sufficient to break the triangular, is doomed to destruction and is absurd political decision-making. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u70	Madam President! I believe that the overall reform of the occupational pension system that is now under way is very important and, for my part, I would like to thank the people who have worked on this important package of legislation. It must have been a long preparation, and it has involved very difficult negotiations, and I think the outcome, which is now at hand, is a good one. This pension reform is quite clearly taking a strain on time. Over the last few decades, we have had a huge change in the world and a very significant change in people's lives thanks to our good health care. It must also be borne in mind that the adequacy of pension funds is ensured, because the funds we collect and from which pensions are paid are not the shampoos from which there is money endlessly, but that money must be collected there with the joint effort of employers and workers and in the framework of commonly agreed rules. So the retirement age is now rising gradually to 65 years — it is good that this has been phased out, that the change is not so rapid but that we can gradually adapt to it — so that those born in 62 are the first age group to have a full-time retirement age of 65. For those who have been born since 1965, this retirement age will also be adapted to the life expectancy, which is, of course, wise, because we must remember that today we have a situation where the average life expectancy of women is about 83 years and that of men 77 years. Now, if I recall a statistic, it said that nearly half of the girls born today, in these days, see their 100th birthday. So this achieved life span, which we Finns now have on average, is not a permanent state, but people live a healthier life for longer when they take good care of themselves. It is important that this pension reform was now carried out and brought about, and it is important that the well-being of Finns continues thanks to this legislation. I consider it a very valuable thing for this package of laws as a whole that, throughout the course of the work history, this pension increase will be 1.5% and will start to be piled up at the age of 17 up to the lowest retirement age. In time, when I started working, it was only at the age of 23 that the first pension markets, according to the system at the time, grew up, i.e. they worked for the common good for a few years without their own pension provision. But it was that time, and now we are living in this time. This legislative reform will ensure that the pension system functions well into the future, as many speakers have already said in this Chamber. Linking the lowest retirement age to life expectancy is, in my view, a very good thing. This fact also includes a reduction in the life expectancy factor. The life-time factor was the coefficient by which pensions were slightly cut because Finns live longer. Well, this is also a matter that has been taken into account in this legislative reform, good. The issue of equal importance for the earnings-related pension system has never been over-emphasized, and that is that a good level of employment is a necessity for us to have a functioning pension system. For example, the government of Juha Sipilä is working to ensure that employment in this country is at least 72 per cent. With these various legislative reforms, we must ensure that this objective is achieved in this House. If employment does not work for us, there will be no accumulation of pension increases and the whole system will then be threatened. I hope that the Finnish Parliament will bear a shared responsibility in this regard, that we will be able to raise this employment rate and reduce unemployment. That is the common interest of our national economy. Finally, Madam President, one last comment on the reform. I hope that this change in the military pension system which has taken place in this Chamber too will now be dealt with in a little more depth and would go to the opinion and be heard, for example, by the Committee on Defence, of course, and then by the Defence Forces, the Chief Staff, the Border Guard and the Ministry of Defence. The military pension scheme involves so many factors from the perspective of Finland’s functioning defence and functioning reserves that it definitely deserves special attention in the handling of this law and so that these matters that are important for Finland’s defence are now fully taken into account in this legislative reform, so that we do not accidentally weaken the functioning of the Defence Forces and the reserve that is very important for Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u71	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u72	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Vehicle Transport Register and the Road Traffic Act. These amendments would partially implement the obligations of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the facilitation of cross-border exchanges of information on road safety-related traffic offences. The Court of Justice of the European Union annulled the previous CBE Directive because of the wrong legal basis. The implementation of the new Directive will require a revision of the references to the Vehicle Transport Register Act and the Road Traffic Act, with references to the new Directive. At the same time, implementation is proposed as a minor complement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u73	For table setting, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 September 2015. There was no discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u74	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 September 2015. There was no discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-08-ps-29.u75	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 September 2015. There was no discussion.
