ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Timo Kalli is asking to be released from office. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u2	The fourth item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Board of Directors of Yleisradio Oy. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u3	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Let us move on to the debate and start with a presentation by Mr Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u4	Mr President! I would like to divide my opening remarks into three parts. Let me first say a few words about the situation in the Finnish economy in the light of the Ministry of Finance's forecast, secondly, the technical entities from the amending budget and, thirdly, a few comments on growth and wage settlements, which are nevertheless linked to this entity. First of all, therefore, our economic forecast: today, the Ministry of Finance issued its forecast for the current year, with an increase of only 0.3%. The growth forecast for the following years 2016-2017 is around 1,3 %. These figures are quite close to the corresponding figures we received from the Bank of Finland. [President MariaLohela : Excuse me, Minister Stubb, will you wait a moment! I would ask the representatives to move now to hold a meeting outside the Chamber, please. — Please!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u7	Let's continue the conversation with the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u8	Mr President! In the opinion of the Social Democrats, Finland now needs investment in employment and employment measures. It's not just surgery that creates growth. This government's amending budget is the first of these governments, and at least on the basis of the speeches it could have expected that the government would take immediate action to remedy the employment situation. However, this is not happening enough. Let me give you one example and one question: Is the government aware that, in the area of several Ely Centres, there has also been a need to limit the grant of pay subsidies in connection with the granting of the Youth Guarantee and the Sanssi card? To put it this way, we're out of money. By region, the TE Offices have even had to send instructions to the staff on which target groups need to be prioritised and what they do not. The SDP believes that all Finns have the right to measures to support employment. In the absence of additional funding for these areas, this means that, according to normal practice, additional funding will only be available at the beginning of November.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u9	Mr President! This is the right point. At this stage, we cannot afford the so-called technical budgets, but we must tackle this employment situation and the lack of resources immediately. Another problem that has emerged in the government's economic policies in general along the way has been this mismatch in the tax line. The rich do not work at the same time as families with children, unemployed people, students suffer and worry. The weak are severely disciplined here. Last week, in Question Time, Deputy Prime Minister Soini promised that we could return to raising the capital tax in the autumn budget debate, that we would get the fairness that the people wanted, and now I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb: are we in the process of preparing for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u10	Mr President! Good points, but finding the people who did this at this point might be pointless. If, at this stage, some appropriations are lacking in terms of employment, then there will probably be people elsewhere, perhaps among those who have been building the budget. In the Committee on Finance, we have stated that we want to consult experts on this matter and to clarify this situation. However, it must be borne in mind that this item in the supplementary budget is not open, but there are good conditions for a study. Otherwise, I understood and underline everything that is here, that this predictability has the potential to create space for growth, to generate investment, and that is what will result in growth, and that is what we must all safeguard and work towards achieving a broad consensus for this society, which will also enable wage solutions in the future but also in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u11	Mr President! Representative Rinnes: no one has any magic crumbs to create a new job in a month, and in that respect it can be said that even in this Chamber there will be no miracle workers immediately. I agree with Mr Rinne that pay subsidies are a very important part of its employment and, in that respect, it is appropriate to raise the issue. We have more than 100,000 long-term unemployed, for whom wage support employment is one of the most important means. Many of our wage support workers are otherwise small companies or associations that also have no large balance sheet assets, then pay wages in advance. I hope that we in the Committee on Budgets will go through the fact that the ten-week waiting period for the salary subsidy money to come to the account is quite unreasonable. It is good that we also raise these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u12	Mr President! I did not go back on any wonder sticks, but I went back for money for these people who are unemployed, for pay support, for the implementation of the youth guarantee, for the Sassi card. At the moment, as the Minister for Finance said in his speech, unemployment is higher than anticipated, and that is why I am now calling for these measures quickly. Now there is a situation in which we are going several months, six months and six months forward, without being able to correct the situation for these people, taking into account the pay subsidy and the youth guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u13	Mr President! It is true that pay subsidies and start-up, business and other money are useful in this society, but we have to see this big picture gradually. This was a good thing that we got this employment and growth pact through a moderate solution, but if we are not able to improve competitiveness, then our economic growth will not start and the employment situation will not start to improve. The Bank of Finland's calculations of a 5% reduction in unit labour costs will very quickly lead to an increase of 11 billion in gross domestic product and will accelerate economic growth by 1.2% a year and will have undisputed, good employment effects. So these things are now being taken forward together, and I hope that the opposition will also do everything in their power to bring this social pact to the end of the third year of this employment and growth pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u14	Mr President! I would just like to say that the SDP is behind a social agreement that seeks consensus by agreeing, not by using a blackmail screw. And then I say that these growth measures, on the one hand, and the management of unemployment, on the other, are not in any way opposed. Wage support, start-up money and the Youth Guarantee result in people being employed by them, and therefore increasing them in this situation would have been a sensible policy for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u15	Madam President! I ask, Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance: there is money in the item in the Ministry of Finance — what is the administrative obstacle that this money cannot be allocated to, among other things, Central Finland, where is the highest unemployment rate in the Ely Centres, the crying shortage of money? There's money, but there's no way to target it. My second question concerns global responsibility. Is it really the case that the auction revenues for allowances up to May, even those that have already been agreed on for development cooperation, will no longer be allocated to development cooperation? Is that really so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u16	Mr President! It is valuable that attention has been paid here to this inadequacy of the appropriations for youth unemployment. However, on the part of the Social Democrats, I can now say that I myself raised a written question on this issue at the beginning of March this year, when the then Minister for Labour, Sd, did not intervene with sufficient vigour, nor did the then Minister for Finance, who asked for the same thing, have taken action in this regard. That this has been on the table before, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u17	Madam President! In the past, these employment appropriations were one year's fixed appropriations, and sometimes they were not used, and then we moved on to this transfer policy. Today, in the Committee on Budgets, we have heard that we need an account of the real situation with regard to these employment appropriations at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. That's what I would have asked the Minister for Employment and the Economy, but he's not in the box right now. But I ask the Minister of Finance about this: Last week there was a very positive announcement that these deficits did not put us in the observation class, but what is this outlook from now on? Have these economic measures been considered sufficient to avoid that deficit monitoring?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u18	Madam President! The policy of the new government to invest in strengthening companies, entrepreneurship and domestic ownership is in the right direction. But in addition to the end of these pay subsidies, the start-up money has also run out, and this makes it more difficult for companies, organisations and municipalities to find employment. Several weeks ago, the last positive start-up decisions were taken in several provinces when the money ran out. The situation is totally unsustainable, and the problem has already been known in the spring of winter. My question is: why has the government not responded to this when it made the amending budget? I still noticed today when I visited the Ministry of Finance's website that it says that the Ministry of Finance is implementing the government's economic policy guidelines. This raises the question of whether the Ministry of Finance will implement the policies of the previous government or the guidelines of the new government on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u19	Honorable Speaker! It is a good thing and a good thing that the SDP has raised this issue of wage subsidies in this second additional budget debate, although this item is not open here. As has been said, Mr Kalli said that we are about to receive a report from the 5 to 6 Ely Centre, which is the situation with regard to these elys. Then it must also be noted that, in fact, 10.1 million were sent to Ely Centres on June 15th. This is something that the opposition has effectively forgotten. And, indeed, we are trying to identify the administrative obstacles that may be present here. Let us hope, of course, that all possible subsidies could be paid there, but the bottoms of the cashier have been looked at quite a bit, to the bottom, and this is 10.1 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u20	Mr Jokinen would be able to answer — he asked, what is the situation with regard to these appropriations — that it is very clear: there is no money. North Ostrobothnia has been out for over a month now. No new periods of pay support shall be granted. No new start-up money will be given to entrepreneurs. One cannot help but marvel at this technical nature of the government's amending budget. We would now need a genuine, employment-friendly, employment-oriented amending budget, rather than a technical budget. Wage support is good for both the unemployed and the state, municipalities and employers. It makes more sense for society as a whole to suspend the continuation of human unemployment through positive employment. I would like to ask: would it not be sensible for municipalities to pay these so-called unemployment fines to the state that, for example, these unemployment fines should be redirected back to the regions as these pay subsidies for employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u21	Mr President! The revenue side of the additional budget clearly shows the division that is further strengthened by the Government Programme. Returns on capital income, corporation tax and inheritance tax amounted to EUR 570 million more than expected — i.e. more than half a billion euros more from those who have received several billion euros in dividends, profits, inheritances. Minister Soini rightly said here in Parliament that capital tax could be increased. What answers Minister Stubb? The division is most evident in the fact that even half of this additional revenue is lost to the wind, as VAT revenue was EUR 283 million below expectations. Why? Well, because people can't afford to spend. It is easy to draw the conclusion from these two figures: the highest capital tax can be slightly increased to keep the low-income ones on the move by consuming the wheels of the economy. Unfortunately, the government programme works exactly the opposite. You've got the wrong picture. Once again, I appeal to the government: tax the rich, save the poor from cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u22	Mr President! After all, the task of the additional budget is to correct the shortcomings and errors of the actual budget. It is quite surprising if, in the middle of the year, there is a threat of an end to some budget. Yes, it means that, in December last year, either that issue has not been considered important or it has not been possible to predict how the economy will actually develop. An important contribution to this additional budget is that it gives an up-to-date, equatorial picture of how this economy develops. Above all, the fact that these VAT returns and energy taxes raised just now by Mr Haraka are deteriorating by more than 400 million is perhaps a reflection of the decline in the activity of the real economy. These up-to-date background information on this additional budget only proves that the Government Programme guidelines were adopted at 11 a.m., at the last minute,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u23	Mr President! I agree with the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, that the creation of a growth and employment pact is very important. I also think that this continuation of the agreement is an indication of the functioning of the Finnish contractual society, and it is thanks to the social partners. As far as this situation is concerned, I am a little surprised at what Mr Vanhanen has said, because if you think about the creation of new companies in the Ostrobothnian region: we are currently running out of start-up money in the Ely Centre of Ostrobothnia. I do not believe that the question is that we did not want to budget enough money there, but that businesses have been created, new entrepreneurs have been found, there has been a demand for start-up money, and that is a positive thing. That is why I would like to see the government still assess whether there are opportunities within the Ministry of Labour and Life to transfer money to ely centres, and hence also to pay subsidies and, above all, to start-up funds, so that we can get new business started. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance about emissions trading revenue when I thought I saw that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u24	Madam President! One big part of this is Winterfell. Winterfell is our great common concern. A record number of reminders have been made from the pipeline to Lake Nuasjärvi, and there is no trust in Winterfell; unfortunately, social credit is zero. Soon we will have lost half a billion common state funds, 11 million going every month. However, it is impossible to stop this well and it is therefore necessary to allocate additional appropriations there. Someone has to make sure that at least environmental damage is avoided in the future. Otherwise, there could be an even worse disaster. So here I hope the government will have a great deal of responsibility. The decision on car tax in the Government Programme has caused a slight market disturbance in the car trade. The car trade has stopped and we are now waiting for a solution, a policy and a decision on this car tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u25	Mr President! It is regrettable that we received this draft amending budget so late in Parliament, only a few hours ago. In the future, it would be desirable for the government to be able to do so in time for the representatives to get a proper look at this. But, Mr President, I would like to continue with this issue of Winterfell. The biggest single target here is now EUR 112 million, which again goes to Winterfell. We all know the problem, we know that it is not in any way easy to find a solution, but I would also like to hear now how the Minister of Finance sees this. Is there a risk that we will continue to have to provide additional funds from state resources for Winterfell in the future, or can we now assume that it will be over now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u26	Mr President! I believe that this amending budget is a stable and permanent economic policy which the government has decided to pursue. We do not make sudden moves, and this is a small part of the big plan. The SDP has already stated in its opening speech that the money is out. Well, I have to ask: What is the reason for this and for what governments? Why was there not enough investment in employment during the previous parliamentary term if, after two or three weeks of work, the new government is now being asked to invest more in employment? And where does this money come from when it's gone? I guess it's a debt again. But I assure the opposition and the country as a whole that we will correct the mistakes of the previous parliamentary term, but that will require more than three weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u27	Mr President! I regret that Mrs Kaikkonen has already been able to leave when I would have said a few words about the measures taken by the previous government, in which the current Minister for Finance was Prime Minister, for this year. On 12 February, an amending budget was adopted with a total of around EUR 280 million in powers and additional appropriations in support of employment and growth, with a direct budgetary impact of EUR 80 million for this year. These are the concrete measures that can create new jobs, not just speeches. Now, in these papers, in this amending budget, it seems that this government is speaking but is not doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u28	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Urpilainen for his constructive speech. It is precisely the kind of opposition that we need that raises the issue, that calls for them to be corrected, but that raises them in the spirit that we are actually asking ourselves whether something can be done. It is important that companies succeed. If small and medium-sized enterprises do not succeed, we will not get new jobs and livelihoods here. That is why we need to take care of the competitiveness, which is why we need to take care, for example, with regard to the taxation of passenger companies, that taxation does not become excessive, that we can get that new job to come. It is not true that this government has not taxed the rich, it continues to pay the solidarity tax. It is not true that this government does not, for example, intervene in the benefits of the well-off. It's where the Kela benefits come from.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u29	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has already paid attention to Winterfell here. It is going to be the biggest single addition, as Mr Stubb has just told us. Winterfell’s brilliant start has turned out to be miserable: the damage to the environment followed one another. Now that we're about to take this kind of new step, a new start, it's very important that this damage spiral doesn't happen again. If Winterfell turns out to be unprofitable in the future, we must take responsibility not only for the environment but also for the people who risk losing their jobs in that situation. In fact, I would have asked the Minister for Finance: has there been any provision for this, and what does the future of Winterfell look like?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u30	Madam President! Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb, how do you respond to suspicious people who wonder how to make Talvivaara a profitable company on market terms? It has been pumped, pumped and pumped continuously in the future, currently EUR 11 million a month, and let us hope that at some point a private investor will be able to put more money there. But how market-based Winterfell can do any calculations in the future? Tell me this. Convince me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u33	Mr President! I share Mr Rinne's concern about these employment funds, since it has become clear that there are a lot of young people who are willing to go to support work but who are not now able to do so, and there are entrepreneurs who would like to employ, and when we do not know why this is happening, then we have to tackle this. And here it is certainly not worth looking for who is guilty, but what is the solution. That's the right principle. The second thing that is surprising in this additional budget is that, now that this car tax issue has been brought into the government's programme and has been promised not to remove it but to reduce it, there is no solution in this additional budget that we are doing something about it. I don't know if Secretary Stubb's been to the car store. I myself was visiting last week and had to find that it was very quiet. Sellers are worried about the situation. Many entrepreneurs are also very concerned. Under the circumstances of small margins, this halting of the car trade is causing great difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u34	Madam President! We really are in the budget deficit this year, and that is not only a problem for Finland but also a shame, and that is not the way forward. However, we have the biggest deficit in the economy with a lack of confidence. There has been a lack of confidence in Finland: companies are afraid to invest, people are afraid to consume. This lack of confidence is what we can now achieve with long-term work, and I think that, as Mr Vanhanen said, the Government Programme and its reform programmes — the Employment and Growth Pact and the possible Social Pact — will create such a basis of confidence, and that is how Finland can start to rise. Now we have heard the first positive investments this week also in that direction in Turku, and I think this will continue if we can restore confidence in the Finnish economy. That is why it is a matter for all of us in this House to support this economic recovery programme, led by the government and Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u35	Madam President! We have rightly been concerned about the loss of funds from certain ely centres, but the big picture is that the whole of Finland will be out of money. This big picture is worth keeping in mind. It is an excellent thing for the labour market to be able to agree on the third year of the Employment and Growth Pact, but the key issue now is whether a social agreement between the government and the organisations can be reached that would improve our competitiveness. I have already asked here that those who are opposed to such a reduction in unit labour costs should tell us which economic research institute or expert says that this will not lead to an increase in employment in the longer term. There's no answer, so that leads to it. Now I ask Mr Rinte again: is the SDP in favour of this social pact envisaged by the government? I think your previous answer was quite open to interpretation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u36	Mr President! As I said earlier, the SDP is in favour of a social pact that can improve Finnish price competitiveness and the economic scope of Finnish society by various means. The SDP is not prepared to support a social agreement that blackmails a party with a blackmail screw, as this government proposal is currently doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u37	Madam President! I'm rather dissatisfied with Mr. Rinte's answer. Perhaps we should ask Mr Viitanen, who, according to the press, is the financial speaker of your group. If the SDP is in favour of this social pact, it is in favour of improving the competitiveness that the government is seeking, and it is in favour of this way, without any doubt — or of presenting any other kind of proof — in a completely longer period of time, employment will undoubtedly be improved and, therefore, people's livelihood, security, the state of the country as a whole will be improved if you are in favour of this agreement, then I do not understand this strain on this blackmail or the tightening screw. The government has openly stated that if we do not get the competitive leap and the positive effects that this social pact seeks if we do not achieve them, then we will inevitably have to take new measures to balance the economy. How can this affect whether the agreement is good or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u38	Mr President! In 2013, I circled 162 companies across Finland and became convinced that there are such small measures that allow productivity development and thus unit price costs to be calculated. They do not come in such a way as to reduce domestic purchasing power by 5% wage reductions or increase working hours by 100 hours in a situation where machines have a 60 % utilisation rate. We need such solutions that genuinely reduce unit labour costs through productivity growth — and real productivity growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u39	Mr President! I do not quite understand Mr Zyskowicz's logic, because it is based on the fact that a social pact is needed — as we believe in the Social Democrats — but at the same time you need and advocate a social pact that only takes the side of one team. I do not understand why the government should take the lead in putting itself directly on the employers' side. Give up this blackmailing screw, and then everything in the kingdom will be fine. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance, when you are well aware of the procedure for increasing the budget and we have long believed that this is the way in which we can respond to the challenges of time: We have nearly 450,000 unemployed. Why could it not be thought that the Ely Centres would no longer be able to employ? I speak very seriously, for example, on behalf of my own province. We must be able to make employment policy in this time. I ask the Minister for Finance: why are you not using this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u40	Mr President! I wonder what the SDP is wondering about these ely centers running out of money. They have had a Minister for Labour who has been quite clear that the money has been scarce and there are also long payment periods for these employment subsidies, 10 weeks. And that was at the time when we had the Minister of Finance Rinne and also the Minister of Labour of the SDP. You might rather ask: Why did the SDP do nothing when you already knew about it when you were in the government? In fact, the problem at the moment is that municipalities today have an increasing responsibility for financing unemployment security for the long-term unemployed. We should therefore consider how this overall system will be changed in such a way that the municipalities, which are also responsible for financing this more than it is today, will also be responsible for these instruments, when we will have to consider whether this mechanism, which is currently operating, is the right one for this moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u41	Thank you, Madam President. There is one voice here about the opposition and the government wondering why these subsidies are running out, and the other is blaming the others. One such logical reason for the end is that this ceiling for aid rose from EUR 1,300 to EUR 2000 at the beginning of this year, and that means that the same money is enough for an ever smaller number of people. Of course, it is great that this means that the amount of pay went up, but then the amount to be supported fell. In my opinion, it would not necessarily be necessary to have new money here, but, above all, to redefine it. At the moment, many of the disadvantaged people have dropped out of this pay subsidy money, and in that sense I would like to see the ministry, then the Ministry of Employment, re-directed to that field so that we can return to these lower levels of support, and in that way more people will then be covered by this pay subsidy in the future. On top of that, [President MariaLohela : Time to meet. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u44	Mr President! I'd like to continue with the representative. Good speech by Essayah. This reform of the Pay Subsidy Act came into force at the turn of the year and has meant, in the opinion of at least the third sector, that all channels are now blocked. It became such a complex system that, although we have 450,000 unemployed people in the centre, we are not going to find the right unemployed people to meet the criteria. This comes from all, even large, third-sector employers all the time, and they say do something. In other words, legal reforms can also take these very important things back, and we now have such a task that this law must be reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u45	Mr President! I would like to return to this issue of Winterfell. We are now in the second amending budget, together with the first, to add EUR 209 million to this Winterfell operation, and yet, since the fact is that we do not know a real investor who wants to put money into it — I do not think it will necessarily come to pass — how long has it been thought out, are we going to see that for two more years now that this business is starting to make any profit and that we will find a partner in it, or are there now clear alternatives to it, that either the state itself will go into mining or this Winterfell will be driven down? If the mining industry is driven down, its price is estimated at about EUR 300 million — who knows if it will be even more. When will this be the final decision, how will this move forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u46	Madam President! The opposition has been called for constructive action here, and I do find the way of Mr Lauslahti to throw the ball back to the previous government a little strange. After all, we are dealing with the amending budget given by this government, and you now have these solutions in your hands. I also find this strange way of talking about the need to take care of competitiveness and not of long-term unemployment. It is precisely the prevention of prolonging unemployment that is absolutely essential for our competitiveness. This government's amending budget is now also prepared to cover the costs of rising unemployment, but not to invest in reducing unemployment itself through employment. In my opinion, this is a political choice, not a technical one from the government. I also think it is very important that, regardless of whether there is at present too little resources in this budget item at all, or that they are incorrectly allocated, not only be made clear, but also do something about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u47	I will give the floor to the representatives of Ihalainen, Vanhanen and Filatov, and then take five minutes from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u48	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to these employment funds. At the time of the establishment of the Katainen Government, it decided first of all on a generous package of funding for young people's employment. At the time, the financial situation was somewhat similar to that of today, but it was a value choice. We must remember that we are now in a position to employ, train and involve about 130,000 people, which is a great thing. This has only been possible because we have had a reasonable amount of employment appropriations. Every year, 100 million have been invested in the employment of young people, and the guarantee has produced a great deal of results in this respect. But the problem now is that we are going to cut more employment appropriations from next year, totalling EUR 110 million! How do we deal with these things from now on, if this is the idea? The first step should be to make an additional budget and to ensure that this cut is not made next year, because unemployment is very high. Now the question is, is this the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u49	President! Almost every debate and debate here always varies the subject of the criticism of the cuts. This time it is an employment budget which is extremely unpleasant, also in relation to the 2016 budget. The government will have to cut appropriations from almost every sector, and this will be done because this economy is developing badly. We need this social pact. In fact, Mrs Rinte's last speech raised my concern about the SDP's attitude towards the social pact, that you think that this competitiveness leap is created by the productivity measures that are being carried out in the company, which are being carried out all the time. The government is looking for a real additional competitiveness leap that Sweden and Germany doesn't. What we want is an answer: will you support the 5 percentage points of competitiveness leap, the level we are looking for? Do you support it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u50	Mr President! The SDP specifically supports the productivity leap, but we see more than price competitiveness as a factor in productivity, and here we certainly have a big ideological idea that the government is going to go for more price competitiveness, while the Social Democrats are looking at productivity a little more broadly. That is why I would argue that your view — precisely if we look at what you are going to do after that if that social pact does not exist — is that you are going to cut out of adult education, you are going to cut off from the universities, and you are going to cut off from the skills, that is, from the very tools that can be used to apply for that productivity on a knowledge-based basis and not just through price competitiveness. But as far as the employment budget is concerned, it is always very difficult to anticipate it, because we do not know how much start-up money can be employed, how much training can be carried out, how much jobs are employed by companies, and it is therefore traditional practice that employment appropriations should be assessed in the context of the additional budget and precisely in this spring. Minister Ihalainen from the previous government is a modest man
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u51	Mr President! I will try to answer a few specific questions and say a few general words. Perhaps the first thing to remember — perhaps especially all those who are following this debate at the moment — is to keep the scale in mind. So now we are discussing an amending budget of 172 million, of which 112 million will go to support Winterfell, which the Minister for Economic Affairs will answer in that moment. This means that the next amending budget in the autumn will leave us with an undivided budget of around EUR 128 million. If we adjust and relate this to the whole, the Finnish government's budget will run in it at EUR 53 billion and, according to the Ministry of Finance's forecast, our gross domestic product will be EUR 206 billion this year. This is indeed a technical amending budget and on that basis it is worth considering. I would like to make three comments, President: The first relates to the overall economic situation. The fact is that no matter what we do or no matter how colorful a conversation we have, the fact does not change: we are living in an age of low growth. Even the best estimates will give us an increase of about 1.5% over the next 15 years. And, of course, through the state, public finances must be adapted to this whole. Many speakers — rightly so — drew attention to unemployment. Unfortunately, we have a situation where we have around 105,000 long-term unemployed, an increase of 15%, and we have about 205,000 structural unemployment, an increase of 10%. In other words, we can say that as much as 8% of unemployment in some way is trapped in structural unemployment. That's the problem we need to fix. Of course, this has a lot to do with the need to achieve growth, to be more competitive, to produce exports. However, if I were to bring up something positive about this overall picture, perhaps two things: If you look at the Ministry of Finance’s forecast for this summer, private consumption will grow and even remain quite brisk, according to the Ministry of Finance. In 2015, it will increase by 1.2 per cent. Why? The fact that there has been a debt reduction period, which opened up around EUR 7 billion, secondly, the price of energy is low, it opens up about one billion, and then the expectations of our future consumers are in fact positive. Another good news: Let us not forget, in the face of all these difficulties, that our investments have gone back to a long dry period. And also the estimate that the Ministry of Finance gives us and predicts for 2016 and 2017 is definitely up-turn, 4.6% and 4.2% and actually 5.7 and 5.4 on the private side. There are only positive news over the last few days: Sonera Data Centre, the investment of the Äänekoski pulp plant, in addition to the shipyard order, two cruise ships. And if we add Finavia's investments to Helsinki Airport, something is happening here on the investment side, and I think this is a good thing overall. The second point I wanted to make relates to government action. Our objective is to adapt to about EUR 6 billion by 2021. The social pact is one of the key elements of this, and I hope — and we hope — that it will come about in one form or another. However, we actually have two leading ideas here. The first is that we can no longer tighten taxes. So in Finland — this is one of the highest rates of taxation in Europe for all those who have just spoken about taxes. It shall be 44 %; The OECD average is 34 and the EU15 and 39.5. Unfortunately, the possibility of tightening our tax rates is rather limited. In addition to this, we have one of the strongest developments. Reference was made here to Mr Soin's comments on capital taxes. We will see, of course, always taxation as a whole, but I do not think that we will find a solution to tightening the rate of capital taxation. We need more investment and investment incentives in this country at the moment, not the other way around. They asked me about the car tax when to make that decision. As far as I am concerned, there was a good debate on the salaries. So this is where the form has changed from the flat-rate allocation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u52	Is there any further desire to speak in terms of the debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u53	Mr President! The debate on Winterfell has been going on for years with great expectations and also, unfortunately, with great disappointment. However, Wintervaara still has the potential to become a significant and economically viable mine, and from that point of view, additional funding is in order. No one will dispute the importance of Winterfell as a regional employer. Winterfell is the most important industrial employer in Kainuu. The employment impact of the Talvivaara mine totals almost 2,000 person-years when the multiplier effects are taken into account, and its own personnel account for almost 80 per cent of Kainuu employees. More than half of the mine contractors’ personnel also live in Kainuu. In addition to Kainuu, economic growth and employment will be strengthened in seven other regions. The biggest benefits are Satakunta and Lapland. Whatever the future of the mine, we must ensure that environmental issues are properly resolved. The basic prerequisite for the operation of modern mining must be that the environmental aspect is taken into account with all seriousness. The company must take responsibility for environmental issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u54	Madam President! Once it is known here that the employment budget is inadequate, I believe that we cannot afford to leave these young people, like the 1990s, without the opportunity to find employment and the first job. I hope and trust now that the Minister for Finance has just spoken that funding will be increased in June. The second question for the Minister of Finance is that, when we have concerns about this employment, why is there no action in this amending budget to increase growth and employment — the kind of projects that the State could have launched in order to create more jobs? The third question is that, since there is no use of these emissions trading revenues at all now, for which I am very sorry, how do you intend to finance climate negotiations in December and we have committed to the climate fund, as I recall, of EUR 80 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u55	Mr President! I think that we are all in a situation where very significant additional appropriations are not going to go anywhere in the next four years. Perhaps in this area too we should adopt the approach of introducing the reforms in the government programme that will create new elements for business and labour supply that will encourage the creation of businesses and the recruitment of new workers. I think that when you have a purse empty, you should get power from these reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u56	Mr President! If my eyes are not quite mistaken now, I would see that there is now a coalition finance minister sitting in that box, and it seems that there is also a representative of the Kaikkonen Party. That is why, in my opinion, the debate on what a previous government has done or what it has done is in itself backward. It is not unusual for money to run out of money, but it is extraordinary that if this happens, it will not be addressed. During the previous government, supplementary budgets were always made, at the request of the Social Democrats, into supplementary budgets for employment. You have the opportunity to address this problem here and now. How is the government going to cope with this problem of young unemployed people if you really leave the young people alone and expect something next autumn? On the contrary, next year you will be cutting employment appropriations. Seriously, in the interests of honesty, you could now tell me how you are solving this situation here and now. That's the lack of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u57	Mr President! I have four years of cooperation with the Socialist Minister for Finance at the time, and they held to their euro each year that the additional budget mandate, that room for manoeuvre, will never be exceeded: that it was now EUR 300 million for this year, which is an additional budgetary reserve, should not be exceeded. It's part of our trust. We still have six months ahead of us, and that leaves us with just over EUR 100 million for the whole of this six-month period. An additional budget is also needed in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u58	Mr President! I hope that cooperation has been pleasant with the Social Democratic Finance Ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u61	Madam President! It is a good thing that we are having a proper debate on these start-up and pay subsidies, because we do realise that this situation is currently unsustainable. But I understand that the government still has unallocated funds this year, and it would be a long time ago to address this problem. Otherwise, the additional bill can only increase with the difference that money comes from a different item.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u62	Madam President! I'm a little confused. I thought the government was put together precisely among parties with a common overall picture of the situation in Finland. I thought it included, for example, the knowledge that unemployment has increased, and common solutions were such as to activate, not passivating. I also thought that the common picture was that there was a desire for more companies in Finland, and one such way is to help with start-ups and help start-ups. Now that we know that it is precisely these things that are currently suffering from a lack of money, I do not quite understand the argument that the technical amending budget would not have allowed it to invest in these, because it is a common picture of the situation. In particular, those regions where unemployment has increased and which are already active in the past are now facing difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u63	Mr President! There have been many requests from ministers for development appropriations, but unfortunately there seems to be no correct response. To quote Mika Waltar, it is said that man is man's only brother in this world. I think this kind of thinking is quite unfortunately forgotten. There has been a lot of talk here about these unfortunate decisions that are directed at Finland, but as far as the dimension of the world is concerned, I would like to remind you of these unfortunate decisions that the government is unfortunately making. As we are all well aware, there are more refugees in the world today than there have been since World War II. Once again, I would like to ask specifically about this 37 million which are currently missing from the amending budget: why is that? It is a good thing that this allocation of 19.5 million has been increased specifically for asylum seekers and reception of refugees, and then this 0.7 for the Finnish Immigration Service.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u64	I will give the floor to Mr Henriksson, Mr Niikko, Mr Aalto and Mr Lindtman, and then to Mr Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u65	Mr President! Now that Minister Rehn has arrived, I would like to ask the same question that I asked Minister Stubb. In other words, many of us citizens are now concerned about Winterfell, and EUR 112 million is a huge sum. Is there any end to this great problem of ours? Is the government making any decisions or helping to make a decision that will enable us to sleep well at night in the future and be sure that the government will not have to invest millions more in this? Are there such solutions in sight, or are there still problems ahead?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u66	Mr President! I drew attention to this same issue as Mr Razmyar, to this increase in immigration costs, but from a slightly different point of view. With this EUR 19.5 million, which was added to the treatment and cost of the increase in the number of asylum seekers here in Finland, and according to my information, this is not so much because the Mediterranean countries come here as asylum seekers, but come directly from Somalia. The largest group of people is Somalis. I would have asked this question: when, in my opinion, the strong growth of one group of people refers to organised action, if a large number of people can come here from there, is there any way to see how much this can affect the fact that such movements, such as asylum tourism, are not organised? I know that eight NGOs are currently operating in Somalia,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u67	Madam President! I asked Mr Stubb two questions. The first concerned Winterfell — I did not receive an answer. The second question concerned these allowances auction revenues — I did not receive an answer. Alexander Stubb put forward many projects, investments, but most of them include thanks to Antti Rinte, among others: 138 million in my region of Central Finland, Äänekoski. Thank you for not withdrawing that decision, unlike the money you already agreed to cancel out of the auction revenues. And as far as employment is concerned, I am simply crystallizing: we have two options. Either we do what we do now — we pay for people not having a job — or we pay for people getting a job. Apparently the government chooses the line that people are out of work, paid more social support, going into this kind of even stronger recession debt cycle. Without growth, there will be no work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u68	Madam President! Here, therefore, the government has focused on justifying why it is doing nothing more than cut back on development aid in this amending budget. But it is precisely the projects that Mr Stubb put forward here that show what can be achieved if the government is active: the Äänekoski project — from the last government's additional budget to 138 million infrastructure projects. Innovation aid for shipbuilding enables these orders. And then this Finavia, which you took as an example — an indication of what the amending budget can accomplish. Minister Urpilainen gave EUR 200 million to Finavia, which now makes it possible to build in Vantaa at the moment. And now that you have spoken of this picture of the situation, that the picture is clear now, and you yourself said that unemployment is higher than anticipated, which shows that you are prepared for an increase in passive money, if you have this picture of the situation, why are you not doing anything with these employment appropriations now? 128 million
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u69	Then Minister Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u70	Madam President! In three minutes, three answers: The first relates to these investments. I find it terribly important that politicians do not start to take credit for private investment. We must now bear in mind that some investment in Äänekoski is certainly not thanks to politicians. The Sonera data center is certainly not thanks to politicians. Helsinki Airport, Finavia — yes, it is partly something that has been helped along the way, but I think that we politicians are the ones who, as it were, create the great investments, once and for all create the wrong impression of what a politician or a policy can do, and it also creates a rather distorted image of what can be done in the amending budget. The second point is actually related to the issue of asylum seekers and immigration, and I would like to say this quite clearly: I believe that one of the greatest and most important challenges and issues facing Europe and the European Union this decade is refugee and security policy. And it goes to the kind of category that, in my opinion, touches the essence of the whole of the European Union. And this is not a question of amending budgets or budgets, but of a purely humanitarian income angle. At the moment, we have countries that have to receive tens of thousands of refugees and asylum seekers, and then we must be able to work together in Europe to think about how this burden is best shared. Yes, I understand those who say that cutting development aid money is a problem in the sense that we should deal with the problem in the country of destination, but that is once and for all the economic situation we are in. Representative Aalto, I'm not in charge of Winterfell, because we have the relevant minister here. As far as development cooperation is concerned, we long appreciated what we were doing with the emissions trading revenue which, I think, still amounted to EUR 37.7 million this year, and unfortunately, in this amending budget, we came to the conclusion that we could no longer afford it. Why? Because there can also be unexpected situations in the autumn and then we cannot go beyond the framework and we must have the allocation reserve that Mr Vanhanen mentioned. I regret this, but at some point it is the unfortunate choice of the Minister of Finance where the line is drawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u71	Then Minister Rehn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u72	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to Mr Henriksson: I was there all the time, but I was there nice in the desk and I listened and took notes of the debate. Here a number of representatives — Tuppurainen, Aalto, Henriksson, Heinonen among others — have asked direct questions about Winterfell, and I can comment here and try to answer some questions. The starting point is that decisions We can't move on from Winterfell anymore. It's time for solutions. The taxpayer's tab can't be endlessly open. Today, Talvivaara spends EUR 12 million a month on taxpayers' money. The primary objective is to get mining in Talvivaara to continue with an operational partner. So there is a commercially viable solution. At the same time, however, if this does not happen, it will also be necessary to prepare for a controlled closure of the mine at the expense of the State. It would not be cheap either: the price tag is estimated to be EUR 300 million, and that may also be low. But you can't leave Winterfell. It would not be responsible, nor would it be in accordance with environmental permits, to leave the mine to the waste and waste. The rejection of the mine would result in damage repair and damages being increased, resulting in irreparable damage to nature and the environment. Representative Heinonen wished the government a great deal of responsibility. This is what needs to be done, and that is why the state has to play an active role in setting up a sustainable solution, and the government has now presented this EUR 112 million amending budget proposal for Winterfell. In this respect, the State is prepared to commit itself through Terrafame to the start of a new mining company with a significant share. However, the aim is to actively expand the ownership and financing structure of the new company, and it must be possible to demonstrate within two years that the mine can be made viable and economically viable. The continuation of mining is now in overtime. Whether a long-term solution is created by extending time depends on many factors. The measurement window is the state of water and the environment, the regional economy and employment in Kainuu and, of course, the interests of taxpayers. Representative Rinne called for concern about employment. That's right. I totally agree with you. We're worried about that. There are currently 400 jobs in Winterfell and, as Mr Tuppurainen said, a total of 2000 jobs in Kainuu depend on the future of Winterfell. Yes, we are also concerned about Kainuu's jobs with this solution. We are concerned about the state of the environment and the interests of taxpayers and we are trying to find a solution that will soon create the conditions for long-term, sustainable action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u73	There seems to be a desire for a few more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u74	Mr President! I do not know if I heard correctly, but I thought I heard that the Minister of Finance said about this investment in Finavia that the state has, in a verbatim quote, 'did not help' that investment. I mean, it's only been a little helpful with the decisions that have been made. Firstly, this investment will generate 14,000 jobs during construction. It will bring 5,000 permanent jobs as air traffic increases. For its part, it enables Finnair, for example, to succeed. This is a state-owned company, Finavia, and it would not have been possible to make this investment without the decision that came in the draft amending budget of the then Minister Urpilainen in 2013. This investment would not currently be made,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u75	Madam President! Mr Rehn, I have already asked Mr Stubb the same question: how do you convince even one investor that Winterfell will be able to make a profit in the future on market terms when the price of nickel is not rising, China is producing its own nickel-iron alloy, the mining industry is generally in recession, the history of Winterfell is harsh, there is no clarity about the functioning of the production process, there is no synchronization throughout this four-stage production process, all the main stages are practically in major difficulties, and in practice this is a very large startup company, a major risk that has gone wrong. Two Years — What Does It Bring? In two years' time, we will be in the same situation again, and the money of the state, taxpayers' money, will be a huge waste. Now it's time to whistle and finish this game.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u76	Mr President! I too would like to take part in this debate on the division of labour and mutual responsibilities between the state and business. Minister Rehn spoke on Winterfell. Today too, decisions have been taken or investments of EUR 112 million will be made to improve the conditions for its mining operations or to create conditions for 2000 people to keep their jobs. That's the role of the state. In the case of Turku Shipyard, the state participated in both ownership base, land purchase and innovation support. They were a key factor in the fact that the new shipyard was managed with the help of the new anchor owner to the state in which it is now. In this respect, the State played an important role in leverage. The same applies to the Äänekoski investment. Of course, the infrastructure projects, i.e. energy aid decisions, played a key role in making those investments there. In other words, the state can, in its own smart way, participate in the fact that business can function and create conditions for it. In this respect, I think that this division of labour is clear: the state creates the framework and conditions and supports its own policies in order to create employment and economic activity in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u77	Mr President! The Minister of Finance rightly said that the income angle in refugee policy and in the European migration crisis must be humanitarian. But I ask: is it the right humanitarian line that the government intends to reduce the number of quota refugees most in need in order to create more space for asylum seekers? Internal transfers of asylum seekers do not solve the problem of migration but, on the contrary, can exacerbate it because they increase the attractiveness of illegal immigration and, at the same time, continue to feed the organised crime of human smugglers. However, I find it very unfortunate that asylum seekers who have come along illegal routes in Finland's aid system, who have often been able to pay thousands of euros for their travels, are displaced by these most distressed quota refugees, as the government has planned, and in that sense I think it is bad that the government turned to that Commission proposal at yesterday's Council meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u78	We shall now proceed to the speeches that have been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u79	Mr President! Today we have already talked about this employment management and Winterfell, but I will come back to them from this toilet. On the basis of this debate, too, one cannot help but wonder at the inaction and passivity that the government has towards the management of employment. Instead of increasing investment in the management of employment, rising unemployment security expenditure will be settled. In this situation, there is a need for amending budget measures focusing on the management of employment. We must invest in the treatment of the cause, namely unemployment, and not just in the consequences of unemployment. In this situation, the responsible government would issue an amending budget focusing on unemployment, but unfortunately we do not have one at hand. The current situation is that new pay support periods cannot be granted and start-up money cannot be given all over Finland. People's unemployment is prolonged, the risk of exclusion is increasing, and the government is paying rising unemployment security expenditure. Municipalities are in trouble when they have to pay the state the so-called unemployment penalty for the long-term unemployed, i.e. the share of long-term unemployment in labour market support. The idea of the unemployment penalty is to activate municipalities in the management of employment, but municipalities alone are not able to do much to reduce unemployment, especially when new pay support periods cannot be granted. In addition to securing sufficient resources, it should be considered whether the division of responsibility and funding between municipalities and the state is currently working in this employment management. Preventing the growth of employment and long-term unemployment should be a top priority for the government. There is a need for an active approach and new thinking, and I would like to see the unemployment penalty money paid by municipalities to the state, for example, channelled back to the region, to the pay subsidy agency for employment. Now that long-term unemployment is increasing, these unemployment fines paid by municipalities are also increasing, and I would like to see transparency in this new transfer of money from one item to another. When the money earmarked for wage subsidies is exhausted, the fear is that worse activation measures will be introduced for the unemployed, such as misused work trials and periods of rehabilitative work, which, at worst, mean, for the unemployed, so to speak, doing the right job without pay, and I do not think it is right to force the unemployed into unpaid work. The government should therefore bring Parliament a proposal for an additional budget to increase the budget for employment management, as it is profitable for society to manage employment and employ wage support. Wages will replace unemployment benefit, which will be saved, and people will pay more taxes if they are employed. In addition, people’s life management generally improves, well-being increases and the risk of exclusion decreases. I therefore hope that we will be able to make sense and bring in an amending budget, and I hope that we in this Chamber will no longer have to deal with amending budgets which address this consequence, that is, the increase in unemployment security expenditure, but which could be tackled by reason of unemployment. We must remember that we are paying for these costs of unemployment on a number of different items, and the state finances would be fairly balanced if employment were to be controlled. Then a few words about Winterfell: We are now presenting 112 million more money for Winterfell's bankruptcy estate, and I must say that as a Member of Parliament, I am confused by how little information Parliament should provide with such a significant additional money. In my opinion, we should have an extensive information package on the situation of the bankruptcy estate so that we can assess the necessary follow-up measures and the need for additional funds. Of course, the key question is this: can the Talvivaara mine be made profitable without causing further environmental damage? Will the Talvivaara mine process be able to make it work within the framework of profitability without further damage to the environment? If the mining can be made to work profitably within the framework of the environmental framework, you should take the necessary steps and give an additional financial allocation. Huge investments have already been made in the mine and a large environmental area has suffered, so we must try to secure the continuation of the mine, if possible, and we must remember that Winterfell has a large employment impact in the Kainuu region. However, there is no point in constantly pumping more taxpayers' money into the mining company if there is no realistic prospect of making the production process work and supporting the company within the framework of the environmental framework. Continuous pumping of money into the company is a very expensive employment activity. I would like to ask the ministers present:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u80	Mr President! In my speech, I will only address one point in the draft amending budget, namely the immigration section, which proposes an increase of some EUR 20 million in the operational expenditure of the Finnish Immigration Service and the state reception centres and in the appropriations for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. Well, these increases are necessary, but the development is worrying, especially as the aim has been to save us money on these costs, and I think that the Finnish people in their election programme had also set savings of up to EUR 300 million on immigration management, which means that the direction is now quite different. The effectiveness of the immigration administration was considerably improved during the last parliamentary term. Various development measures over four years, i.e. from 2011 to 2015 have saved some EUR 16 million from reception costs, i.e. 20% savings. This was achieved by adapting the reception system for asylum seekers, reducing accommodation facilities and abolishing reception centres. In addition to speeding up the processing of asylum applications, the implementation of expulsion decisions was stepped up, i.e. last year, for example, the police implemented nearly 2,800 expulsion decisions, which is the most effective action in Europe. I hope that this current government will also remain in this line. One of the objectives of immigration during the previous government term, and now also in this new government programme, is this faster processing of asylum applications, and in the last period it was possible to shorten that treatment by 35%, or by almost 93 days, which was a very significant reduction in that processing period. Similarly, the transition to municipalities was smoother: the waiting period from reception centre to municipal migration decreased to 46 days, while in previous years the waiting period was almost double. It is now very important, Mr President, that the resources of the authorities should also be taken care of in these years to ensure that the results achieved during the last parliamentary term do not suffer but that this activity can continue to be stepped up. It is important both for these asylum seekers and then for the cost of society. I will come back to this situation, which I mentioned, when yesterday the Finnish Government, at the European Union's Home Affairs Council, took a majority position and did not oppose the project of resettlement of asylum seekers. I am surprised that the government’s immigration policy policy did not last even the first month, even though this was a central election theme for the Finns. Besides, I have been left unclear what that majority eventually was. Indeed, it has been reported in the foreign media that only 10 out of 28 countries would have supported the Commission's proposal for internal transfers, even though we were here arguing that the majority was behind it. Indeed, internal transfers of asylum seekers do not solve this problem of migration; rather, they can make it worse. Until now, Finnish governments and parliaments have consistently rejected the proposals to move these asylum seekers from one country to another. The key principle has been that each country should be responsible for asylum seekers entering its own territory, examining whether they are fulfilling refugee status. But instead, we in Finland have stressed the inclusion of quota refugees. After all, they are directly elected from refugee camps and are placed directly in municipalities and, for example, the safety reports on the contribution are already being carried out in the country of origin. Asylum seekers, on the other hand, will be placed in reception centres, which will also result in considerably higher costs for the state, and in practice, most of them in various European countries will be returned to their country of origin after this examination, when it is established that they do not meet the conditions for international protection. In other words, these asylum seekers are in a very different position — they are in a much better position in principle, they have been able to afford to go on these expensive, illegal routes organised by smugglers — than then the needy, vulnerable refugees in the refugee camps that we, as quota refugees, have taken. I do see it as a very immoral and bad option if the government really does go down to reducing the number of quota refugees when we are forced, as it were, to accept these asylum seekers as quotas. They cannot be equated with each other, and I think that this is where the government should stay in a tight line. I therefore appeal to Prime Minister Sipilä to straighten out the Finnish line once this matter is on the table of the Heads of State or Government this month. Mr President! I know from experience that the pressure on those Council meetings can be severe, but still Finland must maintain its own line, and it is also a good line for the whole of European refugee policy if we stress specifically that this quota refugee system is being developed strongly in all European countries but instead does not break the principle that every country in the European Union, every Schengen country, is responsible for the investigation of asylum seekers entering its territory and then, through the various agencies, the Commission's funds and expert assistance, is helping these countries to come up with these solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u81	Mr President! Indeed, in the course of this debate, there has been a well-founded issue that is now largely related to the speed with which action is being taken by the new government. Of course, I am referring here to the debate which took place extensively in that debat concerning employment appropriations. We all know the facts: they're all over. We all know that quite often, when these employment appropriations are evaluated and budgeted, it may happen that at some point they will be discovered that they are running out, and then it is quite common and necessary to react here and now. It is not unusual for money to run out, but it is extraordinary for nothing to be done in that situation. We were a little surprised in the Committee on Finance when we actually heard from an expert that the next amending budget was not coming until the beginning of November, in the last days of October. It'll be too late then. There are now young people out of work, and this situation should be able to react here and now. We cannot afford it now and we cannot — we are doing politics, this is a political parliament and the government — say that this is now a technical amending budget and that it is good and if the money is out, it is at most the fault of the previous government. It's not like that, for God's sake, this is how it can happen. It is important and good that we come to the committee very carefully to clean this up. I now appeal to the government parties that, if the government does not want to do so, there could be changes in this budget. However, the government has not even opened up this paragraph that the employment issue has apparently not been taken seriously. There was another matter here, directly related to the date of this amending budget, as Mr Heinäluoma asked, among other things, and that was the car tax. Timo, Deputy Prime Minister of the Finns Party In the run-up to the election, the soiree promised with quite a lot of showmanship. Well, of course, this promise did not come true, but now that the government has decided to reduce this car tax, of course, this kind of implementation, that we should start talking about step by step, is simply not the right thing to do. The car trade is standing, many car dealers have a great deal of concern for employment and how to deal with this situation, and it is therefore necessary that this policy should come soon and decisions are taken at once. That is what we Social Democrats are calling for and, of course, it was good to hear that Mr Stubb also spoke in that direction, but of course it would have been the right place to settle this issue would have been this additional economic assessment, and we were very surprised that it did not include this issue. In general, Mrs Harakka spoke well about these tax estimates and how she describes Finland. It tells us that we have assets, we have capital, even tax returns are increasing, and at the same time, among other things, VAT revenue is decreasing, which shows that people already have problems with purchasing power. Here, in all seriousness, I appeal once again to the government and also to the representatives of the government parties that it is humanly wrong for us to take the line that the poorest, the smallest, the weakest — families with children, the elderly, the pensioners, the unemployed — are put into practice through savings and cuts to pay for this difficult situation, to pay for it, to pay for it, to pay for it, to pay for it, and, at the same time, a policy is being taken to ensure that the good-off does not participate at all in this voluntary work. It is humanly wrong, it is unreasonable for these low incomes — there a few constitutional professors are already criticising the fact that fundamental rights are being trampled on by these weakest people, and this kind of criticism must be taken seriously by the way. This is not only humanely, but also because, when we are talking here today about an amending budget and hence economic policy, we now know that the wheels are not going to spin if people have a hole in their purses. People must have purchasing power, and it is the purchasing power of people with lower incomes that is at stake, and hence the welfare of the economy as a whole. I found an interesting article in the Financial Times yesterday. It reported on an IMF study which looked at the fact that if, for example, the richest fifth of income increases, the economy in general turns into a slight minus mark, and if the lowest income increases, it will have a positive impact on the whole of the economy. In my opinion, such things describe how, also in economic policy terms, this equation should begin to be dismantled. Then I found such advice in Sweden — often listening to this neighbouring country with a sensitive ear — that here the chief economist of the Swedish financial house says do not cut off now and that cuts in public finances and rising unemployment are further weakening the conditions for growing domestic demand. The debt itself is under control, and that is why this chief economist sends greetings that the new government should speed up consumption rather than cut it. I believe that this kind of thing should also be taken into account when we assess this economic policy whole in its entirety. Here's your love. I hope that the government will reconsider its own fiscal policies. I noticed from yesterday's Helsingin Sanomat that there were also party delegates and MPs in the centre concerned about these priorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u82	Mr President! As a result of the strong increase in the number of asylum seekers, this amending budget proposes an increase of just under EUR 20 million in reception expenditure. This is, of course, a significant increase, but it must be noted that in 2010 almost EUR 100 million was spent on this item, EUR 69 million was spent on 2012 and now, if approved by this amending budget, around EUR 63 million this year. In other words, clearly we have been able to constrain this issue and that is the right direction, but of course we must follow the situation, and it is undeniable that the number of arrivals has been on the increase this year. Here, in the left-wing opposition, it is often the idea that Finland would follow Swedish immigration policy, including in the case of refugees and asylum seekers. If we talk at the Finnish level about EUR 63 million in reception costs alone, when more than 80,000 asylum seekers came to Sweden last year, we can start to wonder what the costs of this would be for the Swedish State in terms of reception alone. In other words, there is a left-wing opposition that could give us a little more thought to what it really means. Mr Räsänen, who had already left the Chamber, called for the Finnish people's line on the Mediterranean issue, on the issue of illegal immigrants. Finland, as a government, is ready to deal with the Commission's proposal for internal transfers, but there are still a number of issues to be resolved. The final position on the text of the decision will come after the Council has closed the case. In other words, the big committee, where I myself sit, will have to deal with the matter. The True Finns ’ line is negative on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u83	Mr President! The Talvivaara entries in this amending budget are very positive. With this proposal, the government shows that it understands the environmental risks in this area. This also shows that the significance of Winterfell for the province of Kainuu as a whole is understood here. Although this proposal now also allows for the possibility that this mine may have to be closed in an alternative or situation, it is of course more reasonable that the Government's draft amending budget now seeks to find all possible solutions for the continuation of the mine. I hope that this additional funding will now really lead to solutions that are sustainable, both for the regional economy, for employment and for the environment. As is well known, Winterfell is also a very big problem. In a certain way, there are at least two questions about the fate of this mine — or, first of all, can this whole process work profitably? Of course, it is good to hear and understand that many experts really see that this process can be made profitable, but of course it requires at least two things, first of all to learn from the mistakes made in Winterfell, and especially from the fact that this process of dissolving production, that is to say, this process of separating metals, is, overall, significantly more efficient and better than it is at present. Of course, in all the options and situations, we must now start by taking account of these serious environmental problems and trying to deal with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u84	Honorable Mr. Speaker! I'm going to address Secretary Rehn. During that period, I tried to ask my questions for an answer as to how Winterfell would be able to make a profit in the future on a market-based basis. Neither Mr Stubb nor you gave me an answer to this, nor, in fact, from any of you at any time. We have three options: the zero option of doing nothing — this is of course not an option in practice — as the second option, this commercial solution, which has been discussed, and the third option, of preparing for the closure of the mine. I do not think that the second option is acceptable unless you can explain the answer to my question. In this context, the Board of Directors has taken a decision to capitalise EUR 112 million over the previous EUR 97 million. The previous conditional agreement was not fulfilled when private money was not received, and I do not believe that private money will be received over the next two years. As I said earlier, Wintervaara is a reverse money market, which has been pumped into, is constantly pumped and will also be pumped in the future with huge amounts of money without any guarantee that the company will be able to make a profit on market terms. In the commercial alternative, the State must prepare itself alone — alone — to capitalise the entire new mining company through Terrafame Oy and hope with its hands crossed that at some point a private company might be interested in investing in a new mining company. The business plan means two more years to continue this madness, after which the state would no longer commit itself to putting new money into it. As has been said many times, this whole game costs between EUR 11 and 12 million a month. That scepticism is precisely about why no new private money will be available for this. I hope that you refute these claims: you refute the claim that the price of nickel is not rising; you refute the claim that China does not produce any of its own nickel-iron alloys; you reverse the fact that the mining industry is not in any trouble; you reverse the terrible situation that characterises the history of Winterfell and that it does not appear to be so in the eyes of the investors; you reverse the fact that the entire production processes are fully functioning, that these four main stages of the production process have been synchronised with each other and that there are in itself no problems at all in these main stages. These are the things that private investors are looking at all the time. If you were a private investor, would you go invest in a company like this? This is the reason why I do not believe that two years of new gaming time would provide the desired solution. And I am afraid that in two years' time I will have to say: unfortunately I said this two years ago. And since I have not received any assurances, no one has refuted these arguments, I therefore hope that you will refute those arguments, Minister. That is why I believe that this third option is now a genuine and real option, unfortunately, very unfortunately. But that option, too, requires an additional head start, which I am prepared to do. But the goal must now be the end of Winterfell. It is a multi-year project, it is estimated to cost about EUR 300 million — but of course it will still have to be subject to a separate environmental permit, and it will set a new price in its entirety. I also know that mining, among other things, must be able to continue now, and I also hope for an answer as to whether we will continue to do so, because next winter will cause a huge problem with water on the ground again. My question, Mr President, to Mr Rehn: can you convince me, can you convince the investors by giving me at least some answers to the questions I have asked? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u85	Mr President! The government has emphasised that this is an additional technical budget. This is what we are prepared for here in good faith. It is good manners that the new government does not dissolve the decisions and commitments of the previous government but makes its own budget for its first full year of administration. All the more surprising was the fact that it was only this morning that the new government has made the additional technical budget a clear additional political budget. Unlike the information on the Ministry of Finance's website, which we have relied on in good faith, the government is already cutting EUR 37.7 million in development cooperation funds by this year's side — as if the cuts for the following years were not enough. So this is the first political budget of the new government. It is clear from what is not there: there is no concern about employment and the money earmarked for it, as Mrs Viitanen and many others have pointed out here; there is also what is there: total disregard for the lives of the most distressed people in the world, as Mr Razmyar has said beautifully. The funds from emissions trading, i.e. the funds raised before the start of the current government, are part of the financing of development cooperation. We do not know which development programmes are now stopping like a wall, what agreements and commitments Finland will slip away from, who will suffer and wonder at the selfish line of the new, brave Finland. This is not a technical amending budget but, from a global perspective, a tragic amending budget. What did they need that money for? It was sad to hear Minister Stubb's argument that the money taken from the world's poorest will be taken away in the government's own pocket if there is any need. This is a great insult. At the same time, the statement contradicted the responsible and wise analysis made just moments earlier by Minister Stubb: the refugee problem is a major crisis in the EU, for which Finland must contribute to constructive solutions. But with these sudden and brutal cuts, and with its program of national violence in general, the government loses the voice of Finland in the European Union and in the world. The government is turning its back on the world, and this is not only tragic but also harmful. Mr Elo has just shown a very limited understanding of immigration policy. Indeed, Sweden has considerably more immigrants than Finland, but the employment rate of immigrants is exactly the same as that of natives. At the same time, the employment rate in Sweden is 6 percentage points higher than in Finland. It is close to the goal set by the government, so it is tempting to urge the government to increase labour-related immigration strongly. I don't think it's impossible on this board of directors either. After all, the Finns have compromised all their principles to get to the government, so in probably four years' time, Mrs. Elo will be the first to build a great mosque with me in Vantaa. That's good. But it is clear that we have much to learn from Sweden about how immigrants feel welcome and how effectively they are involved in education and working life. We'd rather be part of the solution than part of the problem. Mr President! The amending budget also shows how selfish nationalism is also short-sighted economically. Let us look at the interest expenditure on the amending budget debt: it is EUR 173 million lower than expected. This is because the interest rate on sovereign loans has fallen and the economy has stabilised throughout the EU, and it is largely thanks to the European Central Bank, which launched a major sovereign loan purchase programme this spring, a long-awaited monetary stimulus. Unfortunately, the Finns have been completely wrong about this EU issue too. It is evident from the issue that the party raised — not in the same Chamber but in the right Chamber — on 4 February. It's only been four months. The President Mr Soini raised a great deal of noise about the flagrant breach of the Treaty, namely the ECB's purchase programme, which he unequivocally declared incompatible with the EU Treaty. However, a few days ago, the EU Court of Justice proved Soin's clarity to be wrong — the ECB had every right to try to save the European economy. On the middle of the issue, Soini made a calculation by the Board of Directors on how much funding of debt securities affects Finland. The answer is now here: EUR 173 million more money for your government’s treasury, dear Finnish sisters and brothers! Please, even if you really don't deserve this. Then Soini demanded of the government: Stop scheming and spraying. I don't think I'd dare ask Soin to do the same. I'm content to hope that he'll cut back on the swindle and the fog.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u86	At this point, Minister Rehn, take two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u87	Mr President! Representative Aalto, who has been forced to leave, asked how you would convince any investors. I think this is a well-founded question, but I would like to put a rhetorical but realistic counter-question: What factors have prevented private investors from committing themselves so far? At least three factors: First of all, the indebtedness of Talvivaara limited liability company and the lack of clarity about the corporate arrangement. This is supposed to be clarified during the summer, as I described. Secondly, the state of the environment and environmental permits, i.e. the construction of a demolition pipeline in Lake Nuasjärvi, is key to a commercial solution and to improving the state of the waters. The implementation of the permit will probably be clear in July, it will be in the hands of the administrative court of Vaasa, and we will of course give them peace of work. And the third factor is the price of nickel. It is difficult to predict, but this too is likely to rise in the medium term. So no one can give a sure answer, but these factors, when they can be resolved, will also be able to lay the foundation for a commercially sustainable solution. Mr. Speaker! I would also like to say that the start of mining in Winterfell serves both to find a commercially sustainable solution and to solve water and environmental problems, and that is why the government has contributed to this additional budget proposal. Similarly, closure is even more expensive than a commercial solution, it would cost EUR 300 million and it would take at least seven years. Mr Korhonen said that mistakes should be learned. It's true. Now we are in bad pants, and that is why it is a question of how to overcome water and environmental problems and how to find a sustainable solution for both the company and Kainuu regional economy and employment in a sensible, controlled and as fast as possible. This is the government's ambition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u88	Mr President! "Get in the field, get all hope thrown," reads Danten in the Divine play at the The Finnish economic debate often has the same features. There is only one truth, all the other choices are going to ruin, and that was slightly reflected in this speech by the Minister for Finance. Nevertheless, it was very positive that the Minister of Finance also raised in the debate the issues that have taken place on the investment side, some of the results of the work of the companies, some of them even the luckiest, others the leverage effect of the decisions of the previous government. What was strange, however, was that the Minister of Finance does not seem to believe in the state's ability to promote investment or to influence employment in general. You can't tell a job to be born, but you can create favourable conditions. This is what the government has done in Finavia, Äänekoski, the shipbuilding industry, and in fact, in this additional budget, the government is doing in Winterfell. There are two reasons: environmental saving, on the one hand, but employment on the other. Fortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs believed more in the impact of government action. The logic of the extra budget is strange. It increases money for passive unemployment benefit, but not for active employment, education, young people's Passi cards or start-up money for start-ups. This is a political choice. The Minister of Finance justified this logic by the fact that it is only a technical amending budget, not a political one. In my opinion, Mr Harakka, in his own speech, gave good reasons for the fact that this is not the only political choice; the second relates to the development funds and to the fact that the ETS link is being cut off. In other words, the government prefers to allow unemployed people to rely on unemployment benefit at home rather than on employment support at work. These two options spend about the same amount of money if we look at central government finances as a whole, not only take into account the subsidy money but also the tax revenues that will develop through this. An article in this logic only varies. I am well aware that the government has not yet had time to prepare new laws or new openings. However, it changes economic forecasts in the amending budget, which indicate that growth is weaker than anticipated last September and that unemployment is rising more than anticipated at the time. Against this change, the lack of more employment appropriations and the planned fifth cut in the future are perverse. The government plans a major cut in passive earnings-related unemployment benefit and has registered in its programme that more sanctions for unemployment benefit should be used. Apparently, the government is trying to save passive unemployment benefit through this. But I would like the government to study the doctoral dissertation on the impact of sanctions on employment and activation in carrying out these reforms. The result was surprising to me too: It tells me that on the earnings-related side, sanctions do not lead to activity, but rather to relocation outside the labour force. On the other hand, in the case of people who have long been unemployed, sanctions for labour market support lead to better activity, even though, in the case of people with long-term unemployment, income support is generally comparable in economic terms to that in the case of labour market support. Against this result too, it is strange not to take care of these very active funds but to let them end and people wait at home for the rest of the year on passive unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-17-ps-22.u89	Mr President! I'd like to pick up where Congressman Filatov left off. Here, in the context of the debate, blame was sought for running out of money, and I do not think that this should be the case. Now is not the time to find the guilty, but rather the time to find ways of getting more of this subsidised employment money. I did some research on the Ely Centres, and I can tell you that in Satakunta and North Ostrobothnia, these pay subsidies have run out, Ninety-three per cent of all money has been spent in Uusimaa, In Lapland 90 per cent, and at present hundreds and thousands of young people and those who have been unemployed for over 300 days, the long-term unemployed, are without a subsidy even if they can be assigned a job if there is a subsidy. In that sense, now that Minister Rehn has left, I would have liked the government to see that, if there is no extra money through the budget, then there will be additional money in the categories of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, so that we can get more of these pay subsidies and start-up money, because it is indeed a personal tragedy when a person is in unemployment even if he already has a job. At the same time as I am the last speaker, I would like to wish the Bureau well for Midsummer and also for the Secretary-General and other officials.
