ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Mrs Katja Taimela and others. on the question of the impact of the Government’s transport policy objectives on citizens and regional accessibility. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 17 November 2015. In the debate, Mr Katja Taimela, supported by Mr Wallin, has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u2	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of the reform of social welfare and health services and the formation of self-government areas. After the presentation by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button. The debate will be initiated by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u3	Madam President! The Government's aim is to resolve the most painful and major issues of this parliamentary term in the early years. Waiting doesn't help any more, and you can't let it go. The reform of social welfare and health services is the most important and the biggest reform of the government. They've been trying to do it for years with thin results. The government is taking this reform to the finish line. Social welfare reform is necessary to reduce health inequalities, manage expenditure and ensure quality and equal access to services throughout the country. Now the steps agreed by the government enable the objectives to be met. On 7 November, the Government reached an agreement on the regionalisation of social welfare reform and the solution to the reform of social welfare and health care. We agreed that in the future public administration would be organised on three levels: the State, the Autonomous Region and the Municipality. 18 self-government regions are established in Finland. The autonomous regions are based on the current regional division. All 18 self-government districts organise their social welfare and health services. Three autonomous regions organise social services in cooperation with another province by concluding a cooperation agreement. As a result, there are 15 regional entities in the social welfare and health services. The Åland Islands already operate on this basis. Mr President! The tasks of organising the war are transferred from almost 190 to 18 self-government regions. We are moving towards a streamlined European administration. Municipalities will continue to be the foundation of a welfare society. They can focus on the vitality and other services of their residents. Responsibility for the organisation of social welfare and health services will be transferred from municipalities and joint municipal boards to self-government areas on 1 January 2019. The autonomous regions are governed by elected councils. The financing of self-government regions is primarily prepared on the basis of the state's financial responsibility. In the context of the reform, the overall tax rate should not increase. The government decided on 20. 1 October on the guidelines for the reform of the financing of social welfare and health care. Further orientations will be made in April 2016. Mr President! In the future, Finland will have 12 comprehensive 24-hour emergency services with at least ten specialised emergency services. A smaller 24-hour emergency service for social welfare and health services is provided within the framework of other central hospitals. This means that there will be on-call services in different parts of the country around the clock in the future. It has now been discussed whether all other health centres and hospitals will be abolished. Of course we won't. In the future, we will need hospitals, health centres and services in addition to on-call hospitals. Mr President! The Government will increase the diversity of public social welfare and health care production, simplify the financing of services and increase freedom of choice. The Autonomous Community provides the necessary social and health services itself or in conjunction with other self-government regions, or can use services in the private or third sector. Self-governing regions must distinguish within their internal organisation the organisation of services from those of their own production. Professional managers direct their own production separately from decision-making on the organisation of social welfare and health care services. The comparability and systematic comparison of private and public services will be increased. The comparison shall be carried out by expert assessments carried out by the Joint Procurement Unit as an external expert. In publicly funded services, the costs and quality of the production of self-governing regions and other producers must be equally transparent on the basis of public information. As part of the reform, the user can choose more widely between public, private and third sector producers. Freedom of choice is the basic rule. In special social and health services, freedom of choice is introduced in the services for which it is suitable. Regulation (EU) No 1291/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing Horizon 2020 — the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020) and repealing Decision No 1982/2006/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Freedom of choice strengthens, in particular, basic services and ensures faster equal access to treatment. In order for the customer to have a real choice, the quality and cost information of the services must be transparently comparable. The aim of the reform is to control costs. The model of freedom of choice will be built in line with this objective. Freedom of choice is primarily implemented in order to improve access to services. Mr President! With the reform, the Government decides on the decision to organise social welfare and health care about every five years on the basis of proposals from the autonomous regions and negotiations with them. The organisation decision will implement the State’s obligation to ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and equal access to basic services. The decision to organise can direct resources and the network of services at national level in such a way as to reduce the sustainability gap in public finances by EUR 3 billion. Savings arise, for example, from stronger shoulders of organisers, better management, more rational use of personnel and facilities, specialisation and division of labour and better use of information technology. The order specifies the service promise. The Government decides on the roles and division of work of national and regional special units and university hospitals and other centres of expertise. The Government directs large-scale investments and production structure and ensures freedom of choice. The Government's policy on self-government regions and the reform of social and health services also offers the regions the opportunity to develop the best and most suitable solutions for their region. Finally, we can get the information going. We create compatible information systems. We strive to ensure complete integration of customer information and information that controls operations. In addition, a national central purchasing unit owned by the Autonomous Communities and other joint national support services provided by the Autonomous Communities will be established. The integrated information systems act as a glue for functional integration of human services. Social and health service providers can easily see what has been done and where. The new systems provide people with information about their situation. This will also have a significant economic impact. With this solution, we will create the conditions for cost increases to be clearly slower than the current forecasts. The objective is that expenditure will be EUR 3 billion lower at the end of 2029 than current forecasts. Madam President! We're going to make a historic reform. More than a hundred of the structures known as the administrative dims are decreasing in our country. We're running out of government, we're running from one door to the other, and we're finally trying to create smooth treatment chains. In addition to social welfare and health care, the self-government regions will be assigned the following tasks as of 1 January 2019: rescue services, missions of regional councils, regional development tasks of ely centres, and possibly environmental health care. We will decide more closely at the beginning of the year on the preparation of regional government reform and the implementation of mission transfers. We will also decide on the possible transfer of certain regional tasks to municipalities. The reform of social welfare and health care has a parliamentary monitoring group. Its task is to monitor the preparation, implementation and achievement of the objectives of the restructuring, financial reform and the freedom of choice study. The Monitoring Group may also give its views in support of preparation and implementation and in order to achieve the objectives of the reform. Mr President! Finland can no longer afford to act in such a way that we postpone politically difficult decisions and expect them to be resolved on their own. This has been happening for far too long. That is why I had to be sure that the guidelines that have been adopted now will also lead to implementation, so that the reform is progressing within the agreed timetable. The policies taken are in line with our government programme. They provide an excellent basis for the legislative preparation of the reform. The reform will come to Parliament after the consultation in the autumn of next year. The solution is sufficient to bring the most important reform of this parliamentary term to the end. Structures have now been agreed, but the work to create better and smoother services is at the beginning. I hope that the opposition will play a constructive role in this important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u4	Group statements will be initiated by the Parliament Group in the centre, Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u5	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, the Government and Parliament have three overarching tasks: improving employment through competitiveness measures, controlling public debt and, thirdly, reforming Finland so that we can secure services in the future. Social reform is part of this third category, but at the same time has a significant impact on the sustainability gap. People have justifiably been concerned about whether or not they will be able to get to a doctor in the future and how social and health care will work at all. At the same time, the cost of care and care has steadily increased. This reform has been prepared for years, in fact, during two parliamentary periods before this parliamentary term. All parties have been involved in this work, and concerns have arisen as to whether we are in a position to make such big decisions in Finland at all. It's done. It was a government task, and the decision taken is extremely important. This decision will have a knock-on effect on citizens' lives for decades from now on. Mr President! The central parliamentary group believes that this solution can be used to develop social and health services throughout Finland, both to safeguard people's local services and to save taxpayers' money and to get the costs under control. These have been the starting point for the whole reform in all these years. In particular, the Centre has wanted to see to it that we create a decision-making system that will also ensure that the savings sought are achieved. In this respect, this Decision fulfils these conditions. It is important in the decision that the State has a sufficient role to play in ensuring a proper, optimal division of labour between the various actors and, if necessary, being able to concentrate the most demanding treatments adequately. But it is also important for savings to be achieved that uniform solutions can be found in the development of expensive information technology, and the forthcoming financing decision must create a model in which, ultimately, the regulation of cash flows can also provide for the achievement of savings targets. In the further development of the reform as a whole, we should find a way in which regions that have already been able to achieve the best cost-effectiveness, with their examples, could be a guide and not move forward on the basis of the most expensive and inefficient regions. Mr President! The reform will be successful when in the future the doctor gets faster and the unnecessary bounce from one door to the other ends. If this is achieved, then these savings will also be achieved, and, on the other hand, if the reform itself succeeds, the result for the customers will also be what I said. We will receive unbroken treatment in Finland when the border fences between social services, primary health care and special care leave. We see joint service points for social services and basic health care that are easily accessible. Our group believes that social welfare and health centres must in future be secured by law as local services throughout Finland. The aim must be to organise the work of doctors in such a way as to increase the interest in the work of a health centre doctor and to ensure that doctors also work in a more remote social and health centre. Mr President! In this context, the future of our regional government was also resolved. Many have criticised why this was done. I think it is important to be honest with ourselves that, when such a major reform of the social and health measure is carried out, it will of course also have an impact on the way in which other administrative systems in the region are created. It was therefore justified that regional autonomy as a whole should be resolved in this context, and the central parliamentary group is extremely pleased that the government was able to do so. It is very good to continue the preparatory work on this both with regard to the social welfare sector and with regard to the development of this regional administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u6	Madam President! The Sote solution has been made. It is the basis for future work in order to put the care and service chains of citizens — patients, customers and rehabilitation workers in order. Prevention of disease at all stages of life must also be an important part of the future social welfare model, and prevention must also continue to be the task of future municipalities. Public health and well-being come from many different starting points. Work must be done to reduce health inequalities. We also have professional and skilled social and health care professionals and related research and training. In the future, care will be taken to ensure that the appropriate persons are in the right place at the right time and that there are enough of them. A good staff policy will be followed. Access to reform is a prerequisite for any success. The need for reform has been recognised for years. The efforts of the previous season gave a sign of step to this day. The opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last season showed the direction in which the social solution had to be taken. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group believes that this solution guarantees services, its financing and democratic decision-making. University hospitals continue to play a strong role in promoting research and competence. Mr President! The Finns of Finland have worked results-orientedly to create a sensible whole of social and health care. This new model of social services is close to the model that we presented last season, which combines social services with a broader model of governance than municipalities. This model serves the interests of citizens, both in terms of services and administration. However, municipal tasks can be gathered in self-government regions without calling into question the existence of municipalities. Regional government and social services will be coordinated. We believe that this model of government is close to the everyday lives of a citizen. Regional governance is visible where the citizens are. It is a challenging task at first and in the long term to reconcile regional government and social services. But these actors have common tasks, which are further developed to secure a democratic government, a Finland of the citizens, which has been built together, as stated in the Government Programme. Of course, social services are an important part of the tasks that leave municipalities, and the role of municipalities is changing. But even at international level, we have important tasks for municipalities. We will also continue to have municipalities that are strongly identified by our legislation. We Finns are not stopping or driving down municipalities. This social welfare solution is not a troll for the future of municipalities. Perhaps in the future, the tasks of the regional councils will be decided by the new self-government regions, and the development tasks of the regions will support the vitality of the municipalities. But alongside the governance model, there is a strong need to talk about the harmonisation of care and service chains. Here, too, social impact is sought. Social and health services will be better interlinked and there will be no more barriers to basic and specific services. Competences in different fields are combined to meet the needs of the customer. Administrative streamlining and new practices will allow savings of EUR 3 billion over 10 years. This is a realistic goal, and there is also research information about it, and there is also experience of the self-government model experiment in Kainuu. The reduction in costs is therefore based on the combination of activities. Resources can be used more efficiently, administrative costs will be reduced, and staff will be able to operate beyond existing borders. The local arms race and overcapacity will be reduced, the focus of the use of services will be on basic services, and information systems will be talking to each other in the future. Mr President! The Finns Party wants to foster the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises as a provider of social and health services. Freedom of choice is promoted in a way that ensures equality between citizens and enables savings to be achieved. It is quite clear that there is now a great deal of attention being paid to this great, great solution, there are also concerns, but now is the time for its debate, the time for guidelines. It's now. You shouldn't stay where you are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u7	Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Laitinen-Pesola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u8	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health care has set ambitious objectives: to ensure equal services for all, to meet people's real needs and to guarantee the quality of services when they are needed, as they are needed and for all those who need them. The key objectives are also to reduce health inequalities, new ways of producing services and saving all of us Finnish money by EUR 3 billion. The solution adopted, which will serve as a basis for further preparation, will provide the framework for achieving these objectives. The solution is not perfect, but by working together we can achieve the best possible for us Finns, after all we have built social and health care solutions in our country in the past. The social welfare and health care solution now made is the biggest change in our country. The solution is to combine social and health services into a single entity. The reform will bring social and health care service chains into the hands of the same organiser for special services that require basic standards. Nursing and health services are more seamlessly combined. The attention is given to the needs of people rather than to the boundaries of the systems. The reform will also reduce inequalities. From 2019 onwards, people will be on an equal footing, regardless of their income or labour market status, in choosing a private, public or third sector service provider. Under the current system, the well-off and well-paid have access to private services through health insurance or occupational health care. In practice, the low-income and unemployed have not had this opportunity. Through the new system of freedom of choice, everyone will be able to choose between public, private and third sector producers. Freedom of choice not only eliminates inequalities but also shortens queues and tightens both public and private services to a higher quality. In addition, freedom of choice is a better way than any regional solution to ensure the availability of local services in the future. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party wants Finland's own system of freedom of choice to reward quality, competence and innovation. We want a model where there is room for both one woman's businesses and organisations, for public knowledge, and also for care companies that build whole service chains, for example. We want all the resources at our disposal. Many different producers and the choices people make themselves make between them become a whole in which the winner is the person who needs services. Better services based on people's needs and more equal services will be created. We believe in human choices, not the system's omnipotence. We believe in people. Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers it important that staff in this field be involved at all stages of the reform. Of course, this reform requires strong national guidance, but it will only be successful if the staff in the sector are involved in the reform work. It is important to involve the staff and to ensure that they are able to exercise influence, because one of the objectives of the reform is to ensure the availability of trained professionals in the future. Without skilled professionals, the objective of the reform of better services will not be realised. This change, especially when it is so large and comprehensive, always creates uncertainty. The reform requires a lot of staff, but it also does. Thanks to the reform, social workers, local nurses, doctors, nurses and other professionals in their fields will be able to make full use of their expertise. In the future, a wider range of services with diverse expertise and expertise can be built. It is good to remember that it is not just a matter of access to a doctor, but in the future more and more other professionals in both health and social care will play a key role in providing timely assistance to customers. The Sote solution is not primarily about governance or structures, but about how citizens get services in the right place in a timely manner when they need them. For the assembly in reform, the most important thing is man.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u9	Mr President! Last week, a few days after the government crisis, a nurse came to me at the store to talk. He was angry. He said to me that he cannot understand how social reform is an ideological or power-political issue for some. He said that he imagined that the reform was about people's health and not about the power of the parties. How right he was. Mr President! The Sote reform is about the health of Finns and all of them. This is a project that is deeply changing Finnish society, and it is therefore regrettable that the first decision by the Sipilä Government was to move the opposition away from the preparation. A monitoring group has been set up, the role of which is indeed, Mr President, just to stand by and watch the changes in the government. The Prime Minister of the previous government, Katainen, must be acknowledged. He saw that the reform needed a spirit of cooperation across government-oppositional borders and a genuine opportunity to influence the opposition as well. Now this opportunity was not given. Why? We found out why a few weeks ago. The reason is that every government party had to get a party policy objective through this reform. And this is what the government did. At the risk of disbanding the government, Prime Minister Sipilä trampled through the central party's important provincial self-government. The Coalition Party received a market-driven health care system, and the Finns of Finland avoided new elections. The question remains: What did the patient receive? We have not received an answer to that. Mr President! What, then, was originally the aim of the reform? Reducing health and well-being inequalities, improving access to services and equality, curbing costs, improving effectiveness and ending bounces. Originally, the reform was about getting the right care, at the right time and at the right place. Will the original objectives of the reform be met? No one knows that. The government has promised a great deal. Prime Minister Sipilä has said: "Now is the solution that can withstand all scrutiny." The Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, has promised that in the future, no one in Finland will have to wait in line and saves billions of dollars. And all this from the beginning of 2019. Mr President! If the government brings in a proposal in which anyone can choose the basic health care or social services they want at any time, the queues will disappear, the quality will improve, the differences in health between people will decrease, and even the savings of 3 billion without undermining the services will be saved, the SDP will be prepared to support the government's proposal. There is the impression that, whatever the model or the number of regions, there are always 3 billion savings. It sounds fantastic, especially since there are 18 self-government areas in the model chosen by the government, as Mr Stubb has said, 15 social services, 12 large emergency hospitals, 5 university hospitals and 1 joint purchasing body. The question arises as to where the savings come from. Undersecretary of State Pöysti and the Government's memos say it directly: the aim of saving is to limit and reduce public care and services. What cuts will be left undone? What treatment will not be given? That is what the public is waiting for answers to. Mr President! The SDP is ready to cooperate in the reform of social security. Firstly, we support the idea of reducing the number of organisers. We support the fact that service production is based on a public base and that companies are complementary. The third objective: to dismantle queues using existing capacity; Mr President! The war is not a government reform, it is a nation reform. [President MariaLohela : Time to go!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u14	The next item is the Green Parliamentary Group, represented by Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u15	Mr President! Congressmans! When preparing the reform of the social economy, we must bear in mind its ultimate purpose: to reduce health inequalities and secure services regardless of wealth and place of residence. The most serious problem with our current system is its inequality. The reform must therefore ensure that equality of people, timely and accessible services are ensured for all citizens. Mr President! The view of the Green Parliamentary Group on the appropriate number of social areas is different from that of the Government. Why did the government not listen to the experts and propose a sufficiently broad population base for the social welfare regions to guarantee sufficient skills and resources for all the social services? It is good that there is now an open public debate on social reform. Citizens must have the opportunity to assess the arguments that are being made about the future of services that are vital to us all. The government model is good enough to start with. Mr President! As I have already said, reducing health inequalities is one of the key objectives of the social welfare reform. In order to achieve this, we must bear in mind the way in which this can be achieved. We have to stop pushing people around and transferring responsibility from one actor to another. We need to improve the seamlessness of care chains and the smooth flow of services, that is, integration. Those who need help must be treated in time, comprehensively. Cooperation between health care and social services, primary health care and special care must be played for the benefit of the person. Functioning service chains must ensure that no person is left in an intermediate state where information about him is not moving and no one is responsible for the overall well-being of the patient and his family. Mr President! Vamos ry, who is working with marginalised young people, has stated that the culture of sending away is often the reason for exclusion. Instead of facing a person and getting help in time, the one who needs help is bounced from one door to another. At worst, this is also a reality in health care in Finland. Responsibilities will be transferred until the conditions get worse, and in the worst case scenario, the patient will die of an illness that could have been cured if treated in good time. Mr President! The Government intends to increase freedom of choice in key health and social services. How this is done is precisely the most important issue in terms of the functioning of service chains and human encounters. The question of how to implement freedom of choice is the Achilles' heel of the government's social welfare model, which, when poorly implemented, can prevent the central objective of the social welfare reform, the reduction of differences in health and well-being. It is vital that greater freedom of choice does not jeopardise the functioning of service chains and the cooperation of different players or justify the loss of costs. Freedom of choice must also genuinely be about people's freedom of choice, the right or freedom of companies to choose what kind of patients or ills they care for and what kind of areas they care for — cities, remote areas, suburbs, multi-sickness or well-being. The use of private service providers must not undermine the position of disadvantaged people. Mr President! The Group of the Greens is of the opinion that high-quality public services form the basis for social and health services. These services may be supplemented by the private and third sectors, but public authorities have a responsibility to ensure that people receive the assistance and care they need. It is not possible to outsource this public responsibility in government. This is particularly the case for special care or demanding social care. Nor does it make sense to build private services that overlap with the heaviest and most expensive services. It would disintegrate expertise, weaken service chains According to its name, the reform of social services is also a reform of social services. Social services must not be left behind in health services. [President MariaLohela : 5 minutes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u18	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u19	Madam President! At the outset, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for hearing the common concern of the opposition and for bringing the reform of the social and health services to be discussed here today. This reform is so big and important that the government should listen with a sensitive ear to the questions and concerns that we are raising today. Let this debate serve as a referral to the government. Mr President! We all agree that such an important reform must be completed. In fact, the reform has been taking place for so long that services have been in very poor shape in some places. The municipalities have not dared to take steps to improve social or health services, when there has been no certainty as to the direction in which the reform will eventually take. People are waiting for weeks for health centres and social services, and this has to stop. The aim of the Left Alliance has been to get social welfare reform and three-tier administration to Finland: municipalities, regional government and the state. At every level, there must be a directly elected Parliament so that the decision-making process does not run too far. When considering the financing model, it is necessary to examine the tax law of the Autonomous Community. The reform is therefore not only about the reform of social security but also about the reform of regional administration and the redefinition of municipal activities. Strong regional government is a familiar model in most European countries. Mr President! The cornerstone of the government's social model is freedom of choice. The intention is obviously to create some version of the Swedish money follow-up model, but we still have not received an answer as to who will choose, where to choose and what to choose. Freedom of choice definitely sounds great. Who of us would not want to get sick in the morning when he wakes up to decide for himself where to seek treatment. We are in favour of people's freedom of choice, but we are critical of companies' freedom of choice. What guarantees that no more services will be available to the inhabitants of remote areas after the reform? Who takes overall responsibility for a person? That is why it is important to take into account the problems that have arisen as a result of the Swedish model in the construction of the Finnish model. In Sweden, money has followed a successful patient, i.e. services have focused on growth centres and areas where well-paid people live. Health inequalities have increased. One of the most important red threads of the Sote reform has always been to reduce health inequalities. Private health service companies also have a problem with their tax-paying practices. Currently, several large health service companies operating in Finland do not pay their taxes to Finland. If this continues, the privatisation of services will result in our tax money being poured into tax havens. Mr President! In addition to the open questions mentioned above, there are many other, really great issues in the reform that no one seems to know the answer to. Instead of political upheaval, we now need the services to prepare for the above. A very big open question is the financing model. In the long term, the objective must be a single channel of funding. The big issue is also the savings that the government is seeking for up to 3 billion dollars in reform. At the moment, the government has not been able to tell us where the savings are actually taken from. It is therefore likely that, in order to achieve the savings targets, we will have to reduce services or reduce the quality of services, both in the worst case scenario. Mr President! Another important issue is the organisation of social services. The majority of social work is official work, while health services will be transferred to private service providers. The danger in this model is that a sensible combination of social and health services will not succeed. The solution to this cooperation is still entirely open. There are also a lot of other issues to be resolved. What on-call services would be left in so-called satellite hospitals if full-service emergency services came only to social services? What hospitals do you have to give birth to? How to ensure regional equality in services? Mr President! Finally, the implementation of the reform will not stop this parliamentary term. The better the consensus on the reform, the better the chance it will materialise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u20	Irade fru talman! Under i den raussalen är säkert överens om att en vårdreform behövs. Vi behöver göra förändringar för att vi ska kunna garantera varje finländare jämlika öjligheter att få vård och omsorg. Det aur tycks ändå långt ha glömts bort i regeringens maxspel. Nu förefaller det som att regeringen anser att reformen måste göras enbart för att spara kostnader. Men reformen får inte utmynna i en sjukhusslakt och större ojämlikhet i tillgången på vård.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u21	Mr President! We have the best trained staff in the world in social and health services. The results of health care in Finland are state of the art in OECD countries, and we have traditionally been one of the leading countries in welfare comparisons. However, social health inequalities are the biggest and growing in the Nordic countries. Access to services is the most burdensome and often the most expensive for those who need them most. The cost of specialised medical care and remedial social services, such as child welfare, has increased rapidly, while the resources of basic services have stagnated. The fragmented administrative structure has led the municipalities and hospital districts responsible for organising the services to watch their own purses, and the government does not have sufficient means to channel resources so that people can get help in time and quickly and at the same time society can save money. With the current system of ageing populations and growing demand for services, there would be a collapse: the poor and the sick would be excluded from services. So it's time for the renovation. The government deserves recognition for the fact that a painful and difficult decision on social security was finally reached. The chosen governance model is not ideal and did not follow the primary advice of social and health care experts. The 18/15 model is a political switchover on which, however, future services can be built in such a way that, as the population ages and the need for services increases, vulnerable citizens are also taken care of. The number of responsible parties will decrease from 190 to 18, and central government control will be strengthened. Although the numbering game of the social war has received the greatest attention in the debate, the most essential aspect of the reform is not to reduce the administrative burden, since the administrative costs of the total cost of social services are only about 1.4%. On the other hand, the main potential for greater efficiency lies in the fact that services are managed under the same administration, thus making care chains smooth and shifting the focus of services to basic services and early intervention. Interoperable information systems, their innovative use and the national central purchasing unit and joint national support services offer great opportunities for more efficient and better services. The freedom of choice of the customer can help small local service providers to the extent that public procurement is no longer required on behalf of the customer. However, it is necessary to ensure that procurement in these growing administrative areas and in the national administrative unit ensures that domestic small businesses are able to cope with multinational companies that have taken over the market in the current system. Health services should be provided on the patient’s terms — specifically for human beings, not for the purposes of the system. We are used to waiting in line for a doctor, as was the case with stores in the Soviet Union. The queues do not save anyone money, but they increase expenses when the costs of sickness allowance and medical treatment are incurred while awaiting access to studies or surgery. However, queues are not a natural law if production is guided by the customer’s need. It is therefore positive that the reform will increase the patient's freedom of choice, which will guide the production of medical time as patients need it. The customer's flexible choice must also be implemented between regions. Persons living in a border area or working in another region must be able to choose a care unit for their services or working area. Freedom of choice and healthy competition can improve the quality of services and dismantle queues. The effects of the social welfare reform extend beyond the parliamentary term, for decades to come. We are faced with major, unresolved issues of financing, ownership arrangements, wage harmonisation, hospital network, intermediate administration, close democracy and the adaptation of fundamental rights. That is why there is a need for a good spirit of solidarity, cooperation across the government and opposition lines, so that the decision-making process does not go with the current political wind. Mr President! The Christian Democrats make their own constructive contribution to finding solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u22	Next, Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes from this podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u23	Madam President! Thank you for your constructive contributions. This big picture was raised in the speech in the centre. This is about balancing public finances, this is about improving employment and, above all, it is our job here to fill the 4 billion sustainability gap with these major reforms, in which this social reform plays a key role. Concerns about the position of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), small entrepreneurs, were raised in the speech of the Finns-based group. That is what we have dealt with many times during this process. We want those small businesses, often alone, to remain an important part of the service chain. The contribution of the Assembly raised the involvement of staff in the further preparation of this reform. This is a very important point of view. This is certainly not a question of administration, but of improving services. The speech by the Social Democrats focused on power policy. That is certainly not what this is about. Maybe it's more about the artist's attitude than about the real situation. I met the chairmen of the parliamentary parties twice before the decision was taken. On the second occasion, a financing solution was discussed. We all agreed with the Presidents that local government funding will be cut off and we will go ahead with state funding as the number one, but we will also look into the financing of autonomous regions. That is what we agreed on and that is what we decided. Then we discussed the number of regions. Figures 5, 9, 12, 18, 19 came in, and one party did not want to take a stand before the government presented the entire amount. This shows that this will only have to be decided at some point. According to experts, whether regions 12 or 15 were no longer relevant to the cost impact and the sustainability gap. But it does have a lot of impact on other things. This is a continuum for what started last season. I would like to thank the Greens for their constructive contribution. This is a question of reducing people's differences in well-being and of our ability to keep our promises of well-being. And freedom of choice is precisely human freedom of choice. I would also like to thank the Left Alliance for its contribution, which is very constructive. We build a Finnish freedom of choice model and take into account Sweden's bad experiences in building it. To the concerns of the RKP on the continuation of hospitals: Perhaps Minister Rehula will return to this. We need a division of labour between hospitals. The work is just getting started. In the opinion of the civil service administration, sufficient guidance has now been put in place for the development of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u24	Let's go to the debat. I would ask those representatives who wish to take part in the debate to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u25	Mr President! I think that this debate has highlighted the differences between the parties over the years, but at the same time the fact that these positions have, however, become quite close to one another. However, these differences in this debate are marginal in relation to the starting point. I do not think that we need to look back in any way to see why, since 2005, we have not been able to do this in the various governments. That work has gradually refined it into this solution. I do not agree with everything yet, and I do not agree with that section of the SDP, which was decided by Mr Lindtman, in which he said that you should return the reform to parliamentary preparation. That is not how much a return will be made, but I am sure that the parliamentary monitoring group will now be able to do so. There is still a huge amount of work ahead of us. As far as freedom of choice is concerned, there will be criticism. That freedom of choice must, of course, also be seen as a means of making savings. Freedom of choice cannot be exercised unless it remains in these economic framework conditions. There is also the good side to freedom of choice for all organisations that it will also tighten up the various parties involved. It must also be seen as an opportunity to achieve the major objectives of this reform. Mr Pekonen asked where the savings came from and thought that we should reduce and perhaps cut down. We have 15 years to achieve the relative savings of 3 billion that will be achieved here. Yes, we must be confident that savings will be made when we reduce bounce, manage at the right level, have uniform treatment chains. There are no matter how many examples people have of this from their own experience, how we could save if we had been able to do the right thing right now, and I hope that this new integrated model will give us a good chance. Period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u26	Madam President! Surely it is only natural for a lot of questions to be asked here now, when we are just at the bottom of that big basic solution and there is no way of knowing the details, and certainly they cannot be dealt with here. But it is a good thing that the starting point is here and that the solution has been made. There is also recognition of the fact that the current situation, the joint municipal authorities, has run away from the decision-making process of the municipalities, both in terms of costs and control, and this now offers a completely new, more democratic solution and this regional government. I am surprised now that the experts have not been listened to. I have information here on my desk for the last period, which I am sure is also known to you, Mr SDP, when you have held government negotiations, at least according to the information publicly available. I'm sure that research has been done. This regional model has certainly been presented as the basis for government negotiations in the past, but it has been different over the last period, and certainly there is no need for return in that framework either. But that's the best part. In other words, if this is precisely where it is possible to dismantle the separation of basic health care and special care, to help the social and health care customer surfaces, those customers, patients who really need both services, then I am happy about it. And I would like to thank you for those speeches that have specifically raised the issue of streamlining care and service chains for the benefit of all of us citizens. Finally, I think that in many speeches we have also paid a great deal of attention to the fact that health is certainly not only produced there in the social and health services, but that our well-being is also built in the municipalities where we live and our families are based.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u27	Mr President! I would like to draw attention once again to this particular debate on the fact that it is easy for this to focus on this health side. It is obviously somehow easier for us to understand, and it is such a big one that will distract it, but I hope that in the future this preparation will actually take into account the fact that it is a social and health solution. Minister Ruhula has done this with merit — I have had the opportunity to hear him on two days — and I hope that it will be made public. But what I would also like to say is that I would like to stress that, for example, these flexible service chains or, indeed, the fact that we would be able to tackle this sustainability gap will not succeed if we talk only about access to a doctor. In this respect, the expertise of the entire trained staff must be widely used and these divisions of labour should be used. We already have good examples of well-functioning services that include, for example, heart nurses, asthma nurses and others, that is, this particular expertise and that patients, customers, get the right treatment in the right place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u28	Mr President! Now that we have listened to these speeches, we come to the conclusion that everyone has a common understanding of these objectives, that is, at least if I have understood that the aim is to reduce the bounce, if that is the case, precisely by obtaining large-scale entities and improving the care chain. Reducing health inequalities between people — that is what was most important. And the cost is saved by getting more impressive services, so that the treatment is provided at the right time, not that when a person goes to a health centre, first queued, then sent to a hospital, back through the lab, and then discovered that it was a mental illness, social services or mental health services are needed. When this whole thing is in hand, it has strong control, then more effective services are created, better services are provided to people and savings are generated. Now I ask the government that, if these objectives are still at the bottom, what do you respond to the criticisms of the experts who have been concerned that now that you incorporate this market model, then in fact the benefits of this integration, better service chains, will not be achieved. Prime Minister, I asked you whether you were prepared to involve the opposition genuinely, to give it a chance to make a difference. We are prepared to cooperate constructively, we are prepared to accept that there are fewer regions. Strengthening public services, complementing business, third sector services and using existing capacity to dismantle queues. Make a clear governance model with the same number of social and self-government areas. I asked a clear question: are you prepared to restore this reform to parliamentary scrutiny?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u29	Mr President! As I said, this government reform of social services, this proposal, includes an Achilles heel, and that is precisely the increase in freedom of choice that can be implemented either well or badly. One of the things that I did not have time to say in our group speech is also the fear that large international health companies, which are also tax-absorbing, could hijack services for themselves and buy small businesses and take over the market in this way, which in turn would probably lead to price increases and then to equality not being achieved in the way that we Greens want it to happen. You have said, Prime Minister, that the government intends to prevent large international companies from hijacking social and health services financed by Finnish tax resources, and we would be very happy in the Green Parliamentary Group if you could illustrate how:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u30	Madam President! In this respect, Mr Vanhanen has to be answered to the extent that, when the report says that services will be limited in the future and the promise of services will be more limited, it will of course cause concern here in the opposition that services will be reduced and the quality of services will be reduced in order to achieve these savings targets. Of course, it is great that you have this savings target of EUR 3 billion, but I believe that at the moment it is based on a fervent wish. I would also like to express my support here for Mrs Lindtman that I think it would be good to prepare this reform of the social economy in a parliamentary manner. Now that it seems to be going so well and we all share a common goal and will for the social reform to be brought to fruition as quickly as possible, I think that the government should now involve the opposition in the further preparation of the reform, so that we can make progress on this big issue in the coming parliamentary term. We all know that this is an issue that does not move so fast and also requires a lot of preparation after 2019. But, President, I would have asked about the role of the municipalities, about the future of the municipalities. It was said here that municipalities will continue to be the foundation of a welfare society and that municipalities will be responsible for prevention. But how do we manage the financing of prevention, what are the potential incentives for prevention in municipalities? Is it just the primary school that keeps the treatment of prevention? We all know that the prevention of disease is not only humane but also cost-effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u31	Värderade fru talman! Jag tror att vi alla är överens om att vi behöver en vårdreform. Vi brode också under reserve överens om att alla ska ha en jämlik öjlighet till vård. Och det är ochså därför som vi i svenska riksdagsgrupen nu är oroliga för regeringens linjedragning att ha 12, 15 och 18 oika områden, där de rai 12 uppenbart är de säder där man får den mest högt specialiserade vården i framtiden, där inte alla sätts på samma linje när man drar upp linjedragningarna nu för hur det ska se ut i frartiden. Så min fråga till regeringen är: När kommer man att fastslå områdenas gränser, och kommer man att göra språkliga consekvensbedömningar så att man kan trygga att alla medborgare, Oberoende av modersmål har till högt kvalitativ vård?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u32	Madam President! I believe that this debate shows that Parliament has surprisingly strong support for the social solution that has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u35	Let us move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u36	Mr President! After that speech by Mr Räsänen, I certainly stayed to think of the help and the power of heaven if this war were to start again. It is excellent that the government has now come up with political guidelines on this, and important elements have already been heard in the group speeches to date: precisely this public promise of service in the background of all this, as if confidence in what you can trust as a taxpayer and as a citizen, what the welfare society offers. But one aspect I want to highlight here is that of patients and customers. This week I have met both family carers and young people who have gone through child protection, and I must say that we all certainly have lessons to learn from the fact that, in this preparation and in the midst of the structural and financial speech, we would stop to hear the people affected by this reform. They have a lot of feedback and development, and now we should have the wisdom to pick up these 15 areas
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u37	Mr President! Indeed, we currently have more than 180 organisers in social welfare and health care, all of which are based on co-operation areas or joint municipal boards, both in primary health care and in special care. In practice, in many places, local authorities do not know who is in charge of these matters and there are no elections. This reform will create a democratic system of government for both primary health care and special medical care, while at the same time removing the argument for making unnecessary, shrewd municipal alliances, which, in the last parliamentary term, is now being encouraged by the government of that time and, if you could say so, in many places. Now there is no need for these, and there is a clear message from here to the municipalities that we are now focusing on the issue of war, and from the point of view of democracy, your voting power is improving. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u38	Mr President! It always wonders whether we made a good decision or a bad decision and what risks are involved and how to avoid them. As a result, this model offers a lot of opportunities. Firstly, the availability and accessibility of services can be improved by increasing access to operators. Increasing customer choice: There has been a call for a social services perspective. Take an example from a youth in need of child welfare. Why not give him freedom of choice to choose his home, his family home? Why does an official make that decision for him there? The second issue is the sustainability of public finances and the mitigation of cost increases. At this point, this model makes it possible, but at the same time it also raises the question: how do we avoid these cost risks there? In this regard, I hope that particular attention will be paid to these cost risks and to avoiding them. Reducing fragmentation and partial optimization — all of these will be achieved here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u39	Mr President! The savings target set by the government, EUR 3 billion, is equal to three times the budget of the Pirkanmaa Hospital District. According to officials, the studies have shown that the savings target will now not only be achieved by smoothing out treatment processes and improving productivity, but should also reduce services and the hospital network, and should also be prioritised. We are talking about a service promise, so in the government's own material. Many professionals and citizens ask: So where do we get our priorities from now on? Which services will go away? Secondly, Finland has the highest service charges in the Nordic countries, and they are now being strongly raised by the government. Are we now in Finland creating a model where only a small part of the services are secured with a service promise and the patient will then have to pay for his own bag at the end of this, or the wealthy will take out insurance for the rest? This is what we want here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u40	Mr President! The tone of the debate has been very good in the Chamber, and I hope that the government and the opposition will now, together, focus on a solution-oriented approach. Finns deserve a proper reform of social welfare and health care, which will then last for decades, which can be trusted, and where together we can openly resolve the problems and concerns that inevitably arise in the minds of the people, in the minds of the staff in the sector and also in the minds of experts. Let's go solve them together now and make the best possible result. There are a few points that need particular attention. One is this integration and the role of social services and then the relationship with the municipalities, i.e. what tasks remain in the municipalities. Youth work continues to be an important part of municipal work. What will be the touch of youth work and social work? This is where we need to involve the staff and professionals in the field to think about how to do this in practice. There's something new going on here. And the other is in the freedom of choice to ensure that freedom of choice can be achieved
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u41	Madam President! We already know that private health services companies use our tax resources to roll profits and transfer them to tax havens. The same development is emerging on the side of social services companies. Larger groups buy companies from small entrepreneurs and make larger entities. And quite rightly, the Prime Minister has been concerned that large international companies can come and hijack our tax-funded social and health services. You promised that this would be the subject of legislation. Now I would like to ask Mr Stubb: how do you prevent tax haven companies from coming into this new model and transferring our social and health resources to tax havens? The second question relates to the status of staff. When it comes to competitive tendering, municipalities can no longer produce what happens to staff: local nurses, nurses, midwives? What is the status of the staff in a situation where competitive tendering is lost?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u42	Fru Talman! Det är bra att den ox reformen har tagit ett steg framåt, men ännu finns det en hel del frågor. Jag skulle ox focusera på den Svenskspråkiga service. Också när man går in för valfrihet, vilket är bra, så måste det är beaktas, så att det säkert finns serviceproducenter som kan ge Svenskspråkig service. Det ox ansvaret ligger nu på de raus självstyrande områdena.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u43	Madam President! Finally, the government reached a strategic direction on a matter that has been taken over by several governments and working groups without a solution seen to be good. Thank you for making the decision. Another good thing is to make freedom of choice possible, although on the other hand it also raises outstanding questions. For example, will doctors and medical staff continue to be allowed to operate on both public and private sides? And if that is the case, I would like to ask: does it meet the criteria of a free market economy? And if this were to be done, for example, by allowing public-sector real estate and equipment to be used effectively for private use by public-sector doctors, for example in the evenings, will current rental prices be charged, or will it perhaps be granted free of charge? If so, is it fair competition from a competitive point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u44	Next up, ministers Rehula and Vehviläinen. First Minister Ruhula, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u45	Madam President! Until now, we have had a common view of reducing the crowding-out of people in the jungle of social and health services. That's the goal. We have a goal to improve the situation, reduce health inequalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u48	Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes, and then we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u49	Mr President! This is Mr Pekonen and Mr Pekonen. Niinistö asked about this connection in social welfare and health care areas and then in municipalities. It must be very careful that this connection remains. Firstly, I would say that in future the municipalities will have a role to play in promoting well-being and health. Of course, we are also reforming the system of state aids in this context. This has not yet been outlined. But I think it would be a good idea to examine here whether it is possible to put in place an incentive in the system of central government transfers to reward those municipalities that are successful in promoting health and well-being. It is not quite simple, but it must be our common aim here. Furthermore, Mr Niinistö, you said about this youth work. Early childhood education, all these services, what is there — we must ensure that this connection is maintained. We need to do more work in this further development. The second point relates to these parliamentary cooperation issues. It is important that this social reform should include this parliamentary observatory. There's plenty of work to do, even if we don't start over. That's just the way it is. In this context, there are also other reforms in the preparation process. It is this municipal reform of the future which is becoming for you, as soon as I can only achieve it, a request for a parliamentary working party. In other words, together we will consider what that municipality of the future is and in that context we will be able to determine across party boundaries also the relationship between the municipality of the future and the autonomous regions. Then there is this reform of the regional administration, which is to say which tasks are also being assigned to the autonomous regions. My personal view here is that it would be good for us to be able to extend this parliamentary cooperation to this reform of regional administration as well. At least I think that, when there are major reforms in hand, we need to go across party boundaries to find solutions so that these reforms and administrative reforms will then be able to carry them far into the future, that they will not be done for just a few years at a time. Mr President! In this context, I would like to say a few more words about these autonomous regions. Fortunately, we also have Article 121 of the Constitution as to what self-government regions are. On that basis, we will be able to make this decision by going into this three-step European democratic model. We have a local level of government, we have a regional government, we have a democratically implemented provincial government, and then we have a third state and we here in Parliament. In this work, we will have plenty of common practice for the months to come and for this entire parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u50	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u51	Mr President! The average citizen is interested in how to actually get these services near here or how high-quality they are. An ordinary citizen is interested in what this costs. And an ordinary citizen is interested in how this is financed. By continuing parliamentary preparation, the SDP means trying to find common ground in these matters from now on, in cooperation with the target, as we did during the last parliamentary term, and seeking sensible solutions. In particular, we have suggested that funding, which is a very large entity — the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, Matti Vanhanen, said that the biggest tax reform in history is taking place — we want to be involved. Real estate, the mass of real estate, their transfer funding, the status of staff are matters in which it certainly makes sense for everyone to be able to make decisions that go beyond the parliamentary term in such a way that they can then be defended together in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u52	Madam President! The government will present any model, the government should remember that our social and health care staff will implement this model. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have just said that staff should be involved in this reform. Unfortunately, however, you have targeted various measures, forced laws that undermine the commitment of the workers in the sector, the motivation to implement the reform. You are also proposing a number of laws that undermine the well-being, well-being, livelihoods, holiday rights and reconciliation of working life and family life of social and health workers. There is a total contradiction here, Prime Minister. I would ask you again: what are your measures to improve the well-being, motivation and encourage workers in the sector to carry out social and health care reform while at the same time implementing your objectives of EUR 2 to EUR 3 billion?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u53	Mr President! We must give a strong recognition to the government that a viable solution has been reached. This solution follows the basic route outlined by the Constitutional Committee during the last parliamentary term on the basis of a proposal which was then under discussion, on which there was a reasonable consensus. It is now important for this reform to move forward. Now we've laid the stone foot on which we're going to build. Now, in this debate, we are asking for the details that we are working on here in principle. Let's be together in this construction. I listened to these statements by the opposition and was somewhat saddened by the SDP. Yes, it is the way we can have our own opinions, but we do not have our own facts. The thing is that we have to build this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u54	Madam Speaker! This 18-region model is acceptable in that the inhabitants of the region now have direct control over who decides their affairs and hopefully also have control over what the tax money is spent on. Prime Minister, you have just said that Sweden's mistakes are not repeated, and that is a good thing, because the Swedish National Audit Office stated that in Sweden this so-called freedom of choice has weakened equal access to health services. There are no social services linked to them, but it is the health services that have resulted in a large number of health centres in the well-being areas, a large number of doctors there, but in those areas where there are fewer wealthy people and where more doctors are needed, there are fewer doctors, there are fewer health centres and there are fewer doctors there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u55	Madam President! First, a little information for Prime Minister Sipilä. In Sweden, social integration has not taken place in the same way as planned in Finland. Secondly, the question of principle, which I want to know, is that now that the freedom of choice legislation is being implemented, whether private companies will be genuinely private companies. First of all, it means that private health services must function and manage without public tax resources. Secondly, they must not generate hidden costs for the public sector. Three: they must be responsible for their own mistakes. Four: the competitive advantage of private health services must not consist of tax evasion, reduced health insurance contributions or the proposed reduction of private employers' contributions. And five: the public sector must always be responsible for all key service needs that private individuals must not become equal in terms of price increases and welfare services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u56	Madam President! For the ordinary citizen, the most interesting thing about this mess is whether I can get to the doctor, how long I have to wait. For too long we have had a situation in Finland that queues are unreasonable. Last Friday I took my friend here in Uusimaa to the hospital when he broke his leg, and he waited 4.5 hours to see a doctor, and this time is still short, namely there are longer times. I believe that in this mess we must go ahead of patient safety and aim for us to succeed and indeed to be able to reduce the damage to patients. Is this not also the will of the government and of this reform, that every person should receive treatment in a timely and timely manner, and that treatment should reach its right destination as soon and immediately as possible? To reduce this human suffering and physical suffering, a person needs to get to a doctor in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u57	Mr President! Surely we all agree that this important reform must finally be achieved. Last season we have already received a joint proposal for Parliament, which has certainly been of help to the government in making this decision. But you don't have to take the performances on any terms. Surely there would be a little less of these issues for the government if this joint parliamentary preparation could also have continued during this parliamentary term. President! However, the most important aspect of this reform, the seamlessness of the service chains, threatens to be overshadowed by the numbering of these regions, and I was sorry that the Prime Minister did not mention this issue when he spoke about savings. It is this integration that will also bring those savings in the best possible way. But how will the seamlessness of these chains be ensured? Now there's a threat of more hatches coming in. In what way can it be ensured that this market model does not drain our tax euros in an opaque way into the profits of private companies? How to ensure that the organiser:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u58	Mr President! What matters now is that this reform is being brought forward and has taken an important step when the government has adopted a strategic approach. It is a good thing that the opposition's speeches here in general have also been constructive. As far as Mr Lindtman's speech is concerned, it was a good thing that he specifically mentioned that they were prepared to cooperate when it was not apparent from the speech itself. But from the user’s point of view, the most important thing is that you can choose from more options in basic health care, you can choose a public option, you can choose a small private, domestic, multinational, you can choose a third sector, and the user will certainly choose it from the point of view he feels best, and regardless of the thickness of the money bag, you can choose this choice. As far as more demanding care is concerned, it will certainly focus on fewer places, but at the same time it will be confirmed that there is a very high level of competence which will give citizens access to the quality of service,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u59	Mr President! The purpose of this debate was probably to dispel the wrong impressions, but I am terrified now. I understand, for example... - Listen, I'll tell you why. — I understand that freedom of choice is used when seeking time for a dentist or going to physical therapy, but Mrs Lauslahti declares here that there will now be freedom of choice for children in child welfare. I can't believe it. In other words, children will have to take responsibility for their own choices in the future. No, it can't be, it can't be. Tell me there was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u60	Mr President! Question. Take a young person between the ages of 14 and 15 who has been sought out by an official. Why don't we think of him as independent? I'm sure he's got a vision of what's best for him. That does not mean that he has to go looking for that place, but is offered some places he can choose from, and they are already checked that they are from his point of view the best options.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u62	Now, Finance Minister Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u63	Madam President! After all, the objective of the social security reform was three things: better services, savings of EUR 3 billion and non-taxation, and I will focus on the last two. The first relates to savings, and there have been a lot of good speeches around this. We in the government have seen this in such a way that savings do not come through freedom of choice. Freedom of choice means more equality, better quality and shorter queues. But the savings come in fact through five points: 1) state control, i.e. organising decision, joint purchasing unit, ict and support services, 2) wider shoulders of the organiser, where, as Mrs Huovinen said there, the integration of care chains is one of those entities, 3) extensive service on call, 4) separation of the organiser and producer, and 5) increased competition. This is the one that represents its savings of EUR 3 billion over 15 years in proportion to today. The second question, which is of course central, is that we will still have to prepare the details in terms of funding, freedom of choice and, of course, self-governing regions. But as far as funding is concerned, we have two guiding ideas on this. The first is that, and we insist on that, the savings of EUR 3 billion will come to fruition, and the second is that taxation will not increase. In principle, this will be done by making the financing decision primarily on the basis of the state's financial responsibility, and then, as the Prime Minister said, we will look into the right to taxation in the self-governing regions. And this is where we will send our own presentation to the statements in the early spring of 2016. Finally, perhaps tax evasion and Mr Arhinmäki's question. The starting point for freedom of choice, from which I am sure this question of yours will certainly be the three things: Firstly, it will increase equality, and I think we all agree on this. The second is that it improves services. That, in my opinion, is a good objective. And the third is that it shortens the queues. We have talked a lot about the fact that when we are building the freedom of choice model, we are building the Finnish model, as Minister Ruhula said there, not the Swedish model. However, as far as the Swedish model is concerned, it resulted in some 800 small and medium-sized enterprises, most of which were women-winners. We assume that a person chooses that service, and I believe that a person does not go out in competition with large private companies on that side, but sees what is the best service provider. And then I come to your question, Mr Huovinen. A direct answer to your question: under no circumstances will we have sympathy for companies that are fleeing taxation in Finland, under no circumstances. That is why we have a strategy to combat the shadow economy, which is why we have an exchange of tax information. And the last thing to say about this is that when you mess up, it's actually working.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u64	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Sipilä for the fact that you are on the line of the Left Alliance. Finns' health must not be a trade-off for companies that circumvent international taxes. We have to acknowledge that. To Mr Lauslahti, and indeed to this end: I do not know how it will be done when we are in the EU, that this neutrality of competition could be achieved so that these cannot enter the market here, but Mr Satonen and Mr Lauslahti pointed out and stressed this involvement of international companies here. But, in particular, Mr Lauslahti, do you really think that a 14-year-old who, in his own family, in his social sphere of the surrounding environment, is placed somewhere, could choose a neighbour as his investment location, when that social environment in that neighbourhood is precisely the problem? That would mean that the comatose patient gets the majority from the point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u65	Mr President! For me, the big picture of this reform is that in a few years' time we could actually talk about national health and social care policies. Example: I know the Finnish education system thoroughly. It is appreciated and admired all over the world. We have insisted that we have a national education policy, equality, quality and good. Chains work from early childhood education to university. I would like to see that in a few years' time, our health and social policies can also be referred to as national policies. That is why I think it is important for you, ministers, now to talk about the need for strong government control. It has also been a guarantee in the excellent national education policy and its results,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u66	Mr President! Despite all the unfinished business, it is a great thing that we have come to this situation. There's a lot more to do. Now the work is just beginning, yet the atmosphere seems bold, encouraging. There seems to be a lot of consensus in this Chamber. However, it has been regrettable that, along the way, the focus of the social dialogue has been on the second part, perhaps too much on the part of health care. It is understood because volumes are of that kind, but the social side should not be forgotten. Since Heikki Varis, Pekka Kuusen, we have been taught that well-managed social policy equalises health inequalities and increases social cohesion, and now
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u67	Mr President! I agree that social policy should now be remembered in its entirety. We need to remember So, not just you. I also believe that savings can actually be achieved through new methods of operation and allocation of resources correctly. I have told you before that all mental health organisations interviewed in this country, for example, and they told me that there are resources, but they are placed in the wrong places. I claim that this service system saves a lot of money by actually investing in the right places in this system. It is not automatically right today, and mental health services are one good example. Then I would like to raise the issue of expertise. If we really want a citizen, a customer's perspective on good social and health services, we should also listen to experienced experts. They're all in every species, and they're worth listening to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u68	Mr President! As part of this social reform, a new large procurement unit is being set up, which, on the basis of the plan, seems to be common and national to the autonomous regions. This, of course, may then perhaps lead to procurement lots and tendering being increased to very large lots and also to very large units, and small local operators may then be at risk of being excluded, and in particular small operators in the third sector. I would have liked to have now made sure of the value of the ministers, which now takes account of the fact that, in the social field, for example, it is these small players in the third sector, and also small private companies, who are doing an excellent job by providing care services for people with disabilities and the elderly, housing services and the like. However, the reform of the procurement law is also coming to Parliament, which means how these matters are taken into account in these two big cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u69	Mr President! The best is the enemy of the good. This saying has come to mind when one has considered what kind of solution the government has reached in this reform of social welfare and regional government at this stage. There have been many attempts in previous periods to find a social solution, to achieve the perfect model, but it has not been achieved, and I think it is wise to be satisfied with good, if not best. Let us hope that this will be good — that remains to be seen. It is now very common knowledge of the way in which the government is moving. I tend to think, like Minister Ruhula, that we are now a few steps closer to giving the government's proposal to Parliament at some point. The report by the Chancellor of Justice on 2014 is currently under discussion in the Parliament, drawing attention to the weak level of legislation and the fact that many projects are being prepared as a matter of urgency and that the link between its political guidance and the preparation of civil servants is very fragmented and will then result in very weak legislation. It would now be important for the government to move on to the drafting of legislation, that the work should be done carefully,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u70	Mr President! It is worth noting that in this reform we no longer talk about social war, but we are actually talking about social and health solutions when transport, education, rescue services and unions are added to the social and health solutions — at least a game of war. The common Finn may already be confused with these terms, but what matters is how this affects the ordinary customer: if you have a back problem, whether you go to the private side — whether you can go to the private side, which prescribes ultrasound, MRI, X-ray and treatments for many thousand euros — or whether you go to the public side, where you try very quickly, quickly to fix your back. So what does freedom of choice mean? On the other hand, what does that mean for areas that already have a distance of 100 kilometres to the first health centre? How are services increasing in these areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u71	Madam President! The debate has forgotten a couple of things that have been on the table since the time of Paavo Lipponen, namely the pursuit of a single channel of financing and another thing, the fact that there is an incentive for these regions to be able to operate effectively. These costs have probably not been much thought about yet, but I will take a few figures: the cost of public health care is EUR 14 billion a year. The Social Insurance Institution pays EUR 1.3 billion per year for pharmaceutical costs. The Social Insurance Institution pays sickness insurance contributions of EUR 800 million per year. What about getting health insurance to work and the care chains to work smoothly? Then sickness allowance would be reduced, possibly also the need for medical treatment would be reduced, and the cost accordingly would be reduced. The question now for the government: when you are considering costs, have you ever thought about cost liability?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u72	Mr President! Every now and then, it is good to stop and think about why various savings reforms are needed. The reason is, in all its simplicity, that exports do not draw, as the government rightly states in its programme. All policy decisions, including a social solution, have a direct link with the business environment, the promotion of exports and thus the creation of new resources and jobs. For example, the value of exports to Ostrobothnia is higher than in the five other regions combined. The Energy Cluster of Vaasa alone exports more than 30% of our country's energy technology to the world. These billions are used to maintain many services of state administration, provinces and hospital districts. I sincerely hope and want to believe that the government understands the real importance of the high-value export industry for our country, and at least does not weaken the basic public infrastructure, such as central hospital services, from the regions that are key to the export of our country as a whole. Without exports, we cannot afford to maintain the services of any province. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u73	Madam President! I have to thank the government for the social security solution. Freedom of choice for a normal person is a tough thing: fewer health inequalities, fewer queues, and I certainly do not understand why families with children with low incomes, unemployed people and others should continue to queue for doctors as they do at the moment. Now the entire competent staff can be used by all Finns. In Sweden, similar legislation created 267 new health centres. Here, for example, is an answer for those who are concerned that services are running away. More services are on the way. Mr President! I would like to ask you, Mr President, that when 12 full-time hospitals are on the way — but we need more maternity hospitals — would the ministers have some insight into this hospital structure as to how these hospitals are going to specialise?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u74	Mr President! I meet a lot of sick people in my everyday life, their loved ones and their nursing staff, and that is why I am particularly interested in this Government-issued service promise, which sounds so beautiful. But it is not a promise at all, it is a threat, because the government's own material also shows that the service promise is about restricting public care. It would be more honest if the government were to talk about a service limit. It does raise some of the most important questions: Who makes this line-up? Does the government do it? Does the government do it? Who decides if everyone's gonna get cancer treatments in the future? How old, how sick are people being treated? There is a lot of talk about governance here, but once the government has raised the issue of prioritising, then we are faced with big ethical issues, and at least I am not in favour of a society where people are scored, but I am in favour of a society in which everyone will continue to have the right to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u75	This debate was originally intended to take place until 16.30, but I would say that it can be continued if there is a will to debate here. Let us take Mr Uotila again, and then the ministers will comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u76	Mr President! It is clear here that the representatives of the Coalition Party are totally uncritical about this freedom of choice, and when there were clear facts about the Swedish experience here, I concluded that the Minister of Finance's gesture was to prove that it was not true. Prime Minister Sipilä assured me that when the Swedish model is viewed and made the Finnish model, the bad experiences of this freedom of choice in Sweden are genuinely taken into account, but when there seems to be no information about these experiences, I would now be the first to call on the Prime Minister to copy both the Swedish National Audit Office's views and the THL's assessments of the functioning of the Swedish model and the ideal of its freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u77	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u78	Mr President! Answers to a few questions: First of all, parliamentary preparation: shall we start again? Let's not start over again. There is room for active involvement in the monitoring group. In my own introductory speech I read the mandate of the Observatory, and within its mandate we now have the opportunity to make this a good one. Representative Kiuru: EUR 300 million. I have before me the structural policy programme of the previous government, and it says that the increase in the productivity of public service production, minus 1.4 percentage points of GDP, which is just under... And it starts like this: "The reform of social and health care will continue with the STM" and so on. The role of municipalities was 2 billion of this, which means that there we still have something to do together. Reducing the tasks of municipalities in the previous period, one billion, and improving productivity, another billion. We still have a lot of work to do in this whole chapter, but now there was a dekad's mistake. Freedom of choice: I admit there's a risk here. If it's done badly, it'll be an expense machine. If it is carried out well, the cost will fall. Of course we want to do this well and also take into account the bad experiences in neighbouring countries, for example, Sweden's bad experiences were there for many hours of the night. We do not want to repeat them. The status of staff has been specifically recorded there. I would say that there is no need for staff to be concerned about this situation — there will be enough work to do in this area. This savings of EUR 3 billion: We must remember that even this EUR 3 billion means that in the ten-year period 2019 to 2029 costs will increase by 0.9% per year. At the current rate, they would increase by 2.4%. So this is the difference. Mr Gustafsson: strong state control — yes, that includes it, and that is clear. Finally, thank you all for an excellent debate. We'll do good together. That's for sure. We're gonna do a good thing together. We've got a year before this comes to this House for discussion. It will provide sufficient time for the monitoring group. It provides sufficient time for statements by municipalities, regions, professionals. We're gonna make this good together now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u79	Secretary Rehula, two minutes from that spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u80	Madam President! As far as parliamentary preparation is concerned, all parliamentary groups have had the same material at their disposal, some material even rather than government ministers, when the matter has been taken forward in recent weeks. Secondly, we can decide together how we ski — in the same style, in the same direction, at the same speed. The first thing is that, regardless of where you live and the size of the money bag, people in Finland — women and men, children and older people — can be sure that we have the basis on which the services will continue to be built. We can stir up the atmosphere of fear. We can list great risks, as should be done. This process will be similar to that until the President of Parliament's club has put this law on the table as a sign of its completion, we have open questions. Then there is the 3 billion, Madam President: it comes from the fact that social welfare and health care are together. It comes from the fact that basic service providers receive assistance at a specific level, special medical care, to that level. Let's do this together. Secondly, it is absolutely essential that we get information from two points of view, from the point of view of management, from the point of view of service needs, and then that when we move from one place to another, if we need services, we do not have to send papers from one place to another by fax, as is happening today, in 2015. Management, change. In any case, change management takes place in the field and in the regions. Even if we do a little law, change management is done by professionals in the field. Addition of joint action. There are things we need to focus on. Control, strong government control. We need to stop the arms race from building walls. And then the point: content is solved right there on the daily level, with care and care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u81	Secretary Mäntylä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u82	Mr President! I shall begin here, in fact, by answering the very important question raised by Mr Salonen, which is precisely about these clients in child protection. As we all know — and Mr Salonen has experience in this very area of social affairs, I know he has a strong competence there — and I share this concern which you have just raised in your question. All those who work with child welfare know well that these child welfare clients are very diverse. There are very different needs from very different points of view. Investment outside the child’s home is always a heavy decision. It's humanly for a child, young and family. The starting point must always be that professionals are the ones who decide what is the best solution for this particular young person or child. I think that this is something that cannot be done on the terms of the market forces. The child must be heard, the young one must be heard, the family must be heard, but the final decision always comes from the professional. The second point is that the aim of this government in this social reform is also that we will take care of these particularly vulnerable groups by all the means we have. Reference was made here to procurement law. It's being reformed. There have also been a lot of discussions in the STM on how to protect and safeguard these most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u83	Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u84	Mr President! Indeed, the objectives that Mr Ruhula has outlined here will be shared. What I have been trying to ask is, as the Prime Minister said, that we were thinking about this Sweden during the hours of the night, and now the new element in your decision is actually to bring this rather market-driven model now — how do you respond to the criticisms of the experts that now, with this new element, there is a risk that the benefits of improving the service chains will not be gained there, namely that the bounce will not be reduced, but will increase. Then what you do not answer, and I hope that we will get an answer to it: when you said that the basic prince is that everyone will receive services everywhere in Finland, first of all here the experts, the government's own memos state that this saving of EUR 3 billion will require a reduction in the number of offices and that the promise of service that will be made in the future will be more limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u85	Mr President! I welcome Minister Mäntylä's reply, which indeed addressed a very important issue, the issue of child protection, whose representative It's where he started. I would now like to extend this to this whole social reform and the way in which private services are now being used as providers of these services. We have a large number of services in the social services and health care services that require decisions by the authorities, where the authority has to take responsibility for it. These decisions are made in child welfare, in substance abuse, mental health services, in the case of elderly people with dementia. The question here is that the authority has to make decisions on behalf of the person when he is not himself capable of doing these. I ask now that it has been said in previous preparations, in which I have been involved for many years, that a private company, a company, cannot be given the kind of decisions that are made by the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u86	Mr President! Indeed, Prime Minister Sipilä said in his own speech that the exercise of freedom of choice will be the main rule at the basic level, but as far as the specific level is concerned, freedom of choice will be used where it applies. Until now, we can agree in the Group of the Greens, with certain conditions at that basic level too, but I have now come to the very conclusion that there is no consensus in the government, nor between the MPs of the government parties on what is meant by freedom of choice and what has been agreed on it. It is precisely this that decisions are taken by the authorities in the field of child protection, social services, and public authorities have a responsibility to what is decided. Prime Minister, is it the case that the representative: What is the government doing there on the axis of freedom of choice? In child welfare, we cannot go to freedom of choice in this way, as Mrs Lauslahti has said? After all, he is a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u87	Mr President! Rehabilitation as a whole is covered by the social welfare solution. In the current form, rehabilitation is multi-channel in terms of funding, and the transition to a single channel raises additional financial concerns because many rehabilitation centres are in very difficult financial difficulties. The rehabilitation of people with severe disabilities has decreased, although diverse forms of work-related rehabilitation have increased, but it is in open form. These are common factors that give rise to concerns in rehabilitation institutions about how they will cope in the future. In my opinion, it is very important to keep the real strength in these rehabilitation centres to use them in a much more elegant and diverse way than is currently the case. There is a different practice in different medical districts: others make good use of rehabilitation facilities and existing investments,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u88	Minister Rehula's answer, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u89	Madam Speaker! Conversation is easier if and when we have the same words and have read the same papers and the same bases. In the future, the public authorities in this country will be responsible for ensuring that the services are available. The public authority, the public authority, is responsible for the decisions taken by the authorities. There is no clearer way to say this than to say that there is the basic basis that we have in all situations – even in those situations where we create the Finnish model of freedom of choice, for example because there is now a social welfare system involved. The authority will take the decisions of the authorities, period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u90	Mr President! Mr Ruhula, why can you not say that Mrs Lauslahti has completely misunderstood this? There is still the impression that the meeting has different objectives in this area and that the negotiations have agreed on this freedom of choice something that still rests on follow-up and further negotiations, and that is a very frightening thing. I know that Mr Mäntylä said it exactly as it is, and I am very grateful for it. Much remains to be done, then, for you ministers to hold onto this, because clearly you within the government still have room for agreement. Representative One last thing to say to Lauslahti is why a 14-year-old cannot choose: a 14-year-old is a child. According to the law, a 14-year-old is a child. It is one thing to hear the child’s opinion on a matter involving him and to transfer responsibility for the child’s supervision and decision to him. I hope that you will look at the contents before you make such statements, because such statements will be given to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u91	Mr President! It has now become quite clear that these decisions by the authorities are taken by the authorities, and that is quite clear. We now want to confuse this freedom of choice with such individual cases, which are, of course, exceptions to the general rule, that is quite clear. But I would also like to correct the misconception which has previously been here that this would lead to us having only these large multinational companies working alongside the public. That is not the case. I have watched very closely how small old-age care institutions have managed in this current system, and the nursing-run places that are human and where people want to go have not been able to cope with this competition in the present system, once they have been competitive, demanded large investments that small businesses have not been able to do. But in the future, as freedom of choice changes so that the user can choose more and more,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u92	Mr President! The Sote solution is a huge leap in the social marathon that is still ahead. Now we have to move forward, not backwards, as the SDP suggests. Now we have to get to the finish line, and I think that nurse was mad at the SDP, not the government. I would also like to say that the expansion of freedom of choice is a step towards other Western countries. This is a Finnish innovation, but freedom of choice already exists in other Western countries, and we have to go there. But let me say here that it is quite clear that the public authorities bear the main responsibility for ensuring that equal services are available to everyone. When we do the Finnish model, the freedom of choice model, it is important that the public authorities define the choice of services that can be selected, clear quality criteria and the compensation that the service provider receives. This is also an opportunity to replace the tough competition procedure so that small businesses, sole proprietors and organisations can be listed as service providers if they meet these strict criteria, which the public authorities will:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u93	Mr President! There is still a need to address this issue of freedom of choice as regards the fact that, when we are talking here about these savings, which this reform is quite understandable, it cannot be that this freedom of choice is, as it were, such an open thorn for everyone to use these services — otherwise we are in a situation where the costs really go away. Therefore, there must of course be clear criteria for who can provide these services. However, the question remains as to how you, Minister Ruhula, will ensure that this organiser, who is responsible for these matters, does not become such a competitive centre that cannot control the seamlessness of the service chains. This is the most relevant question for that person and has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u94	Madam President! Even at the beginning of the discussion, the left was asked whose choice, the customer or the company. The client, the patient, the client, believe me. Then the public authorities, of course, as Mr Sarkomaa has explained here, define the quality criteria and determine what it will pay the taxpayer. This is the basis of everything. Then the patient, specifically the patient, the client, is the one who chooses, votes on his feet. I don't understand what you demars are against, that even a low-income person can choose a doctor. President! I don't see a watch. Well, there's no President. All right, let's go. Then, Social Democrats, you're going to paint this kind of boogeyman on the wall. Anyone can choose at any time, anywhere, anywhere — none of this has been suggested by anyone. Of course we can get the cost of shooting into the heavens if we make such a model, but when we don't. Take that creep off the wall, and neither Mr. Salonen nor anyone else will be appalled anymore. As far as Sweden's experience is concerned, of course we will learn. It is a neighbouring country, the nearest country, of course we are learning and we do not want to repeat the mistakes that have been made. As I said, the cost will be put in the sky if this matter is handled badly, but, as the Prime Minister and others said, we want to do things well. We want to make a sensible model of Finland and not repeat mistakes made in Sweden, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u95	Mr President! I find this debate on freedom of choice really confusing. We have talked about this very much and in many different forums, and it is still very unclear to me, after what Mr Zyskowicz has said, how this freedom of choice will now take place. There are many of these models, and freedom of choice can be implemented well, but it is very important now that we really know how this is done, who chooses what to choose from and from whom to choose.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u96	Congressman Zyskowicz had some comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u97	Mr President! I will answer Mr Pekonen's question. First of all, Mr Pekonen and everyone else, we are just in the middle of a job. We're just getting started, we're still in the middle of a job. We can all influence and influence it. But here, mainly the Social Democrats, including Mr Haatainen in a TV debate, have painted such a bogeyman on the wall, which means that anyone in the morning decides that I will go to Turku to operate on Sakari Orava and then I will send the bill to a social area, of course not. No one has presented this sort of thing, nowhere has been thought of like this,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u98	In other words, we will continue to speak at that time of 17 minutes, as the President-in-Office has said in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u99	Madam President! It does raise the question of whose freedom to choose. How do you choose when, for example, there is no supply at the poor borders in the north?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u100	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has just proved that the government is pursuing the Swedish model, which I know very well. But, Mr President, the impression has been given here that this freedom of choice is some sort of blissful model or that it is a trend. But it is good to see how things have been arranged in those countries where health care is working very well. In Denmark and Norway, all health care, including occupational health care, is handled by the public. In Sweden, social services in particular are being returned to the public with all their power. For example, in Canada, where services work well, they are produced entirely in public. Even the New York City Council recently decided that in the future health care investors will only be non-profit organisations. Thus, the Finnish Government is in full contrast to this privatization process, and although the government wants to prevent these multinationals from entering the market and favour domestic, blue and white entrepreneurship, it is very difficult to find the means to do so. President Risikko witnessed this on television last week in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u101	Mr President! The respondent guard is a little thinned, but the qualifications have still remained, and I dare to expand the subject slightly to my own profession, which means that the rescue services will be included in this and there medical transport, first responders. After all, the reduction in these hospital transfers will also result in savings, but I believe that this synergy within the rescue service must also be taken into account. The question now is whether the rescue operation and its operational aspects will be sufficiently listened to at this stage of preparation, and the second question, which would go a little further to the other minister: will the training of the rescue services be reformed in line with the new situation, as recorded in the Government Programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u102	Madam President! This is now about this freedom of choice and what it really means. After all, there is a strong record in this social solution that the individual’s choice is supported by uniform criteria and information supporting the choice of services. In addition to this, there is also a strong record of how efficiency-supporting solutions are developed: more comparability and systematic comparison of different production methods. I would also like to remind you that we also need to know what efficiency and efficiency mean. In health care, the product is not the surgical visit or research, even though it is currently being measured, but, as Mrs Ruhula has said, we must continue to measure what measures are being taken to measure the health benefits of the patient. I would ask you again, Minister Ruhula, to open up the quality indicators.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u103	Madam President! I have been able to read and get to know and familiarise myself with exactly the same documents as Mr Ruhula, the Minister I appreciate. When we were just talking about the EUR 3 billion savings target, Mr Ruhula, the things you mentioned are true, but you did not mention this priority, the reduction of the service network and the restriction of the provision of services. They are equally part of that package. In the interests of honesty, this should also be mentioned. And as far as this legislation is concerned, which prevents large international companies from gaining control over Finnish social and health services, this is a good objective, but, as has been pointed out, no legislation directly prevents this. Of course, it is possible to organise competitive tendering in such a way that small and locals have the opportunity to win these competitions, but no legislation prevents the pike phenomenon in which one large operator eats small operators out of the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u104	Madam President! It is good that we get the patient back to the centre and the computer from the host’s seat back to the position of the reng so that the nurse and the doctor can focus on the patient’s good encounter, listening, studying and treating instead of using the computer. Patients' rights, freedom of choice and good care are to be ensured both at the beginning and at the end of life. It's a matter of honor for the staff. Prime Minister Sipilä said that we are on our way to a European streamlined system. That is very good, because I feel that, at least on some issues, we are still in the ancient Soviet system in Finland rather than in the Western Europe line, where the human rights of everyone, patients and staff alike, are taken into account and implemented. I would have asked Prime Minister Sipilä, but now I ask, Minister Ruhula, directly: will the future take place in Finland too, and in Finland's war, not only patients' rights but also medical staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u105	Madam President! The social welfare reform has reached a situation in which content is being built: all the functions of social welfare and health care are being transferred from the municipalities to the new social welfare areas. In principle, the municipalities are left with only health promotion tasks, which are of the utmost importance. The better we succeed in promoting health, the less disease we have, and the more healthy life a person lives, which must be the goal of all of us in our own lives. I would like to ask Minister Ruhula: has any of the negotiations even overlooked this issue, is there to be some sort of functional link between the task of promoting health in the municipality and this area of social security? I think that promoting health is so important, and even in our own lives we can do it even better and live healthier and longer. Has such a bridge been built or is it being built?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u106	Madam President! This is where we heard from Minister Rehula that the municipalities are now allowed to speak about these areas, and that is a good thing. However, the question that I and Mr Blomqvist, among others, raised remained open: will there be a linguistic impact assessment? So it is a fundamental question in that sense that we all know that when we are sick, when we need care for the elderly or when we need social care, it is important for each of us to speak our own mother tongue. It is not a google translation; it requires that knowledge of the language. It is therefore important for the government to assess how these linguistic rights can be implemented in the best way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u107	Madam President! Let me return to this debate, which Mr Zyskowicz raised here, claiming that we are drawing something about this freedom of choice. That is not the case. Here is some misunderstanding now — I do not know what language to speak, that this could open up better. It is a question of ensuring that the individual person's affairs, when he often needs many different services, have as seamless a chain as possible. Not only is it in the interests of the patient and the customer, but it also makes sense in terms of costs. Now my fear and our fear here is that there will be more of these hatches in this system. If we look at these social areas, whether they are 18 or 15 or 12, then if it becomes a mere competition for companies, then this will not work. There will be no savings, no better services. So now we need to focus on how that chain is seamless. I would like Minister Ruhula to be able to tell us here: how to ensure in this legislation that this social worker
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u108	Mr President! I think it has become very clear from this debate that no one really knows what this freedom of choice is going to mean in practice. And given how central it is to this whole and how many threats and risks it involves, it is actually quite alarming that there are such significant differences of opinion within the government about how it will be implemented. I would actually like to ask Minister Ruhula: when will we get answers to how this future Finnish model will differ from this Swedish model, the problems of which the Prime Minister also raised in his own speech? This system, described just now by Mr Zyskowicz, sounded quite exactly like the Swedish model in my ears.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u109	Mr President! To the opposition, I would say do not be afraid — the freedom of choice model has not yet been established. It has been said a great many times here that these basic principles have been decided and that we are now starting to prepare for them. I would like to say that it is clear that this model must be a carefully developed model based on research knowledge, international experience, so that the objectives of the social welfare reform — equal services, clear care chains and cost-effective service production — can be adhered to. It's perfectly clear. But when freedom of choice is achieved in all other countries, if we are talking about Western Europe, I would like to ask you to be quite frank: is it true that you are not in favour of people's freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u110	Mr President! I've got a lot to worry about right now. We have nothing against freedom of choice. And a private service provider is a good servant, but a very bad host. My concern is growing now that when the government has such fragmented ideas of what this model is going to be, this is where the master's seat is soon taken during this time when we are here arguing in the Chamber of Parliament. When I listened to the government exit at the press conference, the finance minister, Mr Stubb, said that there would be full freedom of choice: a citizen can freely choose between private and public. After the same event, I was on the air with representative Saariko and asked him the same question. He started talking about a service voucher model. Now we hear here from Representative Zyskowicz that is coming in on this kind of akk-reditation listing method, i.e. the Swedish model. And then, at the same time, it is said that Sweden's problems and difficulties will be resolved — but in Sweden, investigations are being carried out at the best time, and the reports will not come until next year,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u111	Mr President! I would like to see an analytical debate in this Chamber on what this freedom of choice means. It is not an argument to say, for example, that freedom of choice exists in other countries or that one must take a step west. Yes, people deserve to have proper arguments here, and I think the main problem now in this debate is that the government does not seem to have decided how freedom of choice is to be implemented, or you will not tell us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u114	Madam President! In my opinion, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto raised the issue of freedom of choice, which I would have liked to see, and I expect that the government should be able to identify it a little more precisely, that it is not on the basis of such fragmented information that the representatives of the government parties are here a bit like the sparrows, flying here and not really able to say what this is all about. But I would have asked Minister Ruhula: When we have these 24/7 on-call issues dealt with and we have a broad range of services, smaller service units and units with special entities, who determines where to live if there is a risk of a stroke or a heart attack? Is there a different possibility of survival in different on-call areas, if certain of them:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u115	Mr President! The war reform finally came to the finals, good. Freedom of choice between the public, private and third sectors is to be welcomed. The most important thing for the citizen is that the services are close and work flexibly for everyone. Prime Minister Sipilä's speech contained a reference to a compatible organisation of information. Fortunately, Mr Ruhula is here so that I can ask him straight: does this mean an improvement on the next problem, which I have followed closely? There's a patient with a severe heart condition. He visits both a private specialist and a university central hospital because the private does not have all the equipment needed for treatment. When treatment changes or procedures are carried out in either place, the data do not pass between the two operators and no comprehensive management plan does not really come into being. There will be incidents likely to be prevented if the information were to pass between the two operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u116	Madam President! Listening to this debate, it sounds as if we are all on the public side at the moment and now we are doing privatisation. I believe that neither of the extremes is at all true today, but it is said that we have a lot of social service providers in the private and third sectors today. What worries me most now is that, when the Prime Minister's announcement says that a national joint purchasing unit is to be set up in the autonomous regions, it does sound like a large national unit, and it concerns the way in which these small social players who offer those services today can be taken into account. There are many people in rural sparsely populated areas who live on the fact that they have a limited number of patients and customers. Their bread comes from it and they provide good, high-quality social services. But if we go to national units, they have no chance of being involved. I would now like to hear what this national procurement unit is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u117	Mr President! It is clear that this part of the social dialogue has now been discussed here, too, mainly in relation to this reform. From the citizens' point of view, it is certainly the most important part of how we can ensure that we continue to get to the doctor and that care chains are smooth. But I would like to express my particular thanks to the Government for the fact that, in this context, an important decision was taken to establish these self-government regions, which are multi-sectoral self-government regions, so that the tasks of the regional federations are also transferred to the autonomous regions, the rescue services, the development tasks of the Ely centres. This is a solution that has been commended and commended in those provinces. I know that the regions are very motivated to take part in this preparatory work, which will create such multi-functional self-government regions. In conclusion, however, I would like to raise one last point, and that is that when we talk about upper secondary vocational education, we should not create a system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u118	Madam President! As far as this debate is concerned, the fact is that there is no common vision and policy on freedom of choice, and that debate will continue this autumn. But the fact is that 10% of our social and health care customers produce 80% of all our costs, and of this 10%, two thirds are social care customers who use a lot of health care services. This shows why social and health services need to be developed in a holistic and systematic way. Now, if these social and health services are divided into different producers and the customer's freedom of choice is extended to almost all situations, I will ask Minister Rehula how to ensure that in these situations the customer does not run from one service unit to another depending on what he wants. And then how does the government ensure that this comprehensive design and planned service can be provided to the customer?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u119	Madam President! I'm sure everyone here is in favour of patients or customers having better choice. Everyone's in favour of faster access to treatment. And this is what they're trying to build. The question that has raised concern is that there are so many different views on this exercise of freedom of choice. Even Prime Minister Sipilä himself has said that there is a risk that large international companies will hijack social and health services funded by Finnish tax resources, and the worst scenario is that these are taken over by a private monopoly or duopoly and, in addition, operate from tax havens. The last time I was in Question Time and today again I asked the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, how to prevent this, and the answer has been long and broad — no idea. Minister Ruhula: do you now have any idea,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u120	Madam President! As has been shown in this debate, there are still a lot of big issues open, and there are still a lot of big questions on the desk where solutions are being sought in one of the parliamentary working groups in which everyone can participate. It has also been asked who has now won. However, it is good and easy to agree that Finland and the Finns have won that the solutions have moved forward and this frame solution has emerged. Much has now been said about this freedom of choice, but it is also important to note that this state guidance has been agreed upon. It is an issue that will ensure that these economic objectives are met and that the self-government regions actually operate on a customer-oriented basis. And an important part of this agreement is also an evolutionary clause which in practice means that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u123	Mr President! I feel that this debate is a reflection of the fact that this social reform is still in the process of being built, or that stone feet are being built, but the real work is ahead. Many things are open, as has been shown here: funding, staff, state contributions, pension liabilities, what is the real content of freedom of choice. What I would like to emphasise here is that there should be advocates of public welfare services, health services and social services in this Chamber. On the other hand, there must be strong state control, solely in view of the objective that the overall tax rate will not increase with this project, right? What I would like to pay particular attention to is the fact that these autonomous regions were also built here and that there are many other tasks besides social work. When that is the case, it would have been wise to have
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u124	Mr President! I hope that in the new mess the service chains, decision-making, common principles and customer orientation in child welfare and child welfare services will be better realised. Minister Mäntylä said that it is always tragic when a child has to be placed outside the home. But now it is worth remembering the other side: it is very tragic that we also have very many children who have to stay in intolerable conditions in their own home for far too long so that they are so damaged that they can no longer really be rehabilitated anywhere. So you have to notice the child's need, you have to get more stakes, skills, common rules of play. Two excellent works have been done, effective child protection and quality recommendations for child welfare, and I would like to see these finally implemented and introduced. The child is the most important here and not the rights of biological parents — they are far too strong in Finland in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u125	Mr President! It has become clear in this debate that a good exercise of freedom of choice is a key element in securing good services for people in the neighbourhood. At best, we will have new domestic care small businesses, but at worst multi-national companies will take over the market and take profits to tax havens. Yes, I can see that it is also sensible to go through the legislation on tax planning: what can be improved there. In his opening speech, Prime Minister Sipilä also stated that compatible information systems are an essential and essential part of the reform, and this is the case. I would like to ask you which model has system progression and design. For example, we have a decision already in force over the last period on a national gateway, which would be an X-Road-type system in line with the Estonian model.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u126	Mr President! With this type of reform of social welfare and health care and the reform of the provincial administration in one province on its own, I also say that I understand very well all the doubts that this kind of reform is all in all, even though it is now stated that we are still quite in its early stages, more specific legislation is lacking, and I think there is a bit of political ambition involved here. But as Mr Ihalainen said in his excellent speech, we have a tremendous amount of work ahead of us. The work that is being done here in a legislative way is, in fact, a small whole in comparison to the fact that we are actually starting to do that work on the ground. For example, if it is thought that nearly 200 employers will be linked to 18 employers before 19 C.E.,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u127	Mr President! When you listen to this debate, you would think that we already have a ready model when the opposition is so critical of it. Fortunately, however, we have now reached the conclusion of the first step, unlike the opposition, which was unable to do so during the last period. This social welfare reform is the largest single reform of the Finnish administration. This is an enormous effort. It is now very important that sufficient experts will be provided for this change work, because this will not be done along with the work. It is quite clear that these large companies are not taking over this market. It should be taken care of, because it is not intended that the money goes into the pockets of large foreign owners. And when I listened to Minister Mäntylä, it is good that the patient’s best will not be forgotten at any point. That's what I'm convinced of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u129	Mr President! We still have to take that into account by the Prime Minister. I was surprised that the centre would have been prepared to save more of the war last season than this parliamentary group suggested. Instead, I understand that the technical framework had to be revised during the last term of the government, also with regard to this reform of social security. But now my concern is that — and I will put it another way — if it is that we have set a saving target of EUR 3 billion for social services, then we might still have little thought that this timely treatment, access to services and the integ panel could achieve this, but instead this hot night of the threat of government collapse ended with the introduction of a market model and there was a great deal of controversy about how many such areas will come to Finland, where these services will be organised and produced. Instead, we noticed that now we are no longer talking about a few tens, but about the hundreds of new players who, by what ability they operate and by what authority they come to this end, are putting this integration at risk. That's why my fear is that
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u130	I will give you three more answers, and then the Minister will reply. You can rest assured that the social dialogue will continue on other days as well. These three persons are Mr Kalli, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Uotila. — Congressman Kalli will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u131	Thank you, Madam President. The success of this big issue will depend on the speed with which the people who are affected in the future by this in one way or another give birth to the start-up work, the way in which the service points and care chains are created so that the best experts are there at the beginning of the care chain, where they are able to assess the case of child protection, and where they are able to assess the old person: is he at home, or is he in assisted housing, or is he in special care or in primary health care? That is why this debate should give a strong signal that will trigger this work and that the people who are there could begin to shape and take forward this issue. The implementation would be much easier after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u132	Madam President! I was rather surprised when the opposition here at one point took the mode that this debate would have revealed huge differences of opinion within the government parties as regards this freedom of choice. Personally, I have not noticed this, but of course, when this preparation is still in its stages, there are many questions today which relate to this and which have not yet been answered. But in its common policy, the basics of this freedom of choice have been blocked by the government. It was great to hear that freedom of choice is supported even on the left. No one is driving a model where you can pick anything, anywhere, anytime, and send the bill somewhere. As for these huge private companies that take everything away, the responsible patient gets
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u133	Then Mr Uotila and Mr Lindtman, and then we go to the Minister's answer. And really, as I said, there has been a debate for three hours, that is, half an hour more than had been planned before. We'll take it from here in the next few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u134	Madam President! The treatment chain was so much so that some time ago there was talk of the role of health promotion and preventive action. There has been a great deal of concern because exercise — I know that the Minister is a sports person — is an essential part of health promotion and prevention. As we know, immobility and low physical activity cost billions of dollars to society every year. Now we've got 15 major areas coming up. What is the role of municipalities? Where is responsibility for physical activity, the preventive effect of physical activity, the promotion of health? How is this organised in such a way that this section is also genuinely involved in the care chain that is needed from preventive action to more demanding institutional care and special care?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u135	And Mr Lindtman will end this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u136	Mr President! It is good that, at the initiative of the opposition, the Prime Minister then ended up with this announcement and this debate took place. In particular, this market model or freedom of choice has raised questions and there have been various interpretations. If we are talking about what the centre is talking about, that the public service can complement services or compete with quality or, if necessary, issue service vouchers, then we do not necessarily need new legislation — or why? If it is the case, as has been said, that in future you will be completely in line for a doctor, then it will be a little more indicative of what Mr Zyskowicz has said here. But if you can gather this discussion, you can see that the government has set itself really hard targets. So Stubb has said that in the future you can get in line with the doctor, the services will improve, the health inequalities will narrow and the remaining 3 billion will be saved. We will wait and make a contribution with the tools available to us and we hope that you will agree to some improvement. We are involved on the basis of the objectives that were set together during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u137	And then Minister Rehula, no more than five minutes, please. Then let's go back on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u138	Madam President! In my opinion, doing this parliamentary work and doing it together is one of the elements of something that we think about. When there is a point of view, let us begin to reconcile positions. There have been very conciliatory and cooperative speeches here during this debate. But then there have been some other kinds of speeches, even when the word 'no' has been used more than even some attempt has been made in this debate. I am particularly looking forward to the Socialist model of freedom of choice. You have actually promised it here today because you have said that you are in favour of increasing people's freedom of choice. I look forward to the moment when we will also be able to discuss what is the Socialist model of freedom of choice. Secondly, with regard to this freedom of choice, attempts have now been made by force to break the lines of government on what has been agreed or not agreed. The first thing the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, said when the solution came into being: queues for the health centre will be lost. What did he mean by that? He meant that the available medical resources would be used in such a way that there was no longer any need to wait in line. But he didn't say he could open any door at any time. Secondly, if you can read — there is no need to analyse, because there is such a risk of misunderstanding — this government policy from a week and a half ago, it is clearly stated here in the section on freedom of choice that 'the user chooses himself'. Secondly, and with reference to today's debate, the fundamental question is: "The changes will be prepared within the timeframe of the Government Programme as part of the social solution, so that the Government's proposals will be submitted as soon as possible after the Social Security Act, so that legislation on the simplification of multi-channel funding and the extension of freedom of choice will be put into effect on 1 January 2019." Here are clear notes for the schedule. — — — — Timetable template. — — — — As far as content is concerned, if you are familiar with the philosophy of any country’s freedom of choice models, we will not need a service voucher at all or will only need it in special medical care in some respects. As for the service voucher we have today, if we have freedom of choice, we do not need a service voucher, because those directors and drivers will then come under this freedom of choice law. There are a number of things that are absolutely necessary to take into account when we are in a situation before this law is ready, starting, for example, with the spike open. We will continue to have a budget line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u139	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u140	Mr President! Is there a life outside the wars? Yes, it is. We study a lot, among other things. As part of the major savings, the Board of Directors is reforming the student support system, and as part of it, the indexation of student support would be abandoned. The amount of the student grant would no longer be revised on 1 August 2016 based on the change in the KEL index, after which the amount of the student grant would no longer follow the development of living costs. Since 1.8.2014, the basic amounts of the student grant and the increases made on the basis of the income of the parents have been increased by academic year on the basis of the change in the national pension index. The latest increase was made from the beginning of the academic year 2015, as of 1.8.2015. The purpose of the indexation of the student grant has been to maintain the real value of the student grant and the purchasing power of the support, which helps to ensure that students receiving support can concentrate on studying with student support. According to the Government Programme, the indexation of student support will be abolished as of 2016. In this case, the indexation of the study grant would have been valid for two years — that is to say, only two years. Study social benefits are part of social security, not student wages. The purpose of the benefits is to enable everyone to study full-time. In order to achieve equal study opportunities, the student social support system must be in order and the student allowance must be indexed. The student grant is already at a very low level, and the support of the weakest secondary students in particular is not enough to secure basic income. As the level of the student grant lags behind the general increase in the cost level, students will be increasingly involved in paid work in addition to studies, which will lead to longer study hours. Well, this too is not in line with the government's planned reductions in study hours. The Board of Directors is making a conscious choice to separate the student grant from the general development of living costs. After that, the student grant is the only income transfer intended as a real form of subsistence, the amount of which does not follow the overall cost development. It is clear that the abolition of the indexation of student aid in the longer term undermines the adequacy of study aid and may already affect the possibility of obtaining education in accordance with its abilities and needs, as the cost level rises. Removing the indexation of student support thus increases inequality in Finnish society. I also believe that student aid should be reformed so that it becomes as simple and as equal a system as possible. Mr President! On the basis of what I have just said, I propose that the draft law be adopted otherwise than in accordance with Article 11 of the report. amended as follows: Article 11, Amount of study grant, new article: "The amounts of study grant provided for in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be increased from the beginning of each academic year as set out in the National Pensions Index Act (456/2001)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u141	Madam President! I thank Mr Gustafsson for his extremely important and good speech. For my part, I can support the proposal and am a little surprised at where the Minister of Education is, where the lines of government are — a few are here. I can immediately be surprised to see that the government is proposing to abolish the student grant from the National Pensions Index. Does Mr Zyskowicz know, for example, that the government is already cutting people below the poverty line? And does Mr Zyskowicz know at this stage what this means for equality in education, what this means for the accessibility of education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u142	In this respect, I say to Mrs Aalto that tomorrow, when this is discussed in detail, these proposals will be made at that stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u143	Madam President! In 2010, I took a legislative initiative in which I proposed tying student aid to the National Pensions Index. At the same time, I also proposed raising the level of the student allowance, paying the housing allowance also for the school's holiday months and removing the impact of parental income from the criteria for granting the study grant. Then I wrote on the basis of the bill: "Students' study money is insufficient to guarantee the student's livelihood. Education and training must be possible without indebtedness, wealthy background or time-consuming work." These criteria remain valid. Madam President! The Government negotiations in spring 2011 resulted in a decision that students had been trying to drive for decades. At the time, the study grant was the only benefit not linked to the national pension index — the previous government had committed child benefit. And now, just four years later, the government is removing indexation from study aid and also from the child allowance, which the centre considered to be a particularly large profit at the time. Madam President! This index-binding decision was a great achievement for the work of student organisations and also for our important objectives in the negotiations. And then few would have believed that the situation was that the full index came in just one year, then the Stubb government cut the index, and now the Sipilä government is removing the index completely. I was the minister responsible for study aid in 2011-2014. During this period, every year, proposals were made to cut the student allowance, to weaken the student allowance, but the total amount to be used for the student grant was not reduced. Changes were made within it: among other things, there was a reduction in the pay-out months, but the corresponding amount increased the level of the study grant. Mr President! I think it is one of the achievements of the Left last season that students and student support were spared cuts. But now that the city center, the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru were marching into the government with a promise of education, the promises made with pictures before the elections were completely forgotten. Madam President! The abolition of the indexation means that student support, the student grant, will fall behind every single year for the group whose income is already below the poverty line. In fact, mere study grant and housing allowance, alone, are not even enough to cover the average housing costs of students, which are currently around EUR 512 per month. Madam President! Removing the index is completely wrong. It's an unreasonable decision, and it's a cruel decision. But this alone is not even enough for the assembly and the minister responsible for study aid, Mr Grahn-Laasonen. In addition, the Government Programme envisages savings of EUR 70 million in student support during this term of government and EUR 150 million in the longer term. This latter amount, EUR 150 million, is responsible for the fifth current state aid expenditure. In other words, the government wants to remove the index and cut out a fifth of the student aid — a group that already lives below the poverty line. Madam President! This presentation and these plans will show red cards for the goals of the Government Programme that students should graduate more quickly. This means that students do not have the opportunity to study full-time, but requires that we work and study what can be done alongside the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u144	Mr President! This is a sad day for the student movement, students and those in favour of students, and I am afraid it will not be the only sad day in this reign. Many years were campaigned for the indexation of student aid before the decision to bind was finally reached at the end of the last government term. Many representatives in this Chamber have also been involved in marching for indexation. The decision was a significant victory for the student movement, whose main objectives it has been. For a long time this benefit did not allow the increase in the cost of living to be followed by the fact that the Sipilä Government is now the first to withdraw this decision through its study aid measures. With this proposal, the index revisions of study aid will remain in history for a period of two years. With this decision, students will again be made the only group of the population whose primary benefit support will not follow any increase in the overall cost level. This is not equal and it is not fair. So let us return to the situation before 2014 where the real value of student money and purchasing power are developing negatively. It is estimated that from 1992 to 2007 one-fifth of the purchasing power of student money was closed. There will also be no justification other than savings for this bad and unfair decision. According to the Government's proposal, the abolition of the indexation link of student aid is intended to reduce government expenditure on student support resulting from index increases and thus contribute to the implementation of the necessary fiscal adjustment measures decided by the Government. But if the necessary savings are sought, why is the study aid not provided in such a way as to freeze the index for a fixed period? The saving effects would be the same, but as a measure it would make it easier to return to index checks as the economic situation improves. Why, in the case of benefits specifically intended for young people and children, namely study grants and child supplements, permanently remove indexation? The second key objective of the student movement has been to eliminate the impact of parental income on adult students living independently. The government's proposal welcomes the fact that this problem is addressed by an increase of 13% in income limits. However, the whole problem is still not being eliminated. The situation in Finland, even after this change, will continue to be that the level of parent income is not affected by the student's study aid for adult university students living independently, but for adult secondary students living independently it will. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this is still not well suited to the equal treatment of the Constitution. The outcome of this proposal is therefore a situation in which the government is returning us to the unequal situation in which students are the only group whose livelihood is not followed by a change in the cost of living and where students who are not in higher education are still treated unequally against those who are studying in higher education. For these reasons, I support the amendment tabled by Mr Gustafsson and will be in favour tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u145	Madam President! It is not the basic income of students or other recipients of social benefits, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution, that depends on whether the benefit is indexed or not, but generally on the level of benefit. In fact, if this government had not dismantled this index-linked study aid, next year the student grant would decrease by 0.4 per cent. So the National Pensions Index will fall by 0.4% for next year, and the opposition seems to want student aid to be reduced for next year, because you are opposed to this indexation link being abolished. If we think about the future of the next few years for students, it has been predicted that the National Pensions Index will be either zero or minus in the next few years, so in the short term the opposition option would cut student support rather than improve the status of students in this regard. Mr President! In addition to this index, this government proposal suggests that the dependence of study aid on the income of parents when it comes to secondary students aged 18 and 19 will be reduced by 13%. This is something that the previous government also intervened in by alleviating this issue by raising these income limits. It was a very good decision, and this government will continue to move in the right direction so that by 13% these income limits will increase. This issue has also been addressed in the past by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has clearly stated that it is not in line with Article 6 on the equality of the Constitution that the idea is to put students in an unequal position on the basis of whether they are studying at second or higher levels. When you read this report by the Committee on Culture, Parliament's statement, which says that it draws attention to the fact that this government proposal improves the status of students compared to the current situation and is also in line with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. So it is not so much a question of whether a student lives at home or away from home, or of putting students on an unequal footing on the basis of age, but rather of drawing attention to the fact that students cannot be placed on an unequal footing on the basis of whether they are studying at secondary or tertiary level. In this respect, too, the government's proposal is very welcome. It will not completely remove this situation, but it will clearly take a much better course and, after this reform, the number of people who will find themselves in a situation of inequality as described above will be substantially reduced. In that sense, it can be said that in relation to this situation, which we live in Finland, in relation to the economic situation, this government proposal is in all respects good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u146	There were a few replies, i.e. first Mr Kiuru Krista and then Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u147	Mr President! Yes, I must say, Mr Salmon, that the good thing about your speech was that you drew attention to this constitutional statement that secondary students and university students should not be treated differently in terms of student support and study social benefits. That's what we're all for. The only thing that has been regrettable is the fact that the budgetary allocation has been so weak that there has not yet been an improvement on this issue. But I am very much in favour of money being found for this. But instead I have to say that I have never heard, never heard in this Chamber, and yet I am, for the third time, such an argument in support of people, of the indexation that is built to support basic security, in which these subsidies are, as it were, always on board, where living and other things go up. Now I understand this from the point of view that you wanted to protect the angle that it does not happen to students that they will no longer receive the same student allowance as they used to. But then the government should have taken action to raise these, not to explain here that the index needs to be cut, so that people can have the same amount in their hands. This is where the dog is buried. You cut off this great historic reform from the last period, that we finally got these educational social benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u148	Madam President! Representative The salmon was neither accurate nor perceptive when reading opposition protests. In other words, it said that an increase was made on the basis of indexation. In the past, when there have been some times that the Kela index was a minus sign, a freezing decision has been taken, so that the aid does not fall. Well, what did the current government do? Decided to freeze all the indices but broke this decision when you noticed that the index is a minus sign, that is, you will visit the pockets of the unemployed, pensioners and you will not make the decision which, in fact, in this objection is, for example, in the left-wing alternative budget, that never go to the minus sign. Mr President! Instead, the decision to raise this to secondary students is a good and right one. When I was the minister responsible for study aid, we made significant increases to this and we also decided that, through a few steps of increase, we would completely remove this, because there is no basis for parents' incomes affecting the level of study support for students aged 18 to 19 who live independently. This is not the case for university students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u150	I will give you three more answers, then we will go to the list of speakers. So these representatives are representatives of the Salmon, Andersson and Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u151	Mr President! As I said in that speech, if this indexation had not been dismantled, it would actually have happened that student aid would have fallen by 0.4% next year. We are now putting Finland in order, and our heartfelt wish is that when this is successful, we would soon have the economy in the condition that we could make the benefits, the benefits that need it most, including the level increases. Now this index will actually be good for students in the near future, because their student grants will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u152	Mr President! These negative indices are such an exception, which is due to this general bad economic situation. A fair way of dealing with this situation — especially if, as Mr Salmon did, there is apparently a concern about the income of students — would be a freeze. Why did the government not do this? Then the level of support would not fall, these savings would be the same, but when the economic situation improves, it would have made it possible for us to return to these index checks, that we will be able to continue to ensure that the real value of student money and the purchasing power of students are maintained and that this general change in living costs is followed. Why didn't you do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u153	Madam President! Indeed, it is important that the inequalities between upper secondary and higher education be reduced. But here the opposition was quite wrong to suggest that now, next year and the following year, the study hours will increase because of the fact that the index freeze is being carried out, when, in fact, there is no calculation of student aid through the reduction of the indexes, so that if the same level were to be maintained, then a separate freezing decision should have been taken. I think it is quite unreasonable to create such images when, even at worst, if that index starts biting somewhere, it is really not about the big money. Of course, in a long run, the student allowance may fall behind, but if the economic situation improves and Finland goes on to rise, there is certainly one thing that will then be considered,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u154	Once again, the replies from Mrs Kiuru, Mr Salmon and Mr Arhinmäki, then to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u155	Mr President! Yes, this is a really big matter of value choice, that is, you freeze several indices. But now that there is an opportunity to freeze the index, that too is not acceptable, but you wanted to ensure that the long-term perspective of study aid, long-term sustainability, is taken away. This is something I cannot understand: Why? Why did you make such a choice? If we do not have this debate in Parliament, it is absolutely incredible. And then I want to say from another point of view that I believe that Ben Zyskowicz will certainly be worth it. [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko :Enable others but give the speaker peace. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u158	Mr President! The government’s choice of values is that we fix Finland up, and in this work we have to make cuts and pinches from all over the place. But when I have a college boy, he's not interested in an index. He is interested in real purchasing power in student support, and it will improve next year and not weaken, as you claim here. This is the fact. We will stop borrowing in Finland. Our intention is to stop borrowing, but the Social Democrats and the Left are taking on more debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u162	Congressman Arhinmäki. — Let us then go back to the list of speakers for a moment and take a small debut at that next stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u163	Madam President! When the current student support system was created in 1992, student grant and student grant were not indexed. It meant that the student allowance and the student grant were always behind the general costs. It meant that when a 15% increase was finally made after the 2007 elections, the gap that had arisen was not even caught. In the long run, an index is needed to ensure that the level of student grant and student allowance does not fall behind unfailingly, and this is what is requested by the presentation. Then, if you become a minus sign, you freeze — that's what the government does in terms of income support, but all other benefits are now cut — but you don't leave a long tail like this, which is very hard to get fixed. Mr Kalmari, at least I did not say that this indexing is the one that takes away the opportunity to study.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u164	And then let's go to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u165	Mr President! Of course, I would have liked to have had a little more representatives in the Chamber, and in particular I would have liked it to have been from the direction of the government party, on an issue of such importance when we are still at this stage of the evening here today. Indeed, once again, these historic decisions are being taken in our series and there is absolutely no point in taking the situation for the better. This is a very sad day, as Mr Andersson has already said here, for student organisations, students and Finnish futures, education and knowledge. Mr President! Indeed, these government cuts to education and education are historical. Contrary to what the government is trying to claim, they do not create an environment where something better and more beautiful is creatively developed. In an already difficult and tight situation, total cuts of 3 billion will paralyse the Finnish education system. This line is once again being continued here today by cutting student aid. Student allowance and other study social benefits are covered by social security. They're not students' salaries. It's not a salary. Student support is the contribution of this society that everyone has the opportunity to invest in full-time learning regardless of the kind of family that comes from, the background that comes from, and whether parents can afford to support student studies. Student support is the focus of this society on the experts of the future, the focus on our young people having the opportunity to develop themselves and create something new, something better in Finland. Together with other cuts in education and training, the question arises: what kind of society do you want to build — well, there are not very many downtown Finns, Peruvians and National Coalitions? I have lived in the belief that every party wants to take care of opportunities. I, and certainly many others here, are disappointed that these objectives, namely high civilisation, good success and faith in the future, are not being adhered to. The Government's proposal cuts student financial aid and leaves it in its place as the other cost level rises. The level of student support is already low and it is lagging behind all other developments. Making a negative index change and then removing the whole index is a very unseeable policy for the government. This is wrong. We in the committee have heard a number of students, a number of organisations, a number of experts who not only find this regrettable, but also see that this affects students' study periods, and this affects, above all, whether all students have equal opportunities to study in Finland and in the future. If the son of the representative here did not necessarily know about these indices, then our student organisations are very familiar with what the indexes produce and with what impact it has on the standard of living of the students, which is indeed very low at the moment. The cuts in student support lead to an extension of study periods, as students increasingly work. This is totally against the government's own objectives and, in particular, it does not help to extend the working lives or to allow students to enter the labour market as quickly as possible, as we all hope to do here together. The option of social democrats is to support studies, support education and education. The Finnish option is to support studies and invest in one of our best competitiveness. That competitiveness is education and knowledge for all of us. Mr President! The honourable government and some honourable Members of Parliament! This proposal should not be adopted. Keep the student support index and give students at least that reasonable standard of living, at least that reasonable standard of living. And of course I support the very good counter-proposal from my colleague, Mr Gustafsson. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u166	Mr President! The Government has identified competence and education as one of the key projects. However, the training is cut and the student allowance is also in the cutter. No other basic benefit is planned for similar cuts. After years of fighting, the student movement gained a large gain in work when the student aid was tied to the index in 2014. Now the index is to be removed. The students had two years to enjoy it. In the future, therefore, even now, the level of low student support will fall as the overall cost level rises. The government's policy is clearly ideological, because if the aim is to save money during this government term or to prevent the level of support from falling as the index becomes negative, why not just freeze the index, as has already been mentioned here? Why should indexation be completely eliminated, which in the long term leads to a decrease in the real value of student support? I believe that this proposal is about a broader objective of scrapping the support system based on student money. The promises made by the representatives of the city centre about future increases in the level of student support seem very disbeliefful when it is known that the Minister of Education has told us about further plans, about cutting the level of student support by about 20%, and about making the student money more loan-oriented. In many ways, the loan-oriented nature of student money is problematic. Many older people recall their past when students lived on a loan. Looking back, however, does not provide a basis for today’s and the future’s problems. In the past, higher education very often meant secure employment in well-paid jobs and inflation ate off loans, but now even high education does not guarantee jobs and inflation rates are low. The ability to repay a loan today is not a matter of course for young people. Borrowing is particularly important for the education of children in deprived families. When you have to take out a loan for your studies, you feel that your studies are too risky to invest. Many families no longer believe that education is worthwhile. Finland is in danger of losing the skills potential of many talented young people if this happens. At the same time, however, efforts are being made to shorten study periods. The objective is inconsistent with the reduction of student allowance. When the student allowance is too small, young people who do not live on loan money are forced to look for work. The student has to choose whether to work alongside the studies and to slow down the graduation process or to concentrate fully on studying, and then have to take out a loan. Many prefer to work, even though it means a slower graduation because people do not want to take out a loan. The possibility of full-time learning is a prerequisite for a quick graduation. Students are the only population group whose basic income depends on the loan. Economically, it is more profitable to be unemployed than a student. This is a fact. They're sending a message to the kids that studying isn't worth it. Cutting student support will only make the incentive traps that already exist worse. Mr President! Students and the student movement are tired of continuing changes to student support, which are also responsible for the previous governments. Almost every year class studies on the basis of different support criteria. It is strange that, by constantly changing the criteria for support for this very small basic benefit, the aim is to speed up studies, when to solve the sustainability gap, when to prevent supposed laziness. This is pushing a string, and you can't push a string. In order to shorten study periods, the employment situation, quality guidance for studies and study social services are essential, as well as the opportunity to focus on full-time studies. Mr President! The plans of the Board of Directors for the indexation of the already small student aid cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u167	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I originally asked to speak in this debate to hold a debate on constitutional law, but a few words to begin with about this abolition of the study aid index as such a matter of substance. Representative Aalto asked me demanding questions but unfortunately had to leave before I could answer, but I can answer to him and to others that I am not going to participate in this auction at all in terms of the level of student support and the need to increase it. On the contrary, during the last parliamentary term, when this index was decided, I remember being the only one who questioned the soundness of that decision in that debate. I then asked whether we here — I meant in Parliament — where this country is going economically, and here we just — I am referring to the last parliamentary term — are adding various social benefits, and on top of that everything, about all the parties, is demanding that more should be done. I personally believe that we have the world's most generous student support system in Finland, and I certainly see no need to improve it in such a difficult economic situation, and of course I accept the various necessary savings in this regard as well. Interesting in itself — and I am not going any further now — was, and has been, the fact that, for example, the far left does not accept that the income of parents would have any effect on the support the student receives from the society. I, on the other hand, am a man of such an old union that I think that if we were to give the children of the rich less financial aid, there might be even more to give to those students who really need it. I know all these universal principles and other objections, but when a Member of Parliament told me that he was studying, it is good that all of us here are concerned that the children of parliamentarians will certainly receive money from taxpayers' money instead of those who live on the incomes of a Member of Parliament, who will certainly have enough money to support their own children, even if they were 18 years old, would have a responsibility and a responsibility for the well-earned and, in particular, high-income people, even if they were 18 years old. But I know that this is very old-fashioned talk, because of course there is a cry here that everyone should have the student money paid by society and taxpayers, and certainly not the income of parents should, of course, have any effect. I am so old-fashioned that even though I have a child who has been 30 years old, because he is a full-time student, so he is financially supported and I think that in a practical living life this is what you all do. But let's go to that constitution. In the past, I have criticised the strict interpretations of the Constitutional Committee and also the experts that the Constitutional Committee regularly listens to. Now, in this study-support opinion, the Constitutional Committee has only listened to two experts from the constitutional side, and they are not among the most consulted, so at this stage I cannot have these constitutional experts in my line of fire, rather to look, of course, at the direction of the chairmen and members of the committee, but in this case I would also like to look very directly at the direction of committee advisers. What's going on? It is a question of the fact that, in its opinion of the Constitutional Committee, it writes — which is a fact — that it considers that the economic importance of the abolition of indexation at individual level is not very significant given the estimates of the expected development of the index over the next few years. Well, this is real. The committee then writes this, unanimously: in the view of the committee, the proposal does not, therefore, mean a weakening of the level of implementation of fundamental rights which would become constitutionally problematic. In other words, we can read that if we had a higher rate of inflation to expect in the coming years or if the government had proposed, for example, a 5% cut in student money, or if the government had suggested that it would have proposed that it would have — now saving some 20 million annually in 19 and saving another 50 million euros — this would have created constitutional problems in the light of this unanimous opinion of the Constitutional Committee. I do not approve of this thinking at all. We do not have such a constitution in force — at least I have not been in the process of enacting it, and I have been in the process of establishing a valid constitution — in which we would have nailed, for example, the current level of study grant to the level protected by the Constitution, either in terms of cultural fundamental rights, I think, Section 16, or in terms of fundamental social rights, Article 19. On the contrary, when the fundamental rights reform was carried out, the government's proposal and the examination of the Constitutional Committee stated that "social security is planned and developed in accordance with the economic resources of society and that the state of the economy and public finances can be taken into account when measuring benefits that are directly financed by the public authorities". In my opinion, this is a complete foregone conclusion. And the fact that we are now in 2015, twenty years after the fundamental rights reform was carried out, with the statements of the Constitutional Committee, we are beginning to nail down the existing levels of benefit and, in this way, we are implying that if there is a slightly more significant change than the index freeze in low inflation is now going into constitutional problems, I find it completely incomprehensible and not based on our constitution and not on its presentations. I would therefore like to say that, when we talk about cultural rights in Article 16, when we have access to a student loan, the student loan itself makes it possible to study very modest, poor conditions as far as brains are concerned and the will to study is sufficient. And this is exactly what has happened in this country. They said you shouldn't look back. But I would like to say that when the young age groups came to colleges in the late '60s, there was no student grant, there was a student loan, and the student grant came in the early '70s, as I recall, so that the children of the poorest families could receive the study grant. At that time, no one was able to demand that the children of the MPs also receive student money, as today the far left and everyone else in this Chamber do. These representatives of the large age groups, tens of thousands who came out of poor conditions, studied as Masters and Doctors with this student loan, and it fulfilled cultural rights. Everyone has the opportunity to study as far as brains are available, regardless of their own or their parents’ income and wealth. At the moment, I believe there is a proposal in the Constitutional Committee to delete the index of child supplements. If we continue along these lines, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs next states that, well, when there is low inflation, the indexes can be removed from the child supplement, but constitutional problems will arise if inflation is faster. This is an entirely intolerable idea that the very levels of social benefits that we happen to have today in 2015 would somehow have been nailed to the minimum level in the Constitution, which must be no matter where the economy of this country is going — even if it is going into the pine, as it is right now. Finally, I believe that our views on this constitutional issue are so different when you here, above all, look at it in the light of the multi-annual struggle and the multi-annual demands of these students and the student movement, that I will not enter into this debate any longer, but I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the experts consulted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will, however, quote this criticism which has now been put forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u168	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's thinking out loud was interesting in itself. There has now been a doctor of law, professor Liisa Nieminen and professor Veli-Pekka Viljanen. I've listened to Professor Grain several times. I appreciate him far more as a constitutional expert than Mr Zyskowicz. However, Mr Zyskowicz is, of course, entitled to express his views and, once I have not been able to get to know these expert opinions, I am not going to go into legal wisdom here either. However, at this point, which Mr Zyskowicz raised, we are talking about fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u169	If we now allow a reply to Mrs Taavitsainen and then go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u170	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, taxation is the best way to balance income differences, and we also get the parents of that somewhat richer family to contribute to the cost of this study aid. There has also been reference here today to the fact that this current government is cutting in order to reduce borrowing, and so on. That is not true. This is not the image to be given, for this yellow book here contains more debt-taking than last year's government has taken on debt. But this government divides this debt according to its own values, for example by lowering the car tax or by doing other policies that support such a slightly richer person, i.e. politics is value choices. I don't like people being allowed to understand,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u171	Let's move on to the list of speakers, Mr. Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u172	Mr President! I was elected to the Parliament directly from the university, so I have a fresh memory of what it's like to live as a student and what it's like to live with a little student support. The Government proposes that the student grant should no longer be increased on the basis of the national pension index. In addition, the government is bringing further weakenings to student support this period. After a long working period, students received an index-linked relationship in 2014, i.e. last year. There are also many representatives in this Chamber who have been calling for this in the demonstrations. The result is that the students in practice received two increases before the current government ceases to be index-linked. It's a small amount of money for the government, but it's a lot of money if the food cabinet screams its emptiness. These increases have been paid for noodles, tofu, tuna for a day or two. Do students now have to fast a few days a month, or what is the government’s vision? The level of student support is excessively low. Partly that's why most of the students work. If the student allowance is allowed to decline, an increasing number of students will have to resort to hard work instead of studying. This will slow down the transition to working life. I, on the other hand, thought that the goal of the government was for students to move faster to work. I'm probably wrong. I have to say that, in the long term, aid for students with reduced purchasing power may mean that only the children of the rich have the opportunity to continue their studies. I hope we don't go back to these 60s. I have to say, Your Honor, students have a memory. Now at least no student has to guess who is on the student's side, who is against the student. My dear government, think once more. At present, inflation is so low that this will not be a major cost to the state in the coming years. The only question is that the government wants to make a little trouble for students. The problem is, over the years, this little temptation becomes a big one. Government, why don't we try to get the students to study? Wouldn't that be in everyone's best interest? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u173	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr Zyskowicz, I too am an old union man, but from a slightly different point of view apparently. I support the independence of young people, their opportunities and, in particular, their own responsibility, regardless of the situation of parents. I see it as important that society makes it possible and supports the building of a good life, and that is what this study grant, which is, however, quite marginal money, is what everyone here understands. Mr President! This student allowance law should be completely reformed in order to treat all students equally, as well as students who study in different courses on an equal basis. Current law ignores the number of dependants. For example, if there is a large family with a large number of children, even if parents have a decent income, then the student’s student’s student’s student’s study allowance will be very small, because it only takes into account the income of the parents but ignores the fact that they have eight dependants. That's a big shortcoming here. Moreover, the combination of study and family life is not sufficiently taken into account in the current law. Families now studying live below the poverty line, many of them. They are expected to increase their study debts in full, and income support is not easily granted to them. Even if all the debt is raised, the income level will be very low. They are the poorest of the poor in our country. The income thresholds for family members should be raised or preferably abolished in full so that it is possible to raise the standard of living by working. The student allowance should also receive a child increase. These improvements would be of many benefits. Many family members would have the opportunity to finish their studies for the sake of the family. More people today could start a family during their studies, making it easier for young women to enter the labour market. This would have an impact on equality. The change would probably be quite cost-neutral, as the use of earnings-related parental benefits could be reduced if more people started a family during their studies. Families would be more likely to have the number of children they wanted when the family was founded at the optimal age, which means that even this age structure could be corrected. There's a lot of sides to this. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with this objection which is here. I do not think this is the kind of place where it is wise to save money. And as far as parenting is concerned, Mr Zyskowicz, it is quite normal for parents, even if they do not have a penny of money, to try to support their children from scratch, if they really love their children, whatever the level of income. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u174	Mr President! There are changes to study aid, most of which are also positive according to the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Culture. The only disagreement in this Government proposal concerns the indexational nature of student aid. By removing the link between student aid and the index, the government is actually preventing the decline of student aid in the poor economic situation in our country. If the student grant were still tied to the National Pensions Index next year, the level of the student grant would fall by an estimated 0.4 per cent, and the index will continue to be negative or close to zero. In the short term, the demands of the opposition would therefore be contrary to the interests of the students. However, in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have unanimously stated that it is possible and worthwhile to come back to this when the economic situation improves. Thus, when drawing up annual budget proposals, the possibility of linking student aid to the index can always be re-assessed. However, it is also necessary to ask which index form is best for the development of the level of support in terms of student support, so that the student's income does not deteriorate, as would have been the case now without the government's proposal. The members of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, representing both the government and the opposition, agreed that the index is to be assessed in the future as the most appropriate to maintain the real value and purchasing power of student money. Mr President! The possibility of secondary school students aged 18 and 19 living independently will be improved by increasing the income limits of parents by 13%. In the future, however, these parental income limits must be brought fully into history in order to achieve equality among students regardless of age. In the future, we must also get rid of the complex social security system as a whole and, in the case of students too, we must move towards a simple basic income that genuinely secures and encourages income. In the future, Finns must have better opportunities to study full-time as well as to combine work with family. Mr President! The Government will continue to ensure that Finns receive as one of the few peoples, if not the only people in the world, a secondary degree and a free university degree as well as a livelihood during their studies. All Finns must have this right regardless of their family background and place of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u175	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Studying any young person must not depend on wealth. I believe that most Finns feel this way. The Government's proposal to amend the Student Aid Act does not support this. I do not think it is right to cut student aid, and I think it is a bad idea to increase the focus on loans. During their studies, the student is entitled to a reasonable level of living and living. The publication of OKM last year states that 61% of university students find it difficult to make ends meet. Student support should be reformed so that it becomes as simple and as equal a system as possible. For example, taking older income into account for secondary students is a highly unequal measure. Studying is a work-like activity that benefits both individuals and society and is an investment in the future. It is fully justified to support it. It can be clearly demonstrated that the subsidised training of the population will soon pay off itself in terms of greater innovation and improved productivity. Today we discussed the reform of social welfare and health care for several hours. This is also linked to education, as less educated people have, on average, less knowledge of their own health and the factors affecting it. If living conditions are harsh, many practical concerns of everyday life, such as food supply, bypass active and careful self-preservation and, as part of it, the use of adequate health services. A prescription does not help students if they are hungry or do not have the money for the medicines they need. The student allowance must consist of student grant, housing allowance and voluntary student loan. Both the student allowance and the amount of the loan must be linked to the cost index so that their levels do not fall behind the overall increase in cost levels. We also need to create a new common housing allowance system that takes account of geographical differences and costs. The cuts in the name of savings for children and young people will increase the inequality of Finns. This reflects a very cold world of values for our children and young people, who are the very ones to whom we should give a solid basis for our efforts to live. The livelihood and well-being of students is a matter for society as a whole. Tomorrow will grow today, as Kalevi Sorsa once wisely said. Unfortunately, the government has forgotten this wisdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u176	Mr President! A few comments to Mr Jarva so that there are no misunderstandings. This amendment to the opposition speaks of an increase in student money according to the index, i.e. the opposition does not want to carry out negative index checks. It is also true that the committee's report has stated that it is good to assess which index would be the best for student money. But this government proposal here is that no index would be the best, and it certainly does not reflect the committee's common position. Let me repeat once again that the fair option here would be to freeze the study aid index, which would have the same effect on the level of study grant in the short term. These short-term savings would be the same, but the long-term effects would be that we would still be able to ensure that the real value of student money does not fall. There is already experience in previous years: for example, from 1992 to 2007 the absence of this indexation meant that one-fifth of the purchasing power of student money was lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u177	Mr President! In response or in response to Mr Andersson's speech: Indeed, this disagreement concerns this deletion of the index. But it was indeed unanimous in the Committee on Education that we need to look at what is the correct index, because we do not know how long this economic situation will continue. And if this deletion had not been made, this support would indeed have been reduced for students. This is not the level of aid that we are dealing with here. In the future, as I said in the previous speech, we must get rid of this complex system. This has also become a wish for student organisations. This is where we need to move in such a direction that we do not have to make that effort. I myself have been chairman of a student association for the last ten years, raising the student allowance and the housing allowance. This is still going on and on, and this whole system needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u178	In short, to Mr Jarva: I do not know which student association you are referring to or what complexity you are referring to, but no student organisation is in favour of de-indexation in terms of student funding. No such thing has been presented anywhere. I also regret that, with this government proposal, we are now returning to a situation in which, in the worst case scenario, student organisations are faced with this struggle for many years to re-establish support for the index, that is to say, once again to a situation in which this level of study grant even follows the rise in living costs. What we should really be talking about if we wanted to move forward on this is how we can achieve an overall improvement in the level of student money and support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u179	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u180	Mr President! Unfortunately, this government proposal is another line of action on how the government weakens the life situation of the most low-income people and how the government weakens student support and thus makes it even more difficult for students to study full-time. The objective of adequate student support is to enable full-time learning and to enable studies to be completed within the target period. This is an important objective, which should be the basis for everything, for all studies and for the development of student support. Unfortunately, this objective is not being applied for by the government. In addition to their studies, students work a lot to cope with basic daily expenses such as food, rent, study supplies, clothing, cleanliness supplies and so on, i.e. just the usual basic expenses that belong to each of us. Now, however, the government does not support full-time students' studies, nor does it allow them to cope with all basic daily expenses. We know that income problems have a strong impact on the progress of studies. We also know that sufficient income would reduce the psychological pressure and also economic survival, thereby supporting the student's management of the entire life situation and also the progress of the students in the target period. This also poses a risk to mental health problems, and the unfortunate fact is that students’ mental health problems and anxiety have increased in student health care. In this connection, I would also like to remind you of the situation of family students. They live below the poverty line, and in other Nordic countries, family students have, among other things, a guardian raise, but this is not the case in Finland. I believe that the earning limit for family students should be raised, which would make it easier to reconcile family and study.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u181	Mr President! Reference has been made here to the Government negotiations held earlier in spring 2011 and to the achievements that were achieved even in the difficult economic situation at that time in the Government Programme. Commitments were received for raising basic security, commitments were received for the elimination of the needs test for labour market support and decisions were taken to bind the study aid index as the only element of basic security that had not included indexation. All the parties then proudly and joyfully accepted the thanks of the student organisations for this historic approach. But now the situation is changing and it seems very sad that the bourgeois government of Sipilä is not only freezing these index increases but is making a permanent removal. This is a sad day for Finnish students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u182	Mr President! I have been rather confused about this debate on study aid here today. I would like to say the following to Mr Jarva, when the people who used other arguments of this kind are no longer here, but more than one of the representatives of the government party put forward the idea that the abolition of the index would somehow be in the interests of students, to save students from poverty. Students aren't stupid. Fortunately, for the time being, the education system is in such a condition that students are able to count. Students also have a pretty strong social policy competence. Although you may be able to fool yourself, I don't think you can fool the students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u183	Mr President! In fact, a lot of years of dealing with these issues and acting as a student organisation, there has been a strong view that we should move forward with this system, and I know that the present student organisations have also become supportive of the fact that this current system is too complex. For example, basic income could be the answer. That's what I was referring to when I was talking about student organizations. Then from this index: I do not know how the opposition would justify it if next year the real student financial aid, which comes to the student's account, would have fallen as a result of this if this index had remained unchanged. Yeah, I don't know, it might have been something to explain.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u184	Mr President! It makes me feel a little stupid when I repeat myself, but I repeat that the opposition's alternative was not to carry out negative index checks, but to freeze the index, so that it does not affect the level of student support. Such an option would have been entirely feasible had the government so wished. Instead, the Government decided to permanently remove student aid from the index, which means that in the long term this will be very problematic as regards the real value and purchasing power development of student money. Well, even students know that well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u185	Mr President! I understand that this argument is being frozen, but then Mr Andersson, as well as all the other members of the opposition in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, felt that this current form of index is questionable and that this is precisely the risk that this real student support will be reduced to students, and that is why we should look later at which index form is correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u186	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u187	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Several contributions were made to this government proposal during the referral debate and at first reading. At this second reading, I would simply like to raise this objection. "We have signed a proposal from the Government We are concerned about the development of the rail network as a whole and about new investments in the future. The Government's proposal leaves open questions on the charging criteria for the network, on the maintenance and use of terminals and private tracks, and on the administrative burden of the provision of different railway services through accounting separation." "The Government’s proposal is supported by further detailed In an open competitive environment, the proper transmission of costs to transport performances and the consumption of infrastructure must be taken into account in terms of market economy and pass on costs to users. From the point of view of the transport network and competitiveness of the country, it is important to steer the rail market in an efficient and sustainable manner. The railway network should be managed in an integrated manner, taking account of the needs of the different operators and making sense both to the person and to the freight sector." "Railway traffic will be freed even in thepart The Government is investigating passenger traffic even more quickly. Some of the lines could open up to market-based traffic already in 2016. For the future of Finnish rail transport, it would be of paramount importance that the drafting of the legislation as a whole be carried out with care and without haste. In other European countries, we have seen the downsides of rail competition when traffic is divided into profitable and unprofitable sections of the track, increasing the costs of rail transport and stopping the development of the network." On the basis of the above, the proposal is rejected, and this objection has been signed in committee by the Social Democrats, the Left and the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u188	Mr President! I support Mrs Taimela's objection to the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u189	Mr President! This proposal follows on from the initiative of the previous government in this matter. In practice, this is a technical change that harmonises the activities of this sector in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u190	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u191	Mr President! The government is proposing to abolish the dietary allowance from the beginning of next year. By decision, the government treats one group of diseases unequally compared to others and assigns the cost of celiac disease treatment to patients. The Government's objective is to save money for next year's budget and the existing spending limits period. It is sad and truly regrettable how incorrectly this proposal has been taken forward. Celiaki has been compared to food allergies, which is certainly not the case. Celiac disease is an incurable autoimmune disease that does not have medical treatment, but whose only treatment is a strict gluten-free diet prescribed by your doctor. Celiac disease belongs to the same group of autoimmune diseases as rheumatism, ms-disease, Crohn’s disease and type 1 diabetes. These diseases are covered by Kela’s medical compensation, but they are not. People with coeliac disease have received a dietary allowance because the only treatment for the disease is an absolute gluten-free diet. There are no medicines for treating the disease, the compensation has covered about 35% of the additional cost of food. I am also very surprised that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has suggested that people with celiac disease could eat something else if they cannot afford gluten-free food. It has also been thrown out that it is bread and pasta. However, this is not the case. The compensation has been questioned even on the grounds that it would not be possible to check whether a person is using it specifically for the purchase of gluten-free food. All this discussion is truly amazing. Removing the compensation reduces the therapeutic motivation of celiacs and their ability to follow a gluten-free diet. We know that untreated celiac disease causes many other diseases, such as osteoporosis, joint diseases, depression, and even cancer of the small intestine. These in turn increase visits to doctors, various studies, the use of medicines and absenteeism. My great concern is for the elderly, low-income people and students, the unemployed, the long-term ill, with high medical costs. The government is targeting them with a wide range of cuts and increases in service charges, which make it difficult for them to cope with everyday matters. For them, celiac pay has been very important in many respects. The Government's proposal to abolish the dietary allowance contradicts health and well-being objectives. Mr President! For this reason, I object to the draft law 2. rejection of the law. This means that the dietary allowance is maintained. Mr President! There are also two other laws in the law, one of which deals with the increase in national pension and guarantee pension. Mr President, the government intends to freeze the national pension and consumer price indices for 2017-2019 and leave the benefits at this lower level. According to the forecast, the level of guarantee pension will fall by 4.7 per cent this year compared to the implementation of index changes. This means that the guarantee pension will be EUR 11.90 lower than it would be indexed in 2019. Mr President! For this reason, I would also like to make a statement: "The government requires that temporary legislation be prepared by the government which does not allow benefits linked to the national pension and consumer price index to be calculated according to the index in 2016, so that the increase in the guarantee pension would also benefit pensioners in full."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u192	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mrs Kiljune.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u193	Mr President! The members of the committee have taken a thorough look at this question. I have not had so much information about this before, but a week and a half ago I was on a speaking trip to Varsinais-Suomi and made a rather long taxi trip there and the taxi driver was the chairman of the Southwest Finland Regional Celiac Patients' Association, as I recall, and he told me about the situation during the taxi trip during which these celiac patients are in a difficult position. He told us that one crumb of the wrong diet can take up a few weeks at a time, for example. So, as Mr Kiljunen has pointed out here, there is a great deal of false, inappropriate, disparaging information about this. The problem is very serious and it is very important to maintain this compensation for these patients and those with celiac disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u194	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen made a very good proposal because this abolition of the coeliac allowance is a very short-sighted austerity policy for the government. There is no justification for this — at least not for the arguments that would stand up to the light of day. This has become numerous contacts with people who have to live on a gluten-free diet every day — every day — that is known to be considerably more expensive than a normal diet. And now, indeed, this absurd government surgery is directed at those for whom that gluten - free diet is the only medical treatment for the disease, celiac disease. It is also known in the light of the studies that this kind of untreated coeliac disease becomes really expensive for society. There are many associated diseases and these have not been taken into account at all. It must also be said that the government is making a austerity policy and does not carry out any impact assessments, even though these assessments have already been carried out, so that it is sufficient to read these studies that have already been carried out. The conclusion may be that this removal of the celiac allowance must be cancelled. It was also a difficult economic time during the last term of government, but at that time this allowance for coeliac disease was even increased. I hope this is the hall where the greetings go to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u195	Mr President! There are a lot of clarifications here regarding coeliac disease. Celiac disease is such a disease for which diet is the only medicine, and somehow it seems to me to be a repulsive and bad idea that such a remedy like this will be taken away. I think Mr Kiljunen made a good proposal and I support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u196	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u197	Mr President! I'm doing a rejection show. Did you have to do it out of the toilet? Is there any way to make a seat? [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen :Can be made from his seat. Within two minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u200	Mr President! Studies have been carried out in Finland on the life expectancy of hard-working and low-paid workers who have worked for a long career: the life expectancy of these benchmarks is low, and then it knows that these pension funds, what they have acquired, have worked, will then be transferred to well-earned pensions. In that sense, I support Mrs Anna Kontula's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u201	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u202	Mr President! The amendments to the Automotive Tax Act and the Vehicle Tax Act have been submitted to the same government proposal. They are both fiscal tax changes, and the report has also stated that they are factually unrelated, but they are part of this government's proposal for a transport policy which, if there is to be, is likely to be a separate tax on boats and other vehicles and a proposal for a heavy-duty road user charge. But there is a connection, because in this situation the government wants to give with one hand and the other it wants to take. The reduction in the car tax will result in tax losses of approximately EUR 200 million per year in 2019 and, on the other hand, an increase in the vehicle tax will be applied for from the beginning of 2017 to increase the tax revenues of approximately EUR 100 million. In practice, this means that when we have a fleet of approximately 110000 cars a year, people who can afford to go to the car shop and buy a new car will benefit from this reduction in car tax of between EUR 0 and EUR 470 when they buy a car, but everyone else, some 2.5 million other car owners, will suffer annually from this increase in vehicle tax since 2017. Now that there are no Finns here, I would particularly like to say to them that those who today, in these difficult times, can afford to go and buy a brand-new car, now they will be rewarded and those men and women from the forests and villages and provinces who ride with their old datsunes and volks, then there will be constant punishment here. The car tax itself is structurally, as the report also states, properly constructed, and this environmental impact is significant. While on the other hand it is a fiscal tax, of course it is aimed at favouring low-emission cars, medium-emission cars. In that sense, it's all right. Mr President! I was confused at first reading and I was hasty about the wreckage proposal, but fortunately, the President did a bit of good work at the time, thank you for that. However, in response to this objection — because in the first reading we are trying to prevent the tightening of this car tax by rejecting this tax table — now that we are in second reading, I propose that the bill on car tax be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u203	Mr President! Mr Uotila gave a very good reason for this matter of car tax, and I support his proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u204	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are dealing with this motion for a reduction in car tax, which was discussed here at the first reading of the legislative proposals. I told you at the time that the position of the SDP here is that, in these times, when we are living in reasonably tight economic times and we have to make a rather narrow policy many times, we have felt that, in this situation, the government should give up part of the discount on car tax and use this money to secure, among other things, VR's purchasing services in the provinces. Much was said about this situation in the provinces and the abolition of train services, the issue of the provinces, among other things, in yesterday's debate on the mid-term issue, and, of course, this issue is also on the table here when we are talking about a reduction in car tax. President! We also had an amendment to this paragraph, which would have secured this particular proposal, but we all know that it was then rejected here in the vote, and that is why, at this second reading here in Parliament, we would like to make a further contribution to this car tax and vehicle tax. We have assumed that in these times, when it is tough, we are not suggesting that the vehicle tax should not be increased, but we all know that there are the unfortunate aspects of the vehicle tax, that it is an equal tax for everyone, and many times in the provinces, for example, when the car is forced to use, these increases always sting on the vehicle tax side. It's a mistake, and we know that. But our presentation was indeed based on the fact that part of this car tax could have been cancelled and used for public transport connections. But now, President-in-Office, this is what I am saying to the House: 'The Parliament requires that the government examine the effects of its proposals on car tax and vehicle tax and take the necessary action in the event of irregularities.'
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u205	Mr President! As far as tax policy is concerned, here in the last parliamentary term, when no other reforms were made, you did blackmail me completely. This reduction in car tax has also been distributed here for a number of good purposes. That will be reduced by only EUR 50 million a year gradually over four years. At the same time, the vehicle tax will increase by EUR 100 million. After all, this is where taxation has a dynamic effect: this increases the sales of cars, and when the car fleet is reformed, it is good for the environment. And then perhaps there is also this car scrapping premium experiment, which this government and Parliament now increased by 5 million. It has clearly reformed the car fleet and has also been positive for central government finances, according to studies. This is a very moderate issue for tax purposes, and there are good objectives here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u206	Mr President! It has been precisely in this debate that, when we are living in scarce times and we have to make value choices, we have started out that, in this situation too often, it seems that money is quite easy to find, 200 million during this parliamentary term, to reduce the car tax, while, at the same time, scarcity is being distributed to pensioners, unemployed people and families with children, for many important purposes. That is why we want to present it, and we have tabled and voted for part of this reduction in car tax, the reduction, to be cancelled and spent on it, for example, to secure public transport connections throughout Finland in the provinces. That was our presentation, and we see this as a sort of value choice, and that is why we have had a debate on this subject on quite a number of occasions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u207	I, too, see it as a value choice that good environmental decisions are made. I see that when the vehicle tax increases immediately by EUR 100 million and this reduction in the car tax gradually takes place and this has a clearly dynamic effect, Mr President, this is a positive whole for the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u208	The maximum amount of this mini-debat will be achieved when Mr Viitanen responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u209	Thank you, Mr President. However, I would say to Mr Ala-Nissila that, when you look at this increase in vehicle tax, it is not because there is a terrible dynamic effect on the wallet of the person who, although there is a lot of car use and then a rising vehicle tax, is going to have to pay, and that is why we also want to pay attention to this anomaly. If Mr Ala-Nissila agrees that this is not, after all, a fair tax in the sense that everyone pays the same and those who cannot afford new cars still pay the increased vehicle tax, then you could very well support this proposal, in which the government would explain the income distribution effect of these two proposals. And when faults arise, then action would be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u210	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u211	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissila made an excellent speech here. I fully agree that a reduction in the car tax is merely a positive measure and has only positive effects on the economy of the country. In Finland, car taxation is quite high, and it is already a good time to address it. In his own speech, Mr Uotila raised the people of the provinces and the people who drive there in the old words of Mr Uotila in the datsuns and others. I wonder whether Mr Uotila does not find it positive that now, through this tax reduction, these people will also be cheaper to renew their own fleet of cars, not necessarily to drive that old Datsun, but to get that new car from the car shop. I see that this certainly does not do any wonders, this is such a small tax reduction, but it will stimulate the car trade. I am surprised that the opposition is not now able to see these positive effects on the environment that this will lead to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u212	Mr President! It is very good that the men and women of the provinces are also able to renew and replace their cars with less emission and with the latest ones. But in these sad times, I am concerned that when so many people are unemployed, they have to live on basic security, so is it really possible to go to that car store and buy 20,000, 25,000, 30,000 euros. I am afraid that, in these sad times, a rather small proportion of the men and women in the provinces have this practical opportunity to go for the maximum benefit of just over EUR 400.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u213	Now we move on to the list, and I hope that this will be the way to ask for the rest of the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u214	Mr President! I support Mr Viitane's proposal for a boost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u215	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Why such a confrontation? Why such a confrontation? A few weeks ago, I made a constructive proposal in this Chamber about whether we could not, in this situation — we have had a lot of debate on transport policy, we have a large country, long distances — make sure that yes, this reduction in car tax is carried out, but also that public transport that takes Finns east, north, west and cross-border in this country is secured. In view of how this can be done, yes, a medium-emission car with a price of EUR 32000 will be taxed this year at EUR 6660 and next year, according to the VM, the tax would be EUR 6380 after this tax reduction. It means about 280 euros per this kind of average emission 32,000 euros car. If this tax were to be given this EUR 200 car tax reduction and then spent this EUR 80 on public transport, we could use this model to save all, that is to say, all the rail links which yesterday were the subject of a rather ghastly debate in this Chamber in all those regions, North, East, Central, Western and Southern Finland. Somehow it seems strange that only one group of people — that is to say those who have the opportunity to buy a low-emission car of more than EUR 30000 — has now been sought in this country. I am a guest of such a confrontation, and I believe that this would be not only fair but also just in terms of regional policy and also sustainable in terms of the environment. In a way, it could be said that if Parliament made such a compromise, it would certainly be a real jackpot for Finland, Finland and the regions, and on that basis, too, I support this proposal by Mrs Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u216	Mr President! Mr Feldt-Ranta said that confrontation should be avoided. I agree. But, unfortunately, the representative himself is guilty of confrontation here by putting this car tax down and the transport links between the provinces. This is by no means the case. As evidenced by the government's response to the opposition's intermediate question, the government will also secure these links in the provinces by the means at its disposal. To Mr Uotila, on the other hand, you are quite right that certainly not everyone will have the chance in the future to get a new car. But with the reduction of the car tax, an increasing number of people will then have the opportunity, and I personally only see it as a positive thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u217	Mr President! The representative to Kärnä is enough for me to come from the province. I come from a place where there is structural unemployment, where the unemployment rate is between 17% and 18%. There, about a thousand of those unemployed are at a lower level of unemployment security, and with this labour market support they will be able to cope. They're long-term unemployed. When you think about their children and those who go to study — there is a great deal of studying there in Joensuu, and their train connections will be cut off by a government decision in the near future — they cannot afford to buy that new car. In that sense I feel bad about this kind of tax relief, which is clearly targeted at richer and well-earned incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u218	Mr President! In fact, I would also like to say that, when much is said about this environmental friendliness, as we have just heard here, what is also the environmental issue, if the government is now acting in such a way that it is abolishing public transport services, train services in the provinces. It is very ecological to use the tracks, to move on the train, and I can see that this is also an environmental issue to a great extent, not to mention that we do in Pirkanmaa, for example, when we took the morning train from Mänttä-Vilppula to Tampere and talked to people there, everyone was very shocked that why they were taking the train from under. That is why we have proposed in our own option that part of this reduction in the car tax be withdrawn and also used to maintain very environmentally friendly rail transport. I think that this was an excellent point made by Mrs Feldt-Ranta, which is precisely the point that it is not worth putting things against each other at all, and I am also in favour of this thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u219	Mr President! I wanted to ask for the floor again when Mr Kärnä, Mr Enontekio, I understand, is putting drivers against public transport in a way. I spent the weekend in Lapland on a business trip and meeting in Sodankylä. There I met a wide range of people from Lapland: East Lapland, Meri-Lap, North Lapland, Rovaniemi and so on. The main concern — think about it, there are huge cuts and social reform in this country, and there were huge acts of terror in Paris — what the Lapps had — was that Lapland was becoming a baget, a great concern about the night train traffic in Rovaniemi and Kolari, perhaps airport traffic with the next trigger. I would like you, Mr Kärnä, not only to be on the side of motorists — for which you have all the honour — not to forget that public transport is in the interests of sparsely populated Lapland and other sparsely populated areas, that it works in Finland. In that case, it is very shortsighted to subdue it. We have put forward a very constructive alternative which would provide balanced support for both modes of transport. It would be hoped that support could be found in Parliament in such a way as to ensure that Finland, which is a sparsely populated country with long distances, can continue to be a country in which the whole country is kept inhabited. And I believe and hope, on behalf of the Lapps, that you will also be presenting this message here in Parliament, Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u220	Mr President! Mrs Feldt-Ranta made a very good speech here, and it is, of course, quite clear that there is also concern about this public transport in Lapland. Unfortunately, public transport in Lapland as a whole has already been driven down by previous governments. For example, at the Enontekio, if I go, for example. From Leppäjärvi to Heta village, it takes me a week to get back there 40 kilometres if I try to use public transport, and that is why driving is very important there, and it is unfortunately often synonymous with unemployment in Lapland. I am, of course, concerned about the traffic arrangements in Lapland, and I hope that this can be carried forward beyond the Government-Opposition boundaries, but I also believe in it and I am convinced that the country's sitting government will now, by all means available, ensure the preservation of public transport throughout the country, including in remote and sparsely populated areas, to the extent possible. Of course, the issue of air transport raised by Mrs Feldt-Santa is another issue, and its development is extremely important for our northern regions, of course, for local mobility and also for the development of tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u221	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u222	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u223	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u224	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u225	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u226	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u227	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u228	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u229	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u230	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u231	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u232	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u233	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u234	For table setting, the 22nd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u235	For table setting, the 23rd item will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u236	The 24th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u237	The 25th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u238	The 26th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u239	The 27th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u240	For table setting, the 28th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-18-ps-66.u241	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2015.
