ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u1	The second item on the agenda is the topical debate on foreign policy. The topical debate will be opened by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä. Mr Soini, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr Kaikkonen, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will make the following contributions. There will then be one round of group speeches with a maximum of 5 minutes. Other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 5 minutes. I will give the floor in the order that I consider. In addition, I will, at my discretion, give one minute's answer. Prime Minister Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u2	Madam President! According to our Government Programme, the goal of foreign and security policy is to strengthen Finland's international position, secure the independence and territorial integrity of our country and improve the safety and well-being of Finns. In addition, Finland promotes international stability, peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality in the world of interdependence. Finland is part of the West and part of the European Union. We are following the decisions taken together in the European Union. Our international position is based on skill to understand our changing operating environment. It is also based on strong self-awareness about our own place in the international community. A country with good self-esteem can make its own, right choices even in difficult places. We strengthen Finland's international position through active foreign policy. We want to continue to offer our expertise in mediation and peacekeeping. Similarly, we must actively address the root causes of global challenges such as refugees and their resolution. I believe that Finland has much to offer in the sustainable resolution of the major issues of humanity, such as climate, energy, food and water. We're a nation that's used to solving trouble. Mr President! The current migration situation in Europe is a concrete example of a major development that has, in principle, been visible and predictable for years. Yet no one could see that it was this summer that hundreds of thousands of people decide to go looking for security and a better life in Europe, even though instability has continued in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya and Somalia for years. This has been an important reminder that we too in Finland must keep our foreign policy perspective global. We need to be able to read the big picture of world politics. In such a situation, the difficult issues of foreign policy are not just outside Finland; they are present in our everyday lives. We must be prepared to ensure that the megatrends associated with the world's development challenges and their multiplier effects affect our foreign policy in many ways over the coming years. Madam President! Finland's foreign and security policy environment has changed. World events are currently reflected in the domestic situation in an exceptionally significant way. The threefold link between external, internal and pan-European challenges also needs to be addressed. This was also palpable last Thursday, when I last met my European colleagues. We discussed the national situation pictures of immigration and the European solutions to the current situation. At the same time, however, we also discussed the war in Syria and the terror of Isil. We discussed Russia's activities in Syria and the dialogue between Russia and the United States. We discussed Turkey and intensified cooperation between the EU and Turkey. We discussed Libya and the wave of hope in its internal development. We discussed Ukraine. Our common agenda is therefore long and difficult. The external capacity of the European Union is currently facing constant challenges. This must not lead Europe to be a spectator of world politics. The EU must put its range of foreign policy instruments into practice more effectively. This is important because, in terms of foreign and security policy, a strong European Union is also in our interest. Madam President! It is important for Finland to maintain good foreign policy relations in all directions. The Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, our other EU partners and transatlantic cooperation are important to us. These relationships must not be taken for granted. We maintain a constructive dialogue and a strong everyday neighbour to Russia. Our relations with Russia are good, although the times are now more difficult, both because of Russia's external action and because of its internal development. For 25 years now, relations between Finland and Russia have not been limited to communication with the capitals, Helsinki and Moscow. Many of our provinces and municipalities are working very closely with their cross-border partners today. For Finland and Finnish business, the Russian market is still important. Cooperation between authorities is strong and wide-ranging, for example between our border guards in our countries. Despite the difficult situation in relations between the EU and Russia, I see that there is also a need for cooperation between them to resolve major international issues. Such issues include the slowdown in economic growth, hostile extremism and the new risks posed by climate change. Mr President! Although our foreign policy environment has changed over the years and will continue to do so, the basics will not change: foreign policy decisions must be based on the current situation, not on the past. Foreign policy must be based on real facts, not on assumptions. Foreign policy is a form of sustainability. In particular, foreign policy has often been mystified as a legacy of past years. But it's not some kind of secret science. It has become ever closer to everyday life as, for example, our external relations have become more important alongside traditional foreign and security policy. The solid pillar of Finland’s foreign policy is that our country’s own affairs are in order. A strong economy, an efficient and fair public sector and a caring and responsible society also give us credibility and influence in foreign policy. That is why we must continue on the road to the reforms we have begun with determination. Mr President! We are the Finland of Solutions. Active, open, international and courageous solutions for Finland. This is also an excellent guideline for our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u3	Madam President! Thank you for this opportunity to speak on key foreign policy issues. My intention is to look in particular at Russia and the international situation. Russia is a key neighbour to Finland. Finland’s long line has been to build good cooperation with Russia. Stable cooperation has taken advantage of both sides. A neighbour learns from his neighbour, as Minister Lavrov said last week in Oulu. Russia, however, is more than just a neighbour of Finland. It is an important international player, always has been. Its activities are therefore of particular importance. Russia is committed to a common European value base. Its main foundations are the consensus agreed in Helsinki in 1975 that Europe's borders will not be changed by force. These principles were enshrined in the European Charter at the end of the Cold War. What Russia has done in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine violates these common rules. That is why the international community has reacted with determination. We do not accept the takeover of Crimea. It is contrary to international law. Neighborhood with Russia is important to Finland. What is also important is how the international and European community operates when its basic rules are violated. That is what Ukraine is all about. Finland wants good cooperation with Russia. Returning to everyday life is up to Russia itself. Sanctions are not an absolute value. Sanctions are an instrument that seeks to change Russia's activities. Russia is important to Finland. I am concerned about its internal development. Democracy and civil society have not got a proper foothold. The economy is very one-sided. Well-being Russia is also in Finland's interest. Madam President! Russia is an important international player. We can see it in Syria. We are assessing Russia's policy on the basis of its actions. The Syrian war has been going on for too long. It has caused tremendous destruction and human suffering. This cannot continue. Peace must be sought through the UN. We hope that Russia will support this endeavour and the efforts of the international community to defeat barbaric terrorism. The Prime Minister spoke about the refugee situation. Here we can see very well that even faraway things have a direct impact on Finland. War in Syria, disorder in Libya or distress in Africa is rapidly and substantially transmitted. Therefore, foreign policy is of great importance to Finland’s security. Foreign policy is of great importance to Finland’s security — this has also been emphasised on several occasions by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the past, when a judge and a doctor were placed against one another, a greater variety of professions is needed today. We need both soldiers and diplomats, peacemakers and human rights defenders, economists and engineers. Mr President! Finland assumes its responsibilities. Crisis management is one important way in which Finland participates in the stabilisation of the world. That is why we are in Afghanistan and Iraq. Action in the Mediterranean and the Sahel is directly involved in the smuggling of human beings. Finnish expertise in crisis management is high. We have a long tradition. Finland will continue to participate actively in crisis management. We have long seen the need to promote security on a broad front. Human rights and development are essential elements of security. Madam President! When it comes to Ukraine and Syria, it is a broader context, it is an international order. It is an undeniable fact that the United States has a key role and responsibility in maintaining international order and system. It is in the interests of Europe that the United States is linked in many ways to Europe. This link should be maintained and strengthened. Of course, Europe must shoulder its own responsibilities. We are doing so largely through the EU, whose strengthening as a foreign and security policy actor is also in our interest. It is clear that European countries are best placed to work together. That is why Europe's unity is important. We are not following the British debate on the EU's choice indifferently, but with the hope that the EU will be a valuable community in Britain's eyes. The EU without Britain is not the same, not in any respect, and certainly not in foreign policy. Finland is an active member of the EU, but NATO is not a foreign partner to Finland either. We have been working closely with NATO and working closely with NATO almost a quarter of a century. Cooperation with NATO is also important for Finland’s security. Madam President! It is natural for Finland to work in close cooperation with other Nordic countries, especially Sweden. Our partnership with Sweden is deep. Together, we can support each other's safety. I do not see any point in setting a limit or end point for this cooperation. We will deepen cooperation in security and defence policy with a determined mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u4	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, Finland’s international operating environment is more demanding than it has been for a long time. The crisis in Ukraine, the difficult situation in the Middle East, the influx of refugees and the increased tension in the Baltic Sea region are examples of this. I guess you could say there's a lot of stuff going on here. But it's about serious things. International law and a rule-based international system are prerequisites for peace, security, human rights, prosperity and stable development. Their defence is even more topical. The UN turns 70 this week. The World Organisation’s capacity to act varies, but it is still an indispensable and indispensable tool in solving the world’s crises. As UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld once said: 'It is not the task of the UN to create for us heaven, but to save us from hell.' In Europe, the principles of the OSCE and the Council of Europe provide an important basis for cooperation. The European Union, for its part, is Finland's main reference group and channel of influence. The functioning of the transatlantic link between the EU and the United States is also important. Nordic cooperation, Mr President, is also even more important in the current situation. The importance of Nordic cohesion is profound for Finland and Finland’s security. Finland’s Nordic identity remains an invaluable cornerstone of Finland’s international position. Its security policy importance has become clearer in the light of recent events, such as the Ukraine crisis. Russian activation is listed in all Nordic countries. Over the past few years, cooperation in the fields of foreign, security and defence policy in the Nordic countries has developed rapidly, and the same development continues. We share a very similar view of the conditions and challenges of security. Together, the Nordic countries can strengthen the security of their own region. Bilateral cooperation between Finland and Sweden in foreign, security and defence policy is in the wind. It has the strong support of the citizens and governments of both countries. It is essential to extend concrete cooperation gradually without precluding any form of cooperation, just as Mr Soini has said here. The Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Sweden a few weeks ago. In our neighbouring country, support for NATO membership has increased, but the current Swedish Government does not intend to apply for NATO membership. Swedish people are also interested in Finnish solutions, and it is important that we keep the security policy dialogue very close. Many people think that Finnish and Swedish security policy solutions should go hand in hand. Although the eyes of world politics may be in Syria right now, it must not be overshadowed, for example, by the December Paris climate conference, where it is absolutely necessary to agree on measures to mitigate climate change. Ukraine must not be forgotten either. At all levels of our influence, it is important that we contribute to the resolution of the crisis in Ukraine by diplomatic means, along the path set out in the Minsk Agreement. Work on this must also be carried out in bilateral discussions between Finnish and Russian politicians. The most positive news about Ukraine for a long time is that the ceasefire has been taking place since the beginning of September. It is the first step towards better development. However, it is still too early to draw conclusions that the situation is improving with certainty. Mr President! The situation in the Middle East is becoming increasingly worrying. The destructive civil war in Syria continues, and Russian military action to support the Assad regime has added a new multidimensional element to the arrangement. Isil is threatening regional stability even more than only in Syria and Iraq. The conflict between the Palestinians and Israel has again intensified over the last few weeks. The Iranian Parliament approved an agreement on the restriction of nuclear technology, but Iran's action concerns many neighbours in the region. Syria and Iraq are key countries of origin for the refugee crisis affecting Europe. The continuing civil war in Afghanistan has increased the number of Afghans seeking to enter Europe, and the number of asylum seekers seeking to enter Europe from Africa has also remained high. A lasting solution to the refugee crisis will only be achieved by calming the situation in the crisis areas. In this respect, the international community must play a stronger role. Mr President! One may think that foreign policy is merely a matter of caring for distant matters. It may be, but at the same time it is also a contribution to the safety and well-being of Finns. A wise foreign policy is the best security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u5	The next round of group talks will be launched by the parliamentary group in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u6	Madam President! The security of a small nation is built on the art of understanding the changes of the world and, on the other hand, the wisdom of defining a safe line for Finland. Finland’s foreign policy has been well managed and balanced. Our country is known as a peacemaker. There are no speculations or doubts about our position: we are a Nordic country and a member of the European Union, we are not part of a military alliance and we are implementing a partnership with NATO. Finland has good relations with every direction of the air and with everyone. In addition to traditional threats, new threats have emerged. Interdependence is a fashion word, but it is true, it has grown, and even distant things have become close. Climate change is an essential indicator of interdependence. International cooperation will respond to terrorism, refugee crises and cyber threats. Moreover, foreign policy is increasingly linked to the economy, and vice versa. Finland’s foreign policy aims to strengthen the security policy balance and stability in Northern Europe, the Arctic region and the Baltic Sea region. Northern stability policy is important not only for Europe as a whole, but also more broadly for the major powers. Finland and Sweden, as non-military and closer cooperation between themselves, have acted as builders of stability policy. These countries have indicated that they will keep each other informed of their foreign and security policy intentions, for example with regard to the application for NATO membership. After all, Sweden is actively discussing this issue, but there too it does not seem to be any time to apply for membership. The Centre supports the intensifying cooperation between Finland and Sweden on security policy, as well as the wider Nordic cooperation. Finland has been and is a bridge builder, a respected OSCE and OSCE country. The escalation of confrontation between Russia and the West is not only dangerous but also particularly harmful to Finland. We've got to get on the road to seduction. The crises in Ukraine and Syria, the crises in the Middle East in general, must be resolved by political means. For its part, Finland must make efforts to restore and strengthen the EU's ability to act in its core peace-related tasks, as well as in managing the refugee crisis. Finland must continue to conduct its relations with Russia directly on a bilateral basis. President Niinistö has acted in a supportive way in Finnish Eastern politics in these critical times. The same applies to our relations with the United States. President! Next year it will be 60 years since Finland sent its first UN peacekeepers to the world, Suez. Our effective crisis management history began, and it must not break or lose its significance. Finland is well placed to play a significant role in solving global problems, such as overcoming extreme poverty and securing food supply and clean water. There is now a need for practical problem-solving capabilities, especially as resources have been reduced. In order to be a productive peacemaker, we must creatively combine military and civilian crisis management, development policy, humanitarian aid and traditional mediation into a functioning whole. Must be a lot of work to do. The reduction in development appropriations is regrettable; it can also be said from the government. However, it is important to maintain the 0.7% target. It tells us the direction and the goal anyway. In addition to the valuable activities of NGOs and traditional development cooperation, new sources of funding need to be found. The involvement of private business in development strengthens the economy of developing countries. Instruments such as Finnfund enable significant environmental and energy projects that create jobs to be carried out. Madam President! Finland’s foreign policy has been imprisoned by a long-standing attempt to reach broad political consensus beyond the government’s and opposition’s borders. For that we have commendable, indisputable evidence. It is worth noting that future security and foreign policy policies will also be drawn up jointly between the government and the opposition here in Parliament, whatever form they may take.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u7	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy environment has changed rapidly. The Ukraine War, the Russian sanctions, the European refugee crisis and the Syrian war pose major challenges for small Finland. Finland must be an active foreign policy player in the reconciliation of the crises around us and as a peace builder in crisis areas. Finland must maintain good relations with all our neighbours. Good external relations, in particular with Sweden, Estonia, Russia, Germany and the United States, play an important role in the Finnish economy. Finland is involved in the EU's economic sanctions against Russia. However, Finland has been the largest relative sufferer of economic sanctions in the EU. We should remember that Finland and Russia share a common border of 1,300 kilometres. Finland's geopolitical location is a reality that the EU must also understand. As far as possible, Finland must increase economic and commercial cooperation with Russia. In addition, Finland's special expertise in Russia and knowledge of culture must be used even more strongly in our bilateral relations. We have active cooperation in the fields of tourism, the Arctic region and culture and science. Successful cooperation also takes place in border and customs matters. The interaction between Finland and Russia must be based on constructive dialogue and good cooperation. The People's Party of Finland condemns the occupation of Crimea. The compromise created by the Minsk Treaty, albeit fragile, gives little hope for the gradual smoothing of the conflict. Finland has been actively involved in the OSCE civilian observation mission in Ukraine. The mission has played an important role in stabilising the situation in Ukraine. Member of Parliament Ilkka Kanerva has acted in a commendable way as President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u10	Madam President! I would like to thank the Assembly on behalf of the parliamentary group for this initiative. In a short time, there have been such major changes in our security environment that such a debate is now in order. Security has played an increasingly important role in our foreign policy. I will start with what is closest to us, namely the Baltic Sea. Until a few years ago, military conflict in the Baltic Sea region was considered almost impossible. However, Russia's efforts in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine have shown that nothing is certain anymore. They have restored the threat: if not concrete, then at least an opportunity for it. Russia has repeatedly violated the airspace of the Baltic States and has demonstrated the strategic importance of the Baltic Sea. For Finland, it is particularly important to what solutions our western neighbour, Sweden, will end up in. Every party in the previous government is now in favour of NATO membership. Gallup surveys also show that the majority support NATO membership in Sweden. It is no secret that the Coalition Party believes that NATO membership in Finland and Sweden would strengthen the security of the Baltic Sea region as a whole. In Sweden, the pro-NATO trend has clearly increased, while the negativeness has decreased. The cause is concern about Russia. However, during this term of government, Sweden does not, according to the Government's announcement, apply for NATO membership. However, it has started to strengthen its bilateral security policy relations strongly. In particular, a recent five-point plan with the United States to intensify defence cooperation is noteworthy. Sweden will also increase its defence budgets and its cooperation with NATO. We welcome the strong desire to deepen cooperation with Finland. Finland should also take advantage of the opportunity to approach the United States itself, for example in the context of arms procurement and in the development of trade policy through the TTIP agreement. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is concerned about Finland's security. Other countries in the Baltic Sea have done their interpretations and increased their defence budgets. In Finland, one hand gives and the other hand takes. Mr President! If few knew the security environment of the Baltic Sea had changed, the refugee crisis has predicted even fewer. Immigration has also become a foreign policy to a very large extent, as can be seen, for example, by President Niinistö's visit to Turkey. It goes without saying that before the situation in the Middle East can at least calm down, everything else is just treating the symptoms. Yet, in this acute situation, we must focus on them. The Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party welcomes the fact that the EU has at last acquired a more effective grip on the situation in recent times. The challenge is common to the whole of the Union, because only through the EU can we really manage this crisis. Foreign policy is rapidly transformed into security and internal policy. The situation where the route of people leaving safe areas ends up in Tornio, Finland, is untenable. It is a waste of both human and economic resources. That is why we need to invest in solutions at the EU's external borders. Strengthen the control of Frontex's external borders and improve people's conditions in transit countries and refugee camps in order to put an end to the uncontrolled flow. Here negotiations with Turkey and Libya are absolutely key. The return system must also be made operational as a matter of urgency in order to help effectively the real need for assistance. Finland assumes its international and European responsibility to help those in need. It is important that Finland's development aid and humanitarian aid continue to be targeted at countries of origin and transit in order to help people on the ground. A holistic approach is needed: the situation in the countries of origin can also be supported by promoting peace processes and, if necessary, through civilian and military crisis management. Mr President! Not two without a third or a foreign policy without Russia. Finland has stood together with the EU, condemned Russia's actions in Ukraine and imposed sanctions against Russia. Russia's economy is beginning to be in great trouble, which shows the effectiveness of the sanctions. At the same time, however, Finland has suffered from Russian sanctions, particularly in food exports. For both of us, it would be advantageous for sanctions to be lifted. However, trade cannot be separated from foreign policy. It all depends on Russia. The Minsk agreement must be implemented very carefully. Thanks to Finland's policy towards Russia belong in particular to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. It should also be noted that the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr Kanerva, is active in the OSCE. In these stormy times, the monitoring of foreign and security policy requires great vigilance. We live in troubled times.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u11	Mr President! When the security policy situation has also changed and tense in our neighbourhood, it must also be taken into account in foreign policy. In difficult situations, policy continuity, coherence and predictability are particularly important. Finland must assess its security policy environment and maintain its freedom of action as circumstances change. In the current situation, Finland will best contribute to the stability and security of its immediate environment in the direction that we have established as a non-military country supporting the European Union's common foreign and security policy and active stability policy. The fact that the government's policies show the need to prepare for the continuation and even worsening of tensions is understandable and justified, as is the provision of sufficient resources for preparedness. But alongside preparedness, it is important to invest at least as strongly in influence. This can be expressed in such a way that the less affected, the more need to be prepared. In a world of growing interdependence, one of which is the European refugee crisis, we must not just be impressed, but must strengthen the effectiveness of foreign and security policy and, as the Government Programme promises, promote international stability, peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality in the world. This entry comes into a strange light when you look at what the government is actually doing. The most visible issue is direct cuts of more than 40% in development cooperation. In any other European country, even in more difficult situations, there are no adaptation measures to this extent aimed at international cooperation and accountability. Finland has been valued as a constructive, competent and reliable small power in crisis management, which is prepared to allow us to participate in a variety of crisis management operations at the same time. Now the government wants to save in crisis management so that in the future there will be no more than 120 troops from Finland in operations. Such a message, together with substantial cuts in development cooperation, has already caused damage to Finland's reputation in our development cooperation partner countries, international organisations and many informal groups of similar countries. Since then, no one will be inviting Finland, for example, to a Lebanese friend group or similar ad hoc configurations that are making an effective effort to alleviate and resolve conflicts. Finland will also be assessed in the European Union regarding the management of the Greek and Euro crisis, the preparation for the Paris Conference on Climate Change and the way we invest in the mainstream of the EU's common foreign and security policy, as well as our readiness to take part in joint responsibility on refugee and migration issues. Finland must not position itself as a country in which hate speech and its hate deeds are as if accepted everyday life, and all government parties must be required to be sufficiently clear about this. The most worrying thing is that we are separating ourselves from our closest European reference group, the Nordic countries. The current world situation places particular emphasis on the need to maintain and deepen cooperation with Sweden, the most valuable and important partner in Finland. It's not what we look like in other people's eyes that matters. The real question is whether we, as a nation, are really turning our back on solidarity, solidarity and active participation in strengthening peace, conflict prevention and the primacy of human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u14	Mr President! Minister Jaakko Iloniemi, the long-term foreign policy influencer, recently reminded us that the world will not stop waiting for us Finns to get our economies in order. World events are coming before us, and we need to respond to them in a timely manner. It is in the interests of a small country to respect international agreements and their sovereignty and to address violations of them. It was right to respond to the illegal occupation of Crimea and the crisis in Eastern Ukraine, together with the EU, with economic sanctions, even though they are now weighing on our own economy. It is also worthwhile for a small country to promote international dialogue and active resolution of problems. Last summer's OSCE meeting. There could have been one forum for dialogue in Helsinki, but we did not use it. The focus of international attention has now shifted to Syria and Iraq. It is right that we are in the Kurdish region of northern Iraq training peshmerga troops as part of the fight against Isis. The resolution of the ISIS problem in the Syrian and Iraqi regions also requires the understanding and coordination of the major powers. The importance of the UN and its Security Council is emphasised. Mr President! In this situation, Finland should also stress the role of the UN in conflict resolution and the management of international crises. Some of our development cooperation has been channelled through the UN, and this is where drastic cuts are now being made. It is not wise to weaken the UN in the midst of crises. For example, the cuts made by the Unep or the World Health Organization (WHO) are unreasonable. Everyone seems to be signing up to the idea that it would be better to help the victims of crises close to the crisis areas rather than large flows of refugees. Finnish NGOs are part of this assistance work. They are now facing up to 40% cuts in their work. At the same time as Finnfund’s funding is strongly increased, the situation is not balanced. The Greens believe that the government's budget proposal requires correction in this respect. Mr President! There is demand for many things in the world where we are good and competent: the environment, energy efficiency, water protection, improving the position of women and girls, education, health, promotion of human rights or the rights of people with disabilities. Such elements create the story of Finland in the world, and there is a growing market for our expertise. These are also objectives that coincide with the objectives of the Paris climate conference and the UN Post 2015 targets. In crisis areas, we can support peace processes and participate in peace-keeping activities, civilian crisis management and humanitarian work. It is also important that we keep the principles of humanitarian law on the agenda. Wars also have rules, and it is worth reminding ourselves of that when we see the faceless violations of human rights against the civilian population.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u15	Madam President! Incoming nationalism, which has risen both in Finland and across Europe, weakens our chances of success and success. Nationalist and extreme right-wing movements do not have the ability to respond to future problems. On the contrary, they are one of the causes of the current problems. The major problems of the future — poverty and inequality, wars and violence, climate change and the destruction of the environment — all of these require Finland to open up even more, not close down. Finland's foreign policy must therefore aim to reform the UN system and restore the UN's authority. Madam President! There has been no slaughter like the Syrian civil war in the vicinity of Europe since World War II. President Bashar al-Assad's regime is without a shadow of a doubt bombing an innocent civilian population. There are as many as 300,000 dead. [Explosion sounds from the renovation site. ] The rise of the extremist Islamic terrorist organisation Isis to the strongest opposition is also in the interests of Assad, because, alongside the barbarism of ISIS, the bloody dictator seems to be more moderate. Isis is a terrible force against which everyone must group together. The Kurds are a real counterforce to ISIS in Syria and Iraq. It is right that Finland is training the Kurdish peshmerga troops in Northern Iraq. At the same time, however, it is incomprehensible that without greater protests, the Turkish NATO country is being allowed to bomb the Kurds fighting against the ISIS for domestic political reasons. The United States is only watching this on the sidelines. Madam President! The world is torn apart by crises, and they always have a great power political dimension. The worrying situation is in a socially regressive Russia. In Russia, nationalist threats have put minorities under pressure, suppressed political opposition, free media and non-governmental organisations. Russia is armed in its own interests, including in Ukraine and Syria. The United States also has its own power policy interests, both in Ukraine and in Syria. In addition to this, the United States does not, for example, put pressure on its close ally Israel to resolve the Palestinian issue, but gives its tacit consent to the Israeli right-wing government continuing to build illegal settlements and to despoil Palestinian conditions. Israel is collectively punishing the Palestinians with the so-called apartheid wall on the West Bank, and Gaza can be called the world's largest open prison. The EU could also put pressure on Israel by considering trade relations with Israel. One important foreign policy move from Finland would be to end the arms trade with Israel and Saudi Arabia, among others. Madam President! Finland's place in the world is not a party to any war, an arms dealer or a advocate of military solutions. Finland’s NATO membership would not improve Finland’s security or in any way help to address future problems such as global poverty or climate change. The right and natural place in Finland will continue to be outside NATO. Europe and the world need militarily non-aligned countries which are not parties to crises but can act as mediators. Conflict prevention and reconciliation are also the only sustainable means of solving the refugee problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u16	Värderade Talman! Det är med mottridiga känslor jag i dag i den arvutalitetsdebatte commenterar den finländska utrikespolitiken. Jo, visst kan tutta ljuspunkter då man betraktar säkerhetspolitiken och kanske en mer ansvarsmedveten attityd när det gäller flyktingströmmarna i Europa. Men Vilken Bild får man av Finland då regeringen väjer att nasta år skära ned biståndsbudgeten med 330 million euro? Har man alls begrundat vi sällar oss eller hur mycket vi fjärmar oss från de övriga nordiska lländerna när vi går ned till en biståndsnivå som motsvarar bara 0,35 percent av bnp?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u17	Madam President! The surrounding world is becoming increasingly troubled. Economic crises, uprisings, revolutions and armed conflicts follow each other. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament welcomes the firm and consistent line represented by President Sauli Niinistö, who is responsible for foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u20	Mr President! The debate was very parallel. Of course, due to these global responsibility issues, there were unfortunately differences in savings. In my opinion, our foreign policy operates on many different levels or in the zone, and the innermost of them is this, let us say, our closest region, the Baltic Sea and the Arctic region, and then prioritize what we should do in this situation. It must do everything it can to increase stability in this region, in the Arctic and in the Baltic Sea region, and act in such a way as to raise the threshold for any provocation, either in connection with misunderstandings or deliberate misunderstandings, to the greatest extent possible. The question is whether, in this situation, Finland could, as was said in the past, take confidence-building measures, whether it is maritime safety or something else, in matters which may not even be entirely related to this toughest security, but which, by maintaining and launching dialogue, would contribute to this stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u21	Mr President! This debate initiative has clearly been in order, it has fulfilled its role in the debate here. There has been a clear agreement here with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that foreign policy is a priority in terms of the security of all of us, just as it has come through the fact that far-off things have become close. All things are close, in fact, so that interdependence has gone this far and that in such a world a small country must make every effort to influence the wider security and then the stability that Mr Vanhanen spoke strongly about in this area of our own neighbourhood. With influence and active influence, we can best protect our own security. There's been a difference of opinion here. Of course, this framework problem has been that way, and then a little bit of the neighbours have the Coalition Party and the RKP have sensitized this NATO issue without saying any more about it. I think it is important that, when we begin to make a report, there could be a fair, open debate which would then lead to common views as far as possible on how Finland's foreign and security policy, including its defence policy, should be conducted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u22	Madam President! This situation in Syria has been raised in this number of speeches, and I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it is a very complicated situation and we are easily interpreted only that the Bashar Al-Assad regime has committed atrocities and Isil, of course, but this situation is much more complicated. I am sure that everyone there has committed atrocities, but I do not see in itself that only the Kurds and the Assad regime are there in some way what I can say. If anyone here knows the kind of parties in the free Syrian army that are moderate, I would like to hear about them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u23	Mr President! Sweden has launched a process in which Sweden will launch a very deep cooperation on security policy with the United States, Denmark and Poland. I ask the ministers: do you think that Finland would also have reason for such a bilateral dialogue more strongly, for example, with these countries, even more than what is normally the interaction of NATO cooperation and others like this? This would be a pretty good opportunity, among other things, for these arms acquisitions with the United States. In this kind of convergence and dialogue would be very possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u24	Mr President! I also think that the government's speeches, as well as the text section of the Government Programme, are something to be welcomed and it is important that we have a common understanding of these fundamental issues. Of course, there will of course be other attempts here. But I personally appreciate this unity very high, and I am concerned, however, that, while the speeches or the text of the programme are worthy of support, it is the concrete decisions and resources that lead Finland to the wrong group. I would be happy to listen to the Government's view of what I thought was incomplete, that we cannot assume that our position and security are only handled by preparing for the worst. Of course it is necessary to take care of them, but it is precisely in these difficult times that we need to have an influence, an active stability policy and instruments, participation in crisis management, development cooperation, humanitarian aid that will ensure that we are:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u25	Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini spoke well about international order, and you referred to the United States there. I myself have given much thought to the role of Russia in this new international order at the moment, because from the perspective of the EU and perhaps the USA we look at this very much through sanctions and Ukraine, but if you look at even a little from outside these regions, Russia will now appear very active in Syria. President Putin was in Kazakhstan and was there to form such a coalition against terrorist threats from Afghanistan and so on. I think it would be worth reacting to and preparing for this kind of new activity and perhaps a more two or more poles of world order to come, and we should consider how we put ourselves in that position. I think it is important for the European Union, as the Prime Minister said, to be active in its own initiatives, both in terms of refugee policy and foreign policy in these areas of crisis, and for example the forthcoming Valletta meeting on Mediterranean issues and others, to give Finland the opportunity to profile, to present what it wants, what EU action should be taken together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u26	Madam President! In addition to the huge cuts in development cooperation, they are carried out in haste. Instead of gradually reducing the programmes, they will have to be driven down unexpectedly when the government drives funding into the wall. Years of work threaten to go to waste, contracts have to be dismantled, and Finland’s reputation suffers. The Government can decide whether Finland supports, for example, the UN system, bilateral cooperation, non-governmental organisations or companies. The Government has made the political decision to cut the most from Finnish organisations and the UN system, such as UNICEF, and, on the other hand, to support Finn-fund in particular. I would now like to ask: is this a well thought-out solution, and are you prepared to change the emphasis so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u27	In Sweden, Prime Minister and Government, the debate on NATO membership has indeed intensified recently, especially since all four bourgeois parties, i.e. Alliansen member parties, have taken a stand to support NATO membership. According to a poll published last month, for the first time there are more advocates of membership than opponents. The Prime Minister's Party, the Social Democratic Party, is now on the side of the proponents, according to the measure. I would like to ask: how does the government monitor changes in the Swedish opinion climate, including changes in the party field, and how does the government intend to stay on the NATO frequency?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u28	Madam President! The unrest in the Middle East is currently the greatest threat to world peace. Iran recently presented to the press its previously classified ballistic missile, the launch platform of which was installed in a cave 500 meters below the ground, while testing its second ballistic missile, carrying 1,300 miles (1,300 miles) away. Iran claims that the Vienna agreement between the P5+1 countries and Iran does not prevent missile design, construction and testing. I ask the government: how do you see this in terms of the overall situation in the Middle East and the sanctions that have recently been lifted against Iran?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u29	Let me now give the floor to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u30	Mr President! In the current situation Finland will best contribute to the stability and security of its immediate environment in the direction that we have established as an active country supporting and developing the common foreign and security policy of the European Union, which is not part of the military alliance. The main policy line for foreign and security policy must be continuity, consistency and predictability. Our economy and employment are based on international trade and cooperation. Finland must also be an active actor and influencer in international arenas. Finland has had a lot of confidence in these arenas and we are building up greater influence. As a result of the government's development and crisis management cuts, confidence in Finland has already been weakened and will decrease, and these will have a bearing on the reduction of influence. I hope that for the sake of the safety and well-being of Finland and Finns, the Government will review these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u31	Mr President! Firstly, on economic sanctions and sanctions against Russia, I would like to say that we are, at the moment, cautiously waiting for this to happen. In view of the positive developments in the Minsk Agreement, so that we can lift those economic sanctions. Some of our own people are also subject to financial sanctions. Many businesses are threatening to end, and many have even lost their jobs as a result of Russian sanctions. Next on this refugee crisis: I have such a Nigerian friend who has been fighting the terrorist organisation Boko Haram for several years, and he recently wrote to me that you have a bigger problem there in Europe: Isis. He called ISIS a global threat to democracy. Mr President! In this situation, even for Europe as a whole, we need comprehensive crisis management together with the UN, the EU, without forgetting civilian crisis management in support of military crisis management.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u32	Mr President! There are many things to follow in the Middle East, but it is worth paying particular attention to the development of Iran as the nuclear agreement moves forward. As it currently appears, it will strengthen Iran's position in the region. However, sanctions must not be lifted too quickly, but it must be followed by developments that Iran actually does what has been agreed, acts according to the agreements, and, of course, the human rights situation in Iran and other activities in that region must also be monitored. The Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to pay particular attention to this matter, in the follow-up to the situation in the Middle East, in the course of next year. Mr President! I myself have concerns about these crisis management resources in the future. Traditionally, our participation has been extensive, and it is a pity that it is being pushed down quite a bit. I hope, however, that the government will see room for manoeuvre here that, if there are needs in the world, we will also have the capacity to react and participate more strongly in this situation and in this way take on international responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u33	Madam Speaker! I feel that neither the government nor the whole parliament here in Finland have understood this scale of the military refugee crisis caused by the Syrian war. Of the 22 million population, 8 million people are refugees within Syria, 4 million are outside, and Turkey is the country that has taken over more than 2 million refugees. It is through Turkey that we are going to enter the EU, and this has caused a huge humanitarian disaster both in the Mediterranean and in these refugee camps, which the UN refugee organisation has paid particular attention to. That aid should be directed precisely to where it is most needed. And how the cuts made by the Finnish Government to development cooperation fit this pattern when people should be lifted from the extreme
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u34	Madam President! Our international security environment has changed rapidly, and power policy has made a spectacular return to Russia's choice of means. Understandably, this concerns the Finns. When we want peace, our own credible defence is an essential part of securing Finland. I ask the Minister for Defence: is the spirit of the Government Programme now being realised in such a way that the Defence Forces are guaranteed the funds for both material procurement and operational expenditure? Secondly, the Defence Forces are launching an important project to replace the Hornets. I would like to ask the Minister's view and how this project will be financed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u35	Madam President! Finland has long been a small superpower in both peace-keeping and peace-keeping, and this is certainly partly due not only to our geography but also to our experience, our knowledge, but also to our trust and respectability. Now, however, these drastic cuts by the government, for example from UN organisations and, more broadly, from development cooperation, threaten our expertise. The government has marketed these cuts so that we can now reform development cooperation. This sounds very strange, though, when the fact is that we are less and less able to help the poorest in the world. Here again, surgery does not suddenly turn into reform. Ministers, where will we get new vaults and ahtisaaris to reconcile peace throughout the world if we drive ourselves internationally and in foreign politics?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u36	Madam President! With private cash flows, trade for development and investment, in particular through the involvement of the private sector, strengthening the tax base, we will have far greater effects on economic growth in developing countries than, by the way, excellent traditional development cooperation, which of course is needed. Now the private sector is being strengthened in development cooperation, as required by the OECD, as required by the Addis Ababa meeting, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also commented on these innovative sources of funding. It is unfortunate that traditional development cooperation must be cut back, but, in view of comparison, it must be pointed out that, in times of great difficulty, Lipponen's first government also resorted to cuts, which frozen development aid funds to the level of 95. Between 96 and 99, the cuts amounted to EUR 416 million in cumulative terms to this day. At that time, the government had the SDP, the Coalition Party, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP, and the Minister for the Environment and Development had the portfolio of Minister Pekka Haavisto, the current representative Pekka Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u37	Mr President! I would like to thank the ministers for the very right-hand and right-hand analyses that we have heard in the first place. The EU and, of course, the development of Britain is very important to us, including Finland, and relations with Russia are always important. It is also right that many speeches have already made a strong point of public stability in international relations and its connection with the migration crisis that we ourselves have faced. The cuts in development aid continue to emerge in various speeches and are specifically linked to this international migration crisis. I cannot help but be constantly surprised that this is creating the impression that the cuts that have not yet entered into force are in some way linked to the crisis that is now in place. The current situation has been achieved at the current level of aid, which tells us that there is something wrong with current policy and that something needs to be changed in current policy. I would therefore like to hear from the ministers what you want to change in this current policy, both internationally and in development aid policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u38	Mr President! The collapse of development cooperation appropriations under international agreements is very regrettable and will certainly affect Finland's reputation. For example, the massive cuts in the UNICEF Children’s Fund have dramatic effects on the conditions for living the world’s poorest children. Reducing aid in crisis areas means worsening hunger and increasing the number of refugees in the world. However, the key issue now would be to ensure that even the remaining appropriations were allocated correctly. Will they be valued by organisations engaged in valuable development cooperation, or will they remain merely a consultant’s role when the government shifts its focus to support companies? Is the promotion of human rights still part of Finland's development cooperation, or have the interests of the economy and companies trampled on human rights? How Finland will implement international measures to combat the shadow economy when NGOs investigating tax evasion are now being taken away by the government
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u39	Mr President! Unity, predictability has been an important factor in Finland's foreign policy. This agreement has also imprisoned the reliability and content of our policy, as Mrs Kääriäinen said here. I too am pleased that, as far as our big line is concerned, even the Coalition Party and the RKP are not now proposing NATO membership, but there is a consensus that this big line will go through this parliamentary term. Then the question is how these future reports will be made, what will be the big line of security policy in the second half of this term and forward. The report and the question whether it is possible to do so have an important role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u40	Madam President! As we all know, in recent years, the Defence Forces have been on a larger austerity course than any other administrative sector. At the same time, the Defence Forces have had to use more resources than usual to ensure territorial integrity. In recent weeks, a lot of talk and concern has been raised by operating expenditure savings. The views have even been expressed that Finland, as the only country in which it operates, would drive down its military activities, and this is, understandably, a very worrying speech in our tense security environment and sends out a completely wrong signal. In this context, I would like to ask the Government, and in particular the Minister of Defence, Niinistö, for its views on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u41	Two more debatable speeches are being made at this stage — let us continue, between ministers and ministers — and these two people are Mr Haglund and Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u42	Madam President! Very great that this kind of discussion can be held, and in fact I would like that we could regularly have this kind of dialogue. These are important themes. I would have asked you, Prime Minister, when you have promised in your government programme that this possible NATO membership will be investigated, and as Mrs Wallin has already pointed out, things are changing in Sweden: how is the government now thinking about this NATO option, and how is it going to involve Parliament in this debate? Mr Heinäluoma's recent question was very relevant and I am in line with him. It is important that these debates should be able to involve the whole parliamentary power in the debate. These are, as we know, quite difficult and sensitive issues, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important for us all to be able to participate in this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u43	Mr President! In foreign policy, too, things are what they look like, and as Mr Haavisto said in the Greens' group statement, the Foreign Minister has banned the Finnish embassies from organising traditional and very popular Independence Day celebrations. So they have drawn thousands of contacts and have been very useful opportunities for Finland in terms of networking and reputation. Now it seems that our good-working diplomats have become prisoners of short-sighted populism. Last season, money burned to Team Finland, and during this reign, the whim of a single headless sheetman who is opposed to immigration is undoubtedly a public injury, but is it to save EUR 300,000 and make it possible for the international debate that Finland no longer has the money to invite its friends to celebrate even the hard-earned and sustained independence, the message we want to send to the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u44	Ministers have now asked for the floor. Under the order of ministers Soini, Niinistö, Toivakka and also Prime Minister then, and 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u46	Next was Minister Niinistö, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u47	Madam President! Mr Vikman and Mr Pelkonen asked about the funding of the defence. Next year, the defence budget will be EUR 2.9 billion. I am pleased to inform the representatives that the defence budget will increase next year. It will increase by EUR 227 million. It is 9%, but only about one third of it is so-called new money, and the lion's share of this new money is an additional EUR 50 million, as proposed by the study group chaired by Mr Ilkka Kanerva during the last parliamentary term, which goes to military procurement. It is true that next year the defence budget will be subject to operational expenditure savings of EUR 15 million, unfortunately, as will other administrative sectors. They will be carried out in accordance with my political guidance without cutting out military training, without cutting back-up exercises for reserve personnel and without cutting out the control of territorial integrity. Mr Salolainen said that one hand is taken, the other hand is given. That is the case, but the big picture is worth keeping in mind all the time, and that is that the defence budget will increase next year. And as far as the follow-up project for the Hornet fighters is concerned, it is too early to say at this stage that it is not covered by separate funding. You can't take it out of the defense budget. It is estimated that this will amount to between EUR 6 billion and EUR 10 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u48	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Last night I returned from Jordan, where I visited the country, a country that bears responsibility for 1.3 million refugees. Of them, about 600,000 are registered, of whom only about 150,000 are in these refugee camps. I also visited the second largest refugee camp in the world to get to know the situation that families have there. I can tell you that the visit was quite emotional and impressive. We have received a strong signal that, given the prolonged crisis, many have been there for several years, there is a great need for assistance. In particular, there is a need to strengthen the carrying capacity both in refugee camps and outside camps, i.e. education, health services. I am glad that I was able to get to know the activities funded by Finns there, such as the excellent activities of UN Women, which strengthens, empowers women, or, for example, the work of the Church of Foreign Aid, which gives young people the opportunity to study and engage in hobbies. It is important that Finland participates in such work, and Finland strongly supports the work of UN organisations in the future. We have chosen priorities because a small country cannot be involved in everything. Through our priorities, we will continue to strongly support UN Women — next year we will be among the ten largest contributors — or, for example, Unfpaa, the UN body responsible for reproductive health. We may be the fifth largest financier. At UNICEF, we are strongly involved not only in general funding, which unfortunately has been cut because of this difficult economic situation, but also through projects. In other words, in the UN organisations, we are not only the general sponsors, we are very strongly involved in projects and we are also in the form of humanitarian aid. The UNHCR, which is working very hard to help refugees, will ensure that the carrying capacity in these refugee camps is maintained — Finland is a very strong supporter there, even now about the sixteenth largest, and we have no intention of reducing this aid. On the contrary, we have increased aid to Syria in this very last autumn by digging up 7.6 million internally. All in all, this year’s aid to Syria’s neighbouring regions totals 22.6 million. Since 2011, more than 70 million Finland has been directing aid to Syrian neighbourhoods. I have just made the decision that we are also spending money on other areas of crisis, because these difficult crises, the protracted crises, are currently too much in the world: the difficult situation in Yemen, where 80% of people are in need of humanitarian aid, as is the case with the Republic of Central Africa. We are now heading to these countries very soon, through UN organisations and the Red Cross, about 4.2 I would also like to say that, when the world changes, development aid must also become more diverse, and the message that these countries will receive,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u49	Madam President! The debate has been very parallel when it comes to the fundamental and cornerstones of foreign and security policy. Just a few things. Representative Wallin and many others raised the importance of Nordic cooperation. It is high on the government's agenda, and there are particularly close contacts with Sweden. Security and immigration were also high priorities, and most of the time was spent two weeks ago at the Nordic Prime Minister's meeting in Denmark. I agree with what has been said about the activities of President Niinistö of the Republic in dealing with the relationship with Russia. It is also appreciated by colleagues in Europe. Influencing the root causes of immigration is extremely important; it was raised in many speeches. We do it together with the EU, through the EU budget, and through participation, as the Minister did. Toivakka told us, also directly to these programs. Building confidence in the neighbourhood has been done, for example, through the chairmanship of the Barents Euro-Arctic region, the Presidency was handed over to Russia, and the next important forum is the Arctic Council Presidency, which will take place in Finland from 2017 to 2019. Representative Salolainen asked about cooperation with the United States. We do so in much the same way as we do with Sweden. In these bilateral contacts and cooperation, of course, this cooperation with Sweden is now underscored. Mr Lapintie, you have highlighted the importance of the flow of refugees through Turkey and of work in the neighbouring areas of Syria. That is true, as you said, between 7 and 8 million people inside Syria are refugees, 4 million have fled Syria. Finland specifically targets its assistance to these regions, and this is done through the EU in particular. Mr Huovinen, these cuts in development cooperation are not explained by reforms. They are clear cuts, and when cuts have been made, we just need to be more precise and careful about the allocation of money. However, it is not the money that is involved in foreign policy. Finally, this parliamentary follow-up. Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Haglund and others raised this point. The format is still open to this society, and we are happy to hear the views of the parliamentary groups. The form of the NATO study, which will be carried out as part of the Foreign and Security Policy Report, has not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u50	Let us continue with these debatable remarks for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u51	Madam President! Minister Toivakka, you told us that Finland strongly supports UNICEF's work, but at the same time you cut UNICEF's support by EUR 15 million, three quarters of all this funding, and this is a tough cut. I am truly sorry that your speeches are so at odds with what you have done. I find it extremely shameful that Finland is cutting back on development appropriations in a situation where it is precisely those that should be invested in and invested more in. Many times in this Chamber we have asked whether these cuts are considered to be complete. The answer hasn't come, but I'll take that as a yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u52	Madam President! This debate has rightly raised concerns about the losses caused by EU sanctions against Russia and the sanctions imposed by Russia on Finland's economy and, above all, our food exports. However, I would like to stress that it is also in Finland's interest that Russia knows that its aggression towards its neighbours has political and economic consequences. In this sense, although sanctions are a bad thing and cause us losses, there is definitely a basis for them in the current situation. If anyone suspects that it is not Russia, which decides how much war is being waged in Eastern Ukraine, then you should now see what has happened. With the desire to shift Russia's focus to Syria, the war in Eastern Ukraine has slowed down at least at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u53	Madam President! Prime Minister, in your two speeches you touched on climate change, but you did not specify Finland's objectives for the climate negotiations in Paris, for example. The fight against climate change is one of our most important tasks, so that in the future there will be good living conditions for the whole of the earth and biodiversity will also be preserved. In my opinion, Finland's negotiating objectives are not very ambitious. They have been examined in a large committee. It is important to have an international, comprehensive, binding climate agreement, but Finland itself and the EU must also meet here and offer emission reductions. For example, by 2030 emissions should be halved. One of the key issues is the climate fund for developing countries, which is funded by rich countries so that climate work can be taken forward in developing countries. I would like you to sharpen the Finnish position a little and tell us about Finland's negotiating objectives, on the other hand, what Finland can promise in these negotiations in order to ensure that an agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u54	Madam President! I would like to start by saying that, once again, these cuts in development cooperation have been severely criticised — and they are also big ones — that we are still above the average in the OECD countries when 0.35% of gross national income goes to development cooperation, so that we are not in the worst caste either. But then I too would have liked to ask about these sanctions. When the crisis in Ukraine has been going on for years and, a few years ago, no one really knew how tense the situation is again between Europe and Russia, we must always live with Russia, even if we do not like all the measures. The sanctions period ends, this round, in January, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister what kind of preparations will then be made for the period after January.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u55	Mr President! President of the Republic Niinistö, President Halonen, President Ahtisaari, OSCE President Kanerva, almost President Haavisto and perhaps future President The soini form a very strong competence in international politics. These world crises actually call out to intermediaries: experienced, respected brokers. Finland as a militarily non-aligned country could be such an intermediate nation, and it would be necessary to have such individuals who are capable of it and who deserve confidence. How about it, Mr Prime Minister, do you see the possibility that Finland will become active in this mediation activity, which has a strong tradition in the past decades?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u56	Mr President! I would like to thank the ministers for their constructive approach in this debate and for highlighting Finland's international role. But you have to see what your hands are doing, not just what your mouth is talking about, and the picture is not quite so malice in all respects. For example, Finland’s decision to abstain at the EU’s Home Affairs Ministers’ meeting in connection with transfers of asylum seekers is not flattering to Finland, and these drastic cuts to development cooperation are if not quite a blow to the face. It makes me wonder what the ultimate attitude of the government towards open international cooperation is when we feel from this opposition that Finland has moved from influence to preparedness. What is the government's analysis: whether Finland's interest is still in open international cooperation, or whether the government has analysed the situation in such a way that it is somehow better for us to act as ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u57	Madam President! Many speeches here have highlighted this world of interdependence, where we live today, and the way in which Finland seeks to respond to this situation through its participation in multilateral international cooperation. This has always meant that we are actively involved in both the EU and the UN, that we are funding development cooperation and that we are also involved in crisis management. Unfortunately, however, at the moment the government's line is to cut both development cooperation and crisis management. I would have liked to know that in that Middle East, when instability seems to continue all the time, how Finland places itself in Afghanistan, among other things. What is the Finnish Government's line on Afghanistan? On the other hand, I would like to appeal to Mr Toivakka to consider this development fund for these NGOs. You have just spoken very touchingly about this situation in Jordan. I myself will be going to that same camp next week, and tomorrow my friend, who will be there for development cooperation, will tell the locals how they will have to withdraw from the project, not to finish what they have been building for years. It is truly sad and undermines Finland's reputation there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u58	Mr President! The 0.7% objective of development aid should not be an absolute value, but rather the way in which these development funds are spent. Of course, I agree that a distinction must be made between what development aid work is effective, such as, for example, the cooperation of domestic organisations on development aid, which is much more valuable and effective than the bilateral money that is being given to the world. But, Mr President, it was also this left-wing way of portraying Israel as a villain and an occupying state, even though the Jews are actually fighting for their existence. There would be no need for genuine and borders if extremist Islamists did not blow up buses, for example, and many bystanders died there, as has been happening in Israel for decades. This is the main reason why these limits are being made there. I ask, Mr Arhinmäki: do you condemn this three-week indiscriminate killing in Israel, which has continued because no one wants to judge it? We quickly condemned the attacks in Paris in January, but now that it is happening
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u59	Madam President! This topical debate on foreign policy is taking place at a very timely time. The situation at our borders, as we have heard in many speeches during this debate, has changed substantially. The world is no longer the safe place that it once was here a few years ago, and the situation in the Baltic Sea has changed quite substantially. Mr President! I thought I would ask the Foreign Minister that, after you have met the Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov and had good discussions with him, and the President of the Republic has also had a very good relationship with him and we have everything in good order from the point of view of the state administration, how often do these discussions ignore the fact that Russia is, however, our important trading partner. And I warmly believe that we must keep in constant contact with our eastern neighbours. We have a country border of 1350 kilometres, which is a reality, and it would be absolutely necessary, in my opinion, even if sanctions policy should not be compromised, yet relations must be built up all the time. And we must remember that even today, trade relations are going very well towards the east, among other things:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u60	Madam President! Violence and terrorism must not be accepted by anyone; that is quite clear. The issue of the Israeli-Palestinian crisis is that on one side there is one of the strongest armed forces in the world; on the other side, the people have been trapped in small areas; there has been a loss of life. Illegal settlements are constantly being built up, people's work, people's cultivation, people's access to water is being restricted. One part of the eradication of the seeds of terrorism and nausea is, in fact, precisely the result of the resolution of this conflict between Israel and Palestine. It will not be solved by weapons, but by finding a peaceful coexistence between Palestine and Israel, just as Mr Soini said, with a two-state model,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u61	Mr President, Fru talman! It is obvious that there is some sort of conflict between the government’s foreign policy talks and foreign policy actions — someone might say that it is also flagrant. You say that you value Russia and want to help resolve the conflict in Ukraine. Nevertheless, the government conducted a failed interpretation of sanctions and prevented the arrival of key Russians in Finland, a dialogue to resolve this conflict. You say that you value Sweden, and Foreign Minister Soini said here that Sweden is Finland's top priority. Yet, in the last month, Mr Soini, you have publicly challenged the government representatives of the neighbouring country, Sweden. This is widely listed in the Nordic press. You also say that people need to be helped close to crisis scenes, but you have cut the money that could be used to do it. When you look at the government for six months
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u62	Madam President! Mr Feldt-Ranta, the Foreign Minister has had a proper discussion with Mrs Wallström, the Swedish Foreign Minister. It's not like we're gonna have a fight with anyone in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u63	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u129	Madam President! Perhaps Mrs Katainen should be reminded that this is not about the freezing of the index, but about the abolition of indexation, and I think it is a step more serious than that. But in reply to Mr Saariko: we will bring our alternative budget here to the Chamber for evaluation in November. And yes, I have to say, Mr Saarikko, that I am really concerned about the welfare debt, which we are leaving behind with these decisions, these very drastic cutting decisions, which we have dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, among others, in recent days. I believe that catching up with this kind of welfare debt is quite many times more difficult than paying off its financial debt when our financial situation is in that situation — hopefully very soon — when we get back to the recovering Finnish economy and can cut back on our sovereign debt even more, to pay it off. But catching up with the welfare debt is much more difficult, representatives, colleagues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u130	Mr President! Once again, I wonder about this eating of downtown words in this matter. Let me repeat: the Prime Minister of the Centre Party, then President In 2014, only one year before the elections, at the mouth of Sipilä announced that a 45 cent increase in the tobacco tax would have allowed child supplementation to be dismantled. Well, now we're on the board. It's been a year. Would it not be logical to expect that the Prime Minister will then propose this increase in the tobacco tax, which is now being made, an increase in the tobacco tax and the abolition of this austerity decision? That is what I would expect of the government when it comes to the political party, which has made this promise forcefully repeated before the elections with its President. But we have not received that proposal here, but rather the indexation that the Central Party has strongly promoted will be dismantled, which will in fact be used to cut child supplements. That is to say, consumer protection for voters who, however, take seriously the speeches that are being given in the marketplaces and in the turbulents. In other words, this will cut the benefits of families with children, and this tax deduction will also be abolished, which, after all, was intended to compensate families with children with low and medium incomes, and so in practice it was in fact in money. And this will now be removed from this too. So all in all, this family policy does not seem to be much of a policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u131	Mr President! You asked why we are so much in favour of this child allowance when it is part of the norm. Well, because compensation is important to those families. Although it is not important for this system, the compensation is important for these families. That is why we support it. When we talk about poverty in families with children, we all know that one of the predisposing factors to poverty is single parenthood, and that was also one of the important things about this child reduction that it was for single parents that this compensation was bigger, EUR 100 per child, EUR 200 for single parents with two children. It's about big money, it's about single-parent families, it's about big, it's about big money. Representative Saarikko talked about making other additional investments for families with children. Well, we know that there are cuts on day care, on education, on a variety of things. Experts say that a generation of children are about to be born, who are now experiencing austerity measures. These children are forced to pay for savings, and this deletion of the child supplement index is one part of it. Finally, I would like to point out that when the index is frozen, yes — then it will be possible to return to it, as Members have said here. But now that we're not freezing the index, we're about to delete the index. I'd like to say and ask with a hand-lift vote, who really believes that we're going to get this back sometime? It's another fight. A fundamental choice of values is now being made by the fact that this will be completely removed and, for example, not frozen over the years when there will be a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u132	Mr President! Yes, Mr Salonen, I believe that with these very worrying and unfortunate measures we will be able to get Finland in such shape when we look a little further at the fact that we will then be able to share well-being with the generation to which you are now very strongly referring as a generation of children who remain in the role of the sufferer. On the other hand, I myself have heard experts' estimates that, at least with a very similar rhetoric, I would not compare these measures with the cuts in the recession of the 1990s, which were certainly disastrous. I wish we could be a little smarter now than we were then. As far as Mrs Hatainen's tax on tobacco is concerned, that is also what the government as a whole is blackmailing and raising tobacco tax and there are many takers in this proposal. For example, as I said earlier, in response to this, we managed, together with three parties, to maintain that child benefits remained a universal benefit, a right for all, and we did not make a sum reduction, as the last government unfortunately did. It would have been a bad policy to do it again. As I said earlier, I admit, and I personally believe, that in this process of managing, chewing and removing or freezing or adding indexes to them, there should be better logic, as all the most recent governments together have done. As regards the fact that what is given to families with children in these times, however, I think that this saving of central government shares from cuts and the perception of public finances as a whole and, on the other hand, ensuring that municipal tasks are not increased without additional money, is also an important policy in relation to the fact that we can do better in the services of families. Similarly, we know that many surveys show that when you ask a family with children what they want, they want community measures that support family time and better services for families.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u133	Mr President! I have to say that there was a lot of things in last year's speeches that have come to mind, and one was, for example, this 45 cent increase in the tobacco pack — the current Prime Minister. The Sipilä had then asked the tobacco men at the market in Kajaani, and the tobacco men thought that they would be ready to put it directly on the child’s supplements. I will think about what these tobacco men are saying now, who are being raised, but it is not going to go to the child's side, as promised here. Well, as far as this whole child allowance system is concerned, I think it is a conversation that I think we should have at some point. We always make these minor changes in the tightness in which we are in the current economic situation. I think that many here in some way would miss a fundamental social debate about the future of the child benefit system and how we could allocate funds specifically to those who most need them, to help those families with children who are already in a tight state, and to raise these children out of poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u134	Madam President! First of all, with regard to this tobacco tax: It is an excellent thing that the government proposes to raise it and is committed to raising it annually throughout the parliamentary term, and the increase should even be greater than planned. It will generate more revenue for the state, but above all, by setting the price of tobacco at a sufficiently high level, it will be more effective in preventing new people, mainly young people, from starting smoking. In what Mr Saariko said, I was very pleased with this idea of "services before transfer". If both cannot be improved, the services in very many situations are more important than current transfers. If we are thinking, for example, of a family of children, the more important thing in many situations is that, for example, the home service of families with children plays better than the increase in child benefit. If we think about the sick, it is usually far more important to them that health services play better than that sickness allowance is increased. And so on. So, all in all, this thinking across party boundaries is what I would really like. Thirdly, I would like to say that I do not think that it is appropriate for us representatives of the government parties to swear on this very last occasion that it is wonderful that this parliamentary term has avoided the cut-off of child supplements. We are in a situation where, for example, this refugee crisis will generate hundreds of millions more spending for the country in the next few years than we have budgeted and thought. And it may be that even child supplements are still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u135	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u136	Mr President! Real estate tax is a dual tax: economists love it and citizens hate it. In terms of national economy, central government finances and tax collection, it is an ideal tax when it does not burden work and production, but it is immobile ownership, but — and this is a large but — the resident himself believes that housing is not property but home, one of the most important things in life, necessity and value in a way that cannot be measured in money, let alone tax revenue. This is something we should always remember. Finland has higher labour taxation than other EU countries and higher consumption taxation than the average. Instead, ownership is lightly taxed — and that is not all, ownership is often taxed in a sloppy and unjust manner. In particular, this applies to property tax. First of all, the tax base is already vague and leaks like old pot. The registers of the various authorities do not provide correct and fair information on what should be taxed. According to some estimates, by making the registers correct and taking into account the real building rights used, the tax base would expand by 100, if not hundreds of millions of euros. I can't believe that in a well-organised society there is absolutely no reliable information and an unambiguous register of how this tax should actually be collected. Here — and only here — Finland resembles Greece. Part of this leads to another flaw: the criteria for valuing real estate and land are not fair. According to studies, property tax is paid most in proportion to those with the lowest value of their dwelling and the least in relation to those with the highest value of their dwelling. The structure of the tax is therefore very regressive, favouring the well-off and punishing the low-income. The previous government launched a development project to address these shortcomings. It has only been expected that preparations will be made during the next government. This timetable needs to be tightened: 7 years is a long time when attempts are being made to bring about far more significant social changes in 7 months if not a day. The aim must be to have a fair property tax in which the wealthy pay what is — no more but what is — and the low-income property tax can also be reduced at current levels. Real estate tax is not doomed to grow forever. The second point is the level of taxation. Now the government is tightening property taxation, raising the legal threshold. In Finland, 60 municipalities have to increase the general rate of real estate tax and 25 municipalities have to increase the tax rate for permanent residential buildings. The biggest percentage increases are in Puumala, Kittilä, Kustavi and Pomarku, all of them more than 15 per cent. There are two-digit growth rates in as many as 25 municipalities, in small municipalities, where the population is already mostly decreasing. But the most noteworthy thing is that in Helsinki the property tax will rise by nearly 6 per cent and in Espoo by more than 7 per cent, and there will also be an increase in Vantaa and Turku. So living in metropolitan areas increases, which is poison to an area that should lead to a new rise and growth in Finland. People who are already working cannot afford to live in the capital region, and what is equally important is that people who want to work here cannot afford it. So it's just going to get harder. If the government were to act vigorously in favour of building and access to housing — or at all — it would be possible to treat the tightening of the property tax more than with extreme concern, especially as the greatest pressure on immigration is concentrated in large cities and leads to a more serious deficit in affordable housing. Mr President! In view of the above, we propose that the bill be adopted without amendment and that two statements be adopted. The statement of objections shall be as follows: "The Commission requires the Government to monitor the impact ofits operations on "The Parliament requires that the government should reform the taxation of real estate so that the tax base is more
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u137	Madam President! I would like to support the impetus expressed by Mrs Haraka. I am very concerned about what Mrs Harakka was carrying in her own speech, including in relation to the price of living. This has been a long-standing problem, an attempt has been made to make various solutions. But what is worrying today is that quite a few weakenings of the government at the moment will lead to a higher price for housing — and not least to what Mr Harakka, for example, pointed out in his own speech that these state aids are now being severely cut in order to build affordable homes. Now could be the time to do a very big operation to build more affordable rental housing for us. This would be an important question in this time period. The second point that Mrs Harakka drew attention to was that it is certainly necessary for real estate tax to be carried out in the longer term, with rapid action, of course, so that it could also be fairer as a form of taxation. I agree that property tax is never a very pleasant tax, and citizens often worry about it. It would therefore make more sense to reform it structurally so that it would be fairer. This is not so much about the level of real estate tax. Well, that's a common definition then, isn't it? But it is important that, in principle, it treats people more fairly and with a higher level of income. This is what we're doing in our ponies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u138	Madam President! I would like to remind you that property taxes are currently collected in such a way that around 80% are collected from companies and 20% from private property owners. What Mr Harakka and Mr Viitanen said about the leak of the tax base is true. According to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, municipalities lose approximately EUR 500 million per year when the notification is at present the responsibility of each taxable person and necessarily these declarations of construction or extension have not been transferred to the Tax Administration in that way, and when this notification procedure is incomplete, these shortcomings exist. In the expert consultation, we learned that this so-called development project has not really progressed very quickly, but that it would now appear that its work would only end in 2018. I agree with the criticism that it is the task of both the Committee on Finance and the Tax Section to try to speed up and put an end to this tax base leakage in such a way that the municipalities can obtain the taxes required by the law. The progress of this project should therefore be monitored. I cannot see that this effort in itself is relevant to this issue. It is up to the government to press the officials so that this project can be carried forward so that the tax base leak can be targeted in the future so that the municipalities receive the tax that is due to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u139	Madam President! Mr Kalli drew attention to this structural problem. Here too, I would like to take this opportunity to speak on this second point, that is to say, on the cost of housing in general. Now that there are a few representatives of the government parties present, could you kindly give the government very serious greetings on what we are doing in this situation, when many of the measures you are doing raise the price of living and it is also getting worse structurally so that we no longer have enough affordable rental housing? Now the situation is that the government is cutting back on the state aid that is being used and directed in recent years under very good conditions to those developers who would like to build affordable homes for people, and it is predictable that, as a result of these measures, less of these homes will be built. That is why it would be very important to take serious consideration now of the big solution to what we could do together to make this situation better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u140	Mr President! Regarding Mr Kalli's valuable speech — a small correction — I would point out that this working group of the Ministry of Finance tells us that this reform of the valuation system will be completed around 2019 in the schedules of the state administration's ready software project. That's why I used that year. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a problem with the old-fashioned nature of this valuation process and the fact that it does not respect the current values of housing at all. One of the reasons why this preparatory work has certainly been delayed is that when you read the Peltola report from the Ministry of Finance last year, it turns out that the problems are really so deep and extensive and that, once and for all, the collection of this tax is so flimsy and unfair that it is not so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u141	Madam President! First of all, Mr Viitanen, the weakness of the various subsidies is that they want to leak into the wrong place, and many subsidies specifically increase the costs that we are here to blame. The aid must be targeted at the right person, but general support is increasing, unfortunately, the price of various rentals. Therefore, it must be very careful to prescribe it so that it is directed specifically to the person who primarily needs it. In my view, there is no contradiction between Mr Viitane and Mr Haraka as to how this tax base should be allocated in the future, as the legislator intended in the case of real estate tax. That is why it must be translated into a competitive neutrality between the various entrepreneurs and, of course, ownership is taxed here. It is also known that many times the owners are unequal and, in the case of death and others, it may become an unreasonable burden on them to pay the property tax, but the purpose of the tax is precisely to tax the property, and unfortunately there is little we can do about it. It is up to all of us to support the government in putting an end to this tax base drain and we will get a proposal as quickly as possible that treats both ground and buildings in a fair way and that is equal to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u142	Madam President! The support that I have just spoken about was the aid paid through the State Housing Fund, which, when people are building rental dwellings, makes the price that a person will pay for it more reasonable and much cheaper than at market rates. In this case, Mr Kalli, it is precisely these subsidies, which I referred to — the own resources of interest subsidies and the start-up grant — that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the price of their dwellings and which are the ones that make the general housing market more affordable. I would venture to say that it is quite catastrophic that, in this very situation, these conditions for aid from the Ara Fund are now being undermined and cut. It was absolutely scandalous when the government planned at one point that, for example, the entire support would be taken away from the construction of student and youth housing. Fortunately, then, the Minister came to a better career in that way when he later announced that he would withdraw the weakening of this support. I would hope that this could also be considered with regard to these others, because we cannot now afford to take action that does not provide enough affordable rental housing for people in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u143	Mr President! I understand in itself the concern expressed by the Social Democrats about this availability of affordable housing, and now we are likely to see a further deterioration in the situation, especially in growth centres, as a result of this migration crisis. However, I would like to go back to the idea put forward by the Social Democrats that the structure of the property tax should be made less regressive. Well, I understand, of course, that the idea is to equalise income differences, but the problem is, first of all, that property tax must be collected quite effectively as it is at present and, on the basis of the consultations between the committee and the tax section, it is not particularly easy to move on to this less regressive approach. Well, then, as another matter, when this tax is collected from the owner of the property, it would be very difficult to prevent this tax from falling into rents, so this regression is also problematic at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u144	Mr President! As I have already said twice here, in addition to this tax base, the problem is that the valuation of real estate and land bases, as has already been demonstrated by two studies by the VM, does not correspond to their actual fair value at all. So we have two problems here: we have this tax base problem and we then have the backwardness of the valuation of these properties. This leads to an extremely regressive tax, as I have already said. Beneficiaries pay property tax in proportion to their less valuable dwellings, and property tax on worthless dwellings or low-value dwellings is paid proportionally more than it should be. This has been said by two studies, and this is a very clear road to which, in the name of justice, we have to move just because people pay tax on that property as much as they deserve, no more but no less.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u145	Madam President! To conclude, I would like to return once again to that big question, the serious question of the price of living. It has been a problem for a long time, and now the fact is that the government's choice of means, which the government is doing, does not have a combined effect on the price of living and its rise, but, on the contrary, there are many measures on the energy side, on the waste tax side, on the property tax side, on the side of cutting subsidies to build affordable homes. As a combination of all these things, you are pushing the trend in exactly the opposite direction to what you talked a lot about before the elections. Very often it was said in the debates that more affordable homes should be provided in order to contain the price of living, and now all of this that you are doing leads to a completely opposite result. That is why I have serious concerns and I would therefore like you to support this impetus, which draws attention to the fact that, in general, the impact of these measures on the cost of housing must be seen, because I believe that the tolerance limit for people is very close here, as soon as the big gap in the wallet goes only to housing costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u146	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u147	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u148	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-20-ps-53.u149	Mr President! In the case of services that live in Sweden between 1939 and 1945 that are carried home to the injured and ill in the Finnish wars, this government proposal is improved by Article 6e of the Military Injury Act. That's a good thing. This is progress. But I must and must marvel at the fact that one year after the year the veterans, the war ombudsmen, come to this Parliament to deliver the message that their money does not seem to be enough, and neither does the money given by the state, that the veterans of our wars, every one of them, will receive the necessary service. I hope that the government will continue to pay attention to this. There is still time, there are about 23,000 veterans left in our wars, and just over 3,500 invalids. I would like to see further improvements to this point as a matter of urgency.
