ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u1	The second item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Board of Directors of Yleisradio Oy. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u2	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 24. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u3	Pia Viitanen's proposal 3, Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 4, Pekka Haavisto's proposal 5 and Kari Uotila's proposal 6 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 6 proposals, then against the 4 that have won, then against the 3 that has won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u4	I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u5	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u7	Kari Uotila's proposal 13, Pia Viitanen's proposal 14 and Riitta Myller's proposal 15 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the Pia Viitanen proposal 14 and Riitta Myller's proposal 15 against Mr Uotila's proposal 13 and against the report that has been won since then.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u8	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 29. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u9	May Aalto's proposal 4, Kari Uotila's proposal 5, Pia Viitanen's proposal 6 and Peter Östman's proposal 8 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 8 proposals, then against the 5 that has won, then against the 4 that has won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u10	Mr President! I meant to press green.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u11	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u12	Mr Uotila's proposal 19 and Mr Viitanen's proposal 20 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u13	Mr President! I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u14	Mr President! Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u15	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u16	Carl Haglund's proposal 24, Peter Östman's proposal 25, May Aalto's proposal 26, Kari Uotila's proposal 27 and Pia Viitanen's proposal 28 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote on the same proposals 26, 27 and 28 against 25, then against 24 against 24 against and, finally, against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u17	Mr President! Sorry, I pushed the button a little too late, I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u18	The correction of the guard shall be marked.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u19	Madam Speaker! I was going to press "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u20	Mr President! I was going to press "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u21	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u22	Carl Haglund's proposal 31, May Aalto's proposal 32, Kari Uotila's proposal 33 and Pia Viitanen's proposal 34 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the same proposals 32, 33 and 34, together with 31, and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u23	Pia Viitanen's proposal 40 and Kari Uotila's proposal 41 concern the same appropriation. The first is to vote on 41 proposals against 40 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u24	Mr Uotila's proposal 42 and Mr Viitanen's proposal 43 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u25	Pia Viitanen's proposal 45 and Kari Uotila's proposal 46 relate to the same appropriation. Firstly, 46 proposals against 45 and then the winning report will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u26	May Aalto's proposal 50, Pia Viitanen's proposal 51, Kari Uotila's proposal 52, Carl Haglund's proposal 53 and Peter Östman's proposal 54 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote on the same content of the proposals 53 and 54 against 52, then against 51, then against 50, and finally against the successful report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u27	Mr President! In number 35, I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u28	Mr President! In paragraph 2, I intended to vote 'no', but I was late.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u29	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u30	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 32. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u31	Mr President! I meant to vote no, but I was late.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u32	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u33	Carl Haglund's proposal 3 and Kari Uotila's proposal 4 concern the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on proposal 4 against proposal 3 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u34	Mr Östman's proposal 6 and Mr Uotila's proposal 7 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 7 proposals 6 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u35	May Aalto's proposal 9, Peter Östman's proposal 10, Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 11 and Pia Viitanen's proposal 12 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 12 proposals 11, then against the 10 that have won, against the 9 that has won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u36	Mr President! I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u37	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u38	Carl Haglund's proposal 18 and Kari Uotila's proposal 19 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 19 proposals against 18 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u39	Madam President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u40	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u41	Mr President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u42	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u43	Peter Östman's proposal 29, May Aalto's proposal 30 and Pia Viitanen's proposal 31 relate to the same appropriation. The first is to vote on 31 proposals against 30, then against 29 votes against and, finally, against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u44	Mr President! My intention was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u45	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u46	Mr President! In paragraph 8, I voted 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u47	Mr President! The first thing in the class is for me to be "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u48	Mr President! In paragraph 63, I did not think I had time to press 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u49	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u50	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 16 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 33.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u51	I was going to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u52	Let's mark it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u53	Kari Uotila's proposal 19 and Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 20 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on 20 proposals against 19 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u54	Mr President! I meant to press "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u55	Let's mark it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u56	May Aalto's proposal 38 and Kari Uotila's proposal 39 have the same meaning, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u57	Pia Viitanen's proposal 43, Kari Uotila's proposal 44 and May Aalto's proposal 45 relate to the same appropriation. The first vote will be 45 against 44, then 43 against 43 against and, finally, against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u58	Mr President! In vote 2, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u59	Mr President! My intention was to vote in paragraph 37 'yes' and in paragraph 40 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u60	Let's mark them, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u61	Ladies and gentlemen! We shall move back to the third item of the order of business. Section 30 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u62	Mr President! The members of the Section for Agriculture have done a good job, and thank you very much for that. Our work was efficient and united. The Committee on Finance has added some EUR 40 million to the budget, of which EUR 4080000 is allocated to the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I shall now briefly review the changes and main points of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Mr President! There is agreement in the committee that agricultural production is in an exceptionally large crisis of profitability. There are many factors involved in the financial problems of the farms. The big problem is the fall in producer prices. Russian import restrictions also result in large income losses for the sector. Input prices have, however, remained unchanged. Weather conditions have increased losses and added additional costs. It is also more difficult for farms to obtain funding than before. The whole is difficult on the farms and the committee is very concerned about this. It is necessary to improve the profitability of farms and only in this way can the raw material needs of the domestic food industry and local and organic food production be secured. The committee stresses the need to target scarce subsidies in the most effective way possible. Mr President! The committee believes that the advisory services provided will help to secure the conditions for agriculture to operate and that the aid will at best have a multiple leverage effect. The committee adds EUR 1.3 million to the heading "State aid for the development of rural livelihoods" from which it allocates EUR 1252000 to ProAgria's expert services and EUR 48000 to the Finnish Horse Information Centre for advisory work and the development of electronic services. The committee would also like to highlight voluntary work to promote the well-being and working life of young people and add EUR 600000 to 4H activities. Village activities are also important in rural development, and more than 3,100 village associations in Finland have shown responsibility in this work. The committee adds EUR 500000 to the aid for village activities and notes that most of the state aid granted under this item must be allocated to regional and local activities. The committee will add EUR 400000 to the Agency's operational expenditure in order to implement mobile surveillance on time. Finland’s clean food and vitamin-rich natural products can at best have significant export opportunities. It is a good thing that the committee decided to support the Arctic Aromit ry for developing the conditions for export of natural products and tourism connections with EUR 130,000. The profitability of the holdings will also be improved by modernising and condensing the investment of the holdings by bringing the parcels together. The committee adds EUR 500000 to the item on support for real estate deliveries. I would also like to mention the EUR 100000 increase in research methods for the University of Tampere alternative method centre, which is developing alternative methods for animal testing. Mr President! The bioeconomy is on everyone's lips and research needs are growing. The committee is concerned about the adequacy of the operational allocation for the Natural Resources Centre, which was set up last season. The merger of the research institutes was carried out in order to improve the efficiency of the operation, but the synergies it generates will be realised with a delay. Much has already been done in Luke to reduce activities, and the draft budget means that we need to continue on a narrow line. The committee is concerned about Luke's ability to carry out his duties, as Luke has a key responsibility for recovering the expectations of the bioeconomy. I am pleased that the committee decided to increase the contribution of the European Forest Institute by EUR 400000. The role of the Institute has also increased due to increased interest in forests, but also in bioeconomy, climate and rural development. The Committee considers it important that the EFI should continue to exist in Finland. Mr President! Finally, on the natural resource economy. The appropriation for this article will increase by EUR 5.77 million compared to this year. It will provide opportunities for the implementation of natural resources and bioeconomy projects in several sectors. The Committee welcomes the fact that it has been possible to increase the budget to compensate for the damage caused by predators. The committee welcomes the objective of diversifying and increasing the use of wood and increasing its value added. This item is being cut back on subsidies, but the committee considers it important that those who have been reduced should: In this context, I would like to thank the members of the section and committee again and wish everyone a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u63	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the section of the Committee on Finance and the section president and also the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for their excellent cooperation over the past year, and this cooperation and shared understanding of the situation in Finnish agriculture and rural areas is also reflected in this committee's report. Overall, next year's budget in this challenging, difficult economic situation, where Finland is, will also have to decline here in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry - more than EUR 107 million will be spending lower next year than in the current year. In these circumstances, the committee has well identified the pains that will be associated with next year's budget in particular, and we must thank and acknowledge all the additions that the committee has made to this administrative sector. And on that allocation: The section president has just mentioned this profitability situation in agriculture, with which work has already been carried out here in the autumn of this year with these urgent measures to mobilise the crisis package from the EU in a rapid manner, to mobilise the additional budget of 20 million from the government. The insight and the statement that, as profitability is promoted, at the same time the resources of advice, especially financial advice, must also be safeguarded is a very important thing, because it may be even more important to have a little look at the stabilisation measures with professionals and outside eyes than to have a certain amount of euros added to the account or not. So this increase in the money for advice is a very welcome improvement from the committee. It is also essential that farmers' profitability and their ability to pay are affected by the fact that the monitoring of the aid scheme required by EU agricultural policy can be carried out in a timely manner so that payments are not delayed. In that sense, the promotion of digital or e-services with this appropriation to improve mobile surveillance is also a step in the right direction, and I hope that it will make it easier in the coming year that the payment schedule will not go too far either because of the delay in these controls. The background to the bioeconomy is, of course, solid research knowledge, and in that sense those observations, which the committee has made, and these increases in appropriations, for example, to the European Forest Institute, are also necessary. It is important that the European Forest Institute is located in Finland, and it is important that in these growing bioeconomy conditions we have this kind of European joint action and it has a solid base in Finland. It increases the opportunities and acceptability of Finnish forestry in all circumstances, because many times from somewhere else the strengths of our sustainable forestry may not be recognised. In this respect, the importance of this research knowledge and international cooperation is important. The savings of the Natural Resources Agency — and I must say that this government is now no longer making any further savings on the euro, but these are earlier decisions which now have to be implemented — will be reflected in the establishment network and in the reduction in the number of staff. However, I believe that after this change, the Natural Resources Centre will also be in the tiki to respond to the information needs of the sector. It is also very welcome to increase the money for village activities, as it contributes to supporting the vitality of rural areas. I will come back to a topical question. So right now, in the last few days, we have been discussing how the change in the conditions for aid and the change in supervisory practices have led to very serious sanctions for cattle farms. This is where full work has been started to moderate these losses. It is not right for farmers to be able to spend almost a whole year of payments due to a delay of a few days, especially since information on this has certainly not reached all farmers in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u64	I find that there is cause and need for a debut, a little unexpectedly like this. Now I ask those who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u65	Mr. Speaker! This is where Mr Tiilikainen and the President of the Section, Mr Wallin, made excellent contributions, and it is easy to agree with them. Both had the same main concern, and it was the profitability of agriculture, Finnish food production. That is what we all need to do all we can to improve this. Of course, it involves subsidies, their fairness, the reasonableness of sanctions, as the Minister mentioned last time, including the functioning and smooth operation of administration, the reduction of administrative burdens and also the market. President! The observation we now have in this country: We are currently feeding mass meals to our children, to our elderly, to our hospitals, to food that is not possible to produce in Finland. Finnish law, Finnish regulations do not allow such food to be produced. Nevertheless, this is what we do in mass food. We're all in this together to get this over with. In Finland, mass meals must under no circumstances serve food that does not meet Finnish food standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u66	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the President of the Chamber for this presentation. The picture of the situation seems to have been taken over in a variety of ways, as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has just expressed his concern about profitability. Producer prices have fallen, but the cost structure remains the same on farms. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry paid the right attention, and I would like to see the procurement law introduced specifically in the municipalities of Finland in such a way that it is intended to buy that domestic food in public procurement. But, Minister, we do indeed have a good programme of government, as was already the case in Question Time — the bioeconomy and clean solutions — despite the dark situation in agriculture. I'd like to ask you a question. What's going on with the blue bioeconomy program? As it says here, the section has written: 'The share of domestic commercially caught fish in total consumption is only 6%'. This is really alarmingly little in our water-borne country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u67	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen raised an important issue here. It is the recovery of aid. The general case law goes that crime and punishment must be proportional. However, it now seems that the imposition of recovery of these subsidies through the EU will lead to total excesses. There are already several hundred of these facilities, and a little oblivion, which is not a crime in itself, is beginning to follow as if it were a double punishment. The aid penalty will be extended to all subsidies, not just domestic regulations, and may result in these penalties amounting to EUR 100,000, up to EUR 200,000. How is it going to be carried forward in the EU in the same way as with the Arms Directive? In other words, when there is a real disproportionate situation, we must also call for an adjustment to the EU's administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u68	Mr President! It has become clear that the whole Parliament is concerned about the future of Finnish agriculture. The most difficult situation is that of the dairy and pig sector due to Russian sanctions, among other things. Now that Russian President Putin met with U.S. Secretary of State Kerry, they fit the same picture and even smiled at each other in that TV picture. Could it be that these Russian sanctions could now begin to be relaxed, which would give us room for our agricultural products, and could Finland then be a plow ahead of us, so that you would take this issue up in the Council of State and then across the EU, so that these unfair sanctions could be relaxed for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u69	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for returning this thought-provoked cut by the European Forest Institute (EFI). Joensuu is the European Forest Capital, and the EFI is the only international institution of this kind that is not located in Helsinki, Finland, and it is really great that we can make sure that its headquarters there will still be preserved. Within the EFI, other Member States would be happy to take this office to their own capitals, and that is why it is important that we ensure that Finland participates adequately in the funding. Now this cancellation of the operation was a very good step, but in future we should consider how we will continue to support it in order to maintain it in Joensuu. One concern I have in this budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and that is this Metso money cut. It is very regrettable that it is being cut when we know that the Ministry of the Environment is also making cuts in nature conservation money. How do we ensure that we are able to safeguard biodiversity? Metso programme has been very good
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u70	Mr President! First of all, the section must be grateful for the fact that, in its own proposals for decisions, it has brought precisely the key issues which were also seen as problematic in the committee. In fact, the Minister took a good position on the resources and conditions of the Natural Resources Centre. I am not going to argue about the fact that these decisions are the result of decisions made by the previous government, but I am challenging the Minister and the Government that, if you put the bioeconomy at the top of the project, would it have made sense to look a little bit at the rear-view mirror and wonder how these stupidities of the previous government could now have been corrected and at least instructed so that the Academy's money would have had a clear thumbprint on where to put the funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u71	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! In this regard, the Minister himself raised this amendment to the EU regulation, which is creating very serious difficulties for cattle farmers. That is because it may be a loss of support for hundreds of thousands of euros, and I am glad that the Minister has responded to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u72	Mr President! Maker's investments will enable food production to continue in the future and hopefully also enable farms to switch from fossil energy users even to energy producers for others. I would like to ask the Minister: what prospects do you see in this regard? The dismantling of standards is equally important for the success of farmers as is the work that has been done to organise the payment of subsidies and to provide crisis support. This work has been pursued with vigour in the Ministry. However, what worries me is whether all the agencies are in the same line. In last week's interview with the future of rural areas, Mavi's Director-General said that he does not have to fight red tape, he only has to follow red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u73	Mr President! I would like to thank the section and the Committee on Finance for their very good additions. As Mrs Myllykoski said, they were also long-awaited by the committee. In particular, I welcome the fact that Pro-Agria's advisory services, FICAM and this village activity have received significant additional funding. I believe that this money will go to an absolutely necessary target. I would also like to thank the Minister for having taken a really quick and effective position on this moderation. It is true that the error made in relation to punishment should be in some reasonableness — especially in the case of involuntaryness. This matter has now gone so far as to say that the faith is beginning to falter as to whether these penalties for errors are in any respect at all. That is something that must be put even more firmly on the table there at EU level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u74	Mr President! In connection with the University of Tampere, there is an alternative method centre FICAM, whose development of research and test methods replacing experimental animals is highly valued internationally. The possibilities of using human tissue research models and test methods apply to medicinal products, chemicals and cosmetics. The Minister of State is the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but many other ministries are also involved. Pharmaceutical research and development are an integral part of the growth strategy for health research and innovation. The development from molecular to medicinal product is costly and time-consuming. It is therefore important to look for ways to accelerate the entry of new pharmaceutical innovations into the market. Mr President! As has been said, the Committee on Finance decided to add EUR 100000 to FICAM's appropriations for the development of alternative methods to replace animal testing. I would also like to ask the Minister of State how further cooperation between the various ministries could be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u75	Mr President! Thank you for the introduction and thank you for the allocation of resources in the way in which good and important things were brought up. However, I would also like to raise a few points here. The solution of national aid for next year will come to a situation in which a unilateral decision will be taken by the State. The reason is, of course, the lack of money on the part of the state, but how will it be ensured that we do not feed on the funds of the years to come? This year's payment is going a little long, and it's going to be cut off from next year. What is, of course, even more regrettable is that this crisis support, which will now be applied for — or tomorrow will be the last day for pig farms — will now be charged pro-actively for the 2018 aid. So this is just the long road that should also be able to secure that funding for the coming years. Then, to the extent that it really affects 450 farms and the greatest sanction, over 200,000 individual farms, regional aid is a one-off amount, which could lead the farm to the brink of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u76	Mr President! The milk can is not filled by itself, and it requires a lot of work, especially for the farmers themselves. In the autumn, I visited Juha-Matti and Minna Laiho’s dairy farm in Kärkölä. I also met their friends and colleagues from different sectors of agriculture. Together, they produce us all clean Finnish food, which is of very high quality even internationally. The Finnish agricultural entrepreneur has been very strict this year, as has been the case in this debate for many of these reasons. Moreover, there is concern that the share of trade in food prices has increased for several years at the expense of producers. The producer needs a fair price for his work. It is important to work to improve the competitiveness of Finnish food production in a long-term and effective way. However, in this economic situation, it is not the most cost-effective way of responding to producer problems that funds are transferred to the Agricultural Development Fund. I ask, Minister Tiilikainen: what does the government intend to do to improve the transparency of the operation of the fund and the direction of Parliament's budgetary powers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u77	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Tiilika for the ease of appreciation for your work. The dismantling of standards is one of the key projects of this government. On behalf of unnecessary standards and unnecessary red tape, I would perhaps encourage a reassessment of the tasks of the Rural Development Agency and an open-minded reflection on whether the agricultural administration could even be so radically dismantled that the tasks of the Rural Development Agency would be restored to its own department, for example in connection with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, while preserving the functions of the local rural secretaries only from the current model. This proposal would seem to have support from the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u78	Mr President! This issue of red tape on dairy cows, cattle, sheep and goat premiums, which has been raised, relates to EU legislation, and that is where the worst problems are and should be affected. Such a one-day game is not in any way reasonable for a normal person. After all, this is an old code of conduct, the maintenance of the animal register at the Agricultural Accounting Centre, but this directive, which tightened sanctions, did not come into force until 28 May this year. And this has been very badly informed — both Mavi, Evira and the Agricultural Calculation Centre. Of course, they say that they do not have any information. But I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: what is the timetable for this to be made clear that Christmas will also come to these farms? Yesterday I got a call from Laitila, EUR 150,000 on the question, and here, if the result of the farm goes down, it will be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u79	Mr President! Mrs Wallin raised an important issue, namely these Russian sanctions, and I myself have visited farms more than usual now and have been shocked by the heavy burden on farms, farm entrepreneurs, above all on dairy farms, and indeed on the whole food chain. These Russian sanctions are quite a lot of foreign policy, EU policy, but they are much more than that. And I have noticed that in other EU countries we are discussing whether or not we can begin to dismantle this coercive practice, and now that the United States and Russia can, are getting closer and more relaxed, has the strategy in Finland been considered from the point of view that Finland could be in the right position to be at the forefront of this relaxation policy because Finland bears the heavyest burden?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u80	Mr President! As many speakers have heard, world policy events have a direct impact on the income of milk producers in particular. As long as the Russian border remains closed, the domestic market will be filled with dairy products, and smaller dairy farmers and farmers operating on the domestic market will be more severely affected than ever before. Under these circumstances, the abolition of standards should be implemented and implemented quickly. I ask: Why do farmers have to play detectives and check orders and instructions from the Ministry, Mavi, Evira, Tukes and others? Why are instructions and regulations scattered in so many places? There is no official who controls the whole area, which the farmer must currently control. Could things not be piled up in one place, preferably one where there would be competent and service-sensitive officials who would check the papers before all the world’s instructions are allowed to be allowed to be bullied by farmers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u81	Mr President! We all know and recognise these current profitability problems in agriculture, and we must do everything we can to overcome them. However, the future must be looked at and the possibility of investing in agriculture must be maintained. The previous government swore to the names of electronic systems and, as we now know, it was a complete failure. In other words, in the past year there was not much investment in agriculture. It also had a significant impact on industrial jobs in the sector — many companies were forced to lay off. The reason was that the Hyrrä programme did not work and apparently still does not work as desired. Is the Ministry now going to pay attention to these issues of the functioning of the electronic system?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u82	Mr President! I am sure we all agree that Russia's sanctions are hitting hard on Finnish food production. But at the same time, of course, we must bear in mind the actions that Russia has done in Ukraine, and these are two serious issues. Finnish agriculture is in a difficult situation for many reasons, but Finnish food is good and clean, Finnish food employs Finns. 15 euros will add 15,000 jobs to Finnish food or secure 15,000 jobs. The labelling of food's origin would be a welcome addition for our customers in the store. In what way is this season to go forward to establish the origin labelling of food so that people in the store know whether they buy Finnish food or where the food has come from, and of course the same could also be asked of restaurants that the menus of restaurants could include labels on the origin of the food?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u83	Mr President! 4H is the largest youth organisation in Finland, whose importance is now strongly emphasised in these difficult times. It has been a real shame that, over these years, the Ministry has drastically cut 4H's operating appropriations, and then systematically, year after year, Parliament has again returned appropriations. 4H employed 8500 young people in various activities in the current year, i.e. more than any single youth organisation. Among other things, it organised three steps towards working life to support the life management of a young person, Driving licences for working life, which provide young people with different experiences in working life, and so on. Minister, would it be possible, now that I know that you know the 4H system, that you could now contribute to this continuing sawmilling?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u84	Mr President! A few speeches have commented on this payment by the Rural Development Agency, and I will use a few words about it. Farmers have made very good contact and have found that payments are late. They have invested, and the investment bills are due, and farmers have invested precisely in order to receive these subsidies on time and then be able to pay their loans. Since, for reasons beyond these farmers, payments have now fallen due, farmers have had to take out a loan to pay off the former loan. Thus many have suffered losses of up to several thousand euros. Farmers ask questions when, for reasons beyond their control, they lose money, whether the government has ever considered how to compensate them, for example, by coming to guarantee or in some other way to assist farmers in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u85	Mr President! The Minister has certainly done everything possible for this sector and for agriculture during his term of office. However, as the Minister himself said, despite the decline in profitability in the sector, the level of investment has decreased, the intellectual capacity of farmers has been very hard on the test. In the context of this budgetary feedback debate, I have traditionally asked one question to the ministers in this area: what do you say in such a situation to those who are planning to change generations, perhaps future farmers, young farmers, young people who are thinking about this sector for their own trade? The Ministers have traditionally been very keen to answer this question, and the esteemed Presidents have also always wanted to give time to that answer, so I would like to see time for this also this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u86	Mr President! Unfortunately, only a small fraction of the various berries, mushrooms and herbs of Finland’s forests and swamps, as well as by-products of trees, are recovered and exploited. However, interest in natural products is constantly growing both here in Finland and globally, i.e. there would be a great deal of demand and growth potential. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see the potential for growth in this sector, and how can organic and local food be further processed more effectively, both as export products and as products that benefit the tourism industry? And thanks must be given to the Arctic Aroms, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u87	Mr President! I was very happy to read this content of the budget book. This has been well taken into account in the plight of our agriculture and agriculture, and it has been well dealt with in comparison with the previous years. I must also thank the Minister for that swift action. There has not been a gap when these issues have been raised, and nitrate regulations and other things have also been made in good cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. But the concern in this budget book is, of course, these cuts in the state finances, and thanks to the Finance Section for providing additional funding for, among other things, 4H activities, village activities, FICAM and also ProAgria. That is a concern, which is what the budget book actually says is that it is a challenge that support systems are simple, that the administrative burden is light and that the quality of legislation is good. The previous governments have tried to lighten this administrative burden, but if it is reduced in that way, the backbone of agriculture will no longer stand. I very much hope that the burden of governance will actually be reduced and that Mavin and these too will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u88	Mr President! Good Minister! The previous government set national organic targets for Finland, and I understand that these have also been accepted by the current government. In other words, in 2020 20% of Finland's arable sector must be in organic production, and in 2020 20% of the food provided in public food services must be organic. Now, in addition to the use of pesticides, the main problems of the Finnish food system are the large share of imported food, i.e. a deficit of up to EUR 3 to 4 billion per year. Similarly, we import a lot of organic food, which means that only 60% of the organic food sold in stores is domestic. The Organic Institute was established in Finland at the end of 2012, and its coordination unit is located in Mikkeli. I ask the Minister why there is no money in the budget. The work of the organic institute?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u89	I will give two more speeches, Mr Kulmala and Mr Anttila, and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a few minutes, and then we will proceed with the debate, so that everyone will certainly have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u90	Mr President! As has already been said today, under the rule introduced this year, animal premiums for cattle, ewes and dairy cows will not be paid throughout the year if the notification to the register of animals has been delayed for one day. If a large number of animals are excluded from the premium, the farmer may lose the aid for the animals notified in good time. The losses of animal premiums may amount to thousands or tens of thousands of euros per farmer. The change means that many farmers waiting for the first batch of animal premiums during the Christmas week will be very disappointed and even Christmas gifts will not be bought. The planned payment of debts and Christmas on the farms that have been penalised for delay will be discussed how to avoid bankruptcy. There is now a need for urgent measures to prevent the bankruptcy of bovine holdings resulting from excessive aid provisions. That is why it was excellent to hear from the Minister that there is an intervention. But the decisions won't make it this Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u91	Mr President! I share the thanks that have been expressed here both to the section, to the committee and also to the minister. These Russian sanctions were raised in several speeches and it was said that they should now be able to be lifted. With regard to the dismantling issue, I fully agree that we should gradually get on that path, but the underlying problem is that the Ukraine crisis is still going on and, in the interests of honesty, it must be said that the EU Commission is not innocent of the problems that have arisen in connection with the Ukraine crisis. The EU was given a little too much hope for what can be done in Ukraine's direction, and then the situation is what it is. The only problem now is that that market has been lost. It is no longer very easy to get them back, because Russia has replaced them in another way. And then the question of whether these sanctions may be extended: unfortunately, there is clear information in this House that the European Union will be proposing that they be extended for at least six months. This is the current information from the Foreign Affairs Administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u92	Now the minister either from the scene or from the toilet for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Expert comments and questions came right from the conveyor belt, and I try to pick up some answers from them. Many raised this very imbalance in errors and sanctions. Yesterday, when I was there in Brussels, I heard about this that hundreds of farms are now facing this problem, that the update of the animal register has been a few days late and that it may be a question of sanctions of thousands of euros. Since last night, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Director of Mavi have been looking for measures to be taken now in the framework of the EU regulation, and I must say that this situation is similar to the fact that it is also worth taking a little risk, which the Minister will take if necessary, to avoid excesses. In any case, as in the past, these will be lost and the farmers will know. But many have not only done it by accident, but because some important work, sowing or harvesting, which is essential to the operation of the farm, has taken the farmer's hours of work around the clock and it has been thought that once the work has been done, we will return to the papers, and the consequences may be so fatal. That is totally unacceptable. That's pretty much it, a few other comments. This situation created by Russian sanctions: I also met the Russian Minister for Natural Resources in Paris. It was the first ministerial meeting in about two and a half years. In other words, relations must be maintained, but indeed this decision on sanctions is the decision of the European Union, which is not decided by the Minister for Agriculture, but it is certainly good to keep relations in order with our neighbours. There was also talk about the pace of payments here, and now, to a large extent, the problems related to the fact that this aid period changed, and now, in fact, this autumn, it has been possible to tighten up the payment programme somewhat, but for farmers struggling with liquidity problems, every euro would be very important to get on time, and that is why this work will have to continue in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u94	Mr President! There is no doubt that forestry is one of the pillars of our economy. It is therefore a good thing that in this report the committee has emphasised the need for adequate access to wood and for increased value added. Indeed, we need to focus on the availability of wood when we recognise that the owner base is growing older and even lives in cities. During the last parliamentary term, Minister Koskinen raised a debate on tax carrots for forest owners in order to increase the size of forest holdings. Among other things, he suggested that forest taxation should be developed in a more entrepreneurial way, such as that if you did not sell wood for a certain period of time, you would lose a tax relief, or similarly, if you sold forest land to another forest owner and made the farm grow, it would give you a carrot. Minister Tiilikainen, I'm sure you know him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u95	Mr President! This government inherited the previous budget, in which this year's farmers' income decreased by around 7 per cent compared to 2014. These cuts mainly focus on national aid to Southern Finland, i.e. former 141-aid and northern aid. Given the seriousness of this economic downturn with which we are now struggling, I understand that these cuts cannot be compensated for now, despite the fact that in the previous parliamentary term the main category of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was saved in proportion to other sections. But I think it is necessary and very good, as the Minister has said here, that there will now be no significant new cuts in farmers' payments for 2016. The land economy is struggling with serious difficulties and profitability problems and can no longer withstand the first aid cut or production cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u96	Mr President! I would like to continue with that question from the Estonian representative. Now there is such a situation that the climate has changed and logging is very difficult, especially during this autumn. We're gonna have to go out there for the summer harvest ladies. Would it be possible for a minister to intervene, for example with tax carrots, to improve the security of wood supply during such a time of decay? For example, in this kind of situation, could it be possible: for example, we now have a really bad situation, trade is a lot, but not to make the forest wood move?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u97	Mr President! We are really moving forward with the year of the exchange of the EU's programming period. It brings problems together because of trade in Russia and the bad economic situation, and profitability is a very big problem. Next year, we have to do better than that. Minister Tiilikainen, you have made a good speech in the EU, calling for less bureaucracy, including more risk-based controls, with a clear reduction in Finland's control, and a rationalisation of the review of areas. From my own experience, I know that the EU is sometimes slow, and it really is now required to have a high level of influence that actually happens in the EU. It is also a project in the EU, cutting red tape. Are you prepared to put your shirt on the line and, if necessary, take the matter to the level of the Heads of State so that we can really get it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u98	Mr President! Minister, that is how you are in the hybrid office, and I believe that you have the very right attitude and competence, in accordance with your hybrid post, to promote both the vitality of agriculture and forestry and the environment that is responsible for all our children. In this way, perhaps at the focal point of the two ministries, there is the rotation of nutrients — that is, in essence, the whole of agriculture. However, how well those nutrients circulate and how much is flowing into the waters is the biggest thing to replace us in the Archipelago Sea. In this respect, I would have asked you that, when we live in scarce times, one of the few investments that this government, fortunately, is able to make is the additional contribution of the Agricultural Development Fund, which, of course, revolves around resources, so how is it possible for you to see that even more could be encouraged in this Makera's rules to invest in such investments, such as higher aid rates, which at the same time promote, for example, the abandonment of imported oil for biofuels or the promotion of the nutrient cycle in every way? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u99	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for restoring the core capital of the European Forest Institute (EFI) to the level of EUR 1 million. In other words, from the proposal that the government left, that initial capital was increased by EUR 400000. But we must remember that the level of EUR 1 million has been maintained throughout its existence, i.e. for 20 years. It has not changed, except now in the last two years, when the Parliament received the increase of 250,000. However, this is very important if we are to consider the climate agreement that was reached in Paris: we need scientific knowledge and international contacts more and more. The European Forest Institute is the body that can ensure these for Finland, such as how carbon sequestration is calculated, how forest sinks are calculated, how forest land inventories are made. This is very important to us, and I am sure that we both hope that this institute will continue to exist in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u100	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for understanding the plight of farmers and for the vigorous efforts made to alleviate this plight. As has been heard here, agriculture is currently in an exceptionally difficult economic situation. I therefore consider these entries to be good. Among other things, relief is sought through advice on the financial distress of farms with an investment of EUR 1.3 million. This additional allocation for the activation of village activities must also be welcomed in that this communality will be added to the villages as this money will be available to support village activities there. Another important achievement is this capitalisation of Makera, which will now ensure that these agricultural investments increase, so that we will continue to have a competitive farm economy. It is to be hoped that these electronic systems, both the Hyrrä and the Support Search System, will:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u101	Mr President! There have been good speeches here. I would have brought a message from a young couple. They were in contact with me on the recovery of the aid this autumn and complained that all last summer they had been seeking an official from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry who was the only one dealing with the agreement on the recovery of the aid, and they had already gone to the enforcement check, and they were very upset there with this mill business. In other words, it would be desirable if there were sufficient and capable resources if the person had to stay away for a long time. This was very alarming that there was only one person who cared for these in the whole ministry, and there was a young couple waiting in shock, but fortunately they survived. That it would be nice to hear a small word about this, how to ensure that there is sufficient resources. As members of the Animal Protection Club, we met with the people of Evira. I would have asked how the Animal Protection Act was going. That is where the Animal Protection Commissioner is now, unfortunately, going away in due time. How's this work coming along? That would also be a good competitive advantage. Many people want to choose the meat of a well - kept farm animal. Now it has also become contacts that people have experienced,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u102	Mr President! I would like to extend warm thanks to the Committee on Finance and to the section for the fact that the European Forest Institute received this money at the last minute, and likewise, on behalf of the 4H organisation, I dare to say thank you for allowing this good work to continue. However, I would like to see a more permanent arrangement in the budgets for the coming years for both of these to be made so that action can be developed and planned. In the case of the Forest Institute, for example, I find this situation quite unreasonable to live in constant uncertainty and yet internationally valuable activity. But I would like to ask about this major predatory policy while I live on that eastern border and people in rural areas are afraid. The wolf situation has gotten out of hand, the wolves are running all over the villages. We are going to have an experiment in which next year, too, this so-called stock-management hunting is taking place. I ask you, Minister: is it intended to consolidate this good practice and to bring about a situation for people in rural areas that is safe for them to live in their own region?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u103	Mr President! The Government's proposal was based on EUR 100000 for FICAM, an alternative method centre for animal testing, for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. This activities of FICAM in the context of Tampere University are based on the EU Directive, which therefore seeks to replace animal testing in an ethical and otherwise more acceptable way. Firstly, I would like to thank the section of the Committee on Finance for the fact that an increase of EUR 100000 is now being made. FICAM is actually operating on a very small budget of around EUR 1 million. Funding comes from the direction of OKM and there are different types of project funding. How well does the Minister know this FICAM? And then, on the other hand, when you are sure to know it quite well, what opportunities do you see in commercialization in the development of this activity? Would it be possible to think that this funding would be more permanent in the future, so that every year it would not be necessary to continue to try to make this small addition to what is, however, very important for the operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u104	Mr President! What is not right and fair may not be a law. I must thank you, Minister Tiilikainen, for having internalized this, you will hear the distress call from the farmers, which at the moment comes from these many very unreasonable things. Now, the last thing you said you were going to do is to deal with this animal register thing. It's a big deal. It's important. If the sanctions talk about tens of thousands of dollars to hundreds of thousands of euros, they are quite unreasonable from human error. You've been very quick about this. The Nitrates Regulation is a good example of where common sense has been gained here in decision-making and also moderated in that respect, and that is good. However, I would also like to encourage a more reliable level of work, for example, in the Rural Office, and I would like to ask: what can we do here in the decision-making process so that farmers can have better confidence?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u105	Mr President! 4H is a valuable piece of work and it is a pleasure to see that the committee has received an additional EUR 600000. In Lahti, Finland, the 4H association keeps almost in the middle of the city in Marola's livestock yard, where residents can get to know both farm animals and many other animals in the courtyard of the farm. This is not the case in every city. Today there are many urban youths and also adults who have never seen a cow, for example, on the side of a milk carton or on TV. So I ask the Minister: how can we get the children of Congestion Finland and adults to learn more about farm animals than on a plate? This would enable them to learn to value quality living conditions for farmed animals better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u106	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Räsänen, Mrs Maijala, Mrs Wallin and Mrs Leppä, the chairman of the section and committee, and then to the minister, and then to those who have not yet received the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u107	Mr President! Although this is about next year's budget, I thought I would ask the Minister a few views on how, when we look a little further into the future, our food production will also play an important role in how this climate change is being combated. How does our food production develop and become increasingly ecological, and how do we find new ways to produce that food? As has been referred to in many debates here at the University of Tampere for this fine work, it is also a vision for this future food production. I was thinking of saying that there the students have been thinking, for example, that vegetables would grow in mobile cases in factory units in the future, light would come from LEDs, water vapor instead of soil, and robots handle logistics and automation systems for nutrients and irrigation. I would have asked: could you describe for a moment how you might see the future of this food production, and perhaps the means by which we would increasingly gain access to more ecological food production?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u108	Mr President! Thank you for having given due attention to the predatory situation in reindeer husbandry for the first time and for the first time in a long time. All we have to do now is make sure that the payments are made in time. But compensation does not address the real problem of the damage caused by the beasts. The most important thing would be for us to reduce the damage caused by the beasts. The situation is that the number of reindeer has fallen by more than ten thousand and the number of slaughters has really fallen down in recent years. We should have measures to deal with these. That is why I ask: what are we going to do with this glutton setting, is it making progress? Then the most important thing: what are we going to do about the bear? Above all, the fact that the hammers are not coming is because the hammers are now disappearing during the summer, and it is entirely proportional to the fact that the number of bears at the same time has exploded in the hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u109	Let us now move on to the second round with the speeches of the section president and the chairman of the committee. In addition, there are still those waiting for their first round.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u110	Mr President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry made an important trip to Seinäjoki this autumn, and a rather long and thorough debate took place in Mavi. It was a good and wide-ranging conversation. It became clear at that time that all the reasons that have now emerged are not just from Mavis, because Mavi’s information systems are managed by the Land Survey Board. This is why we also invited the Director-General and Chief of Staff of the Land Surveying Board to the section for consultation, and it then created this additional money for those mobile devices to make these information systems work in a timely manner. We in the section have very good cooperation with the committee. We have a joint seminar in the Land Survey Board in February, where we will address this problem. I would also like, on behalf of the opposition, to thank the Minister for his excellent work and I would just like to conclude by saying that these subsidies should always come on time, yet Mavi has been able to pay the second fastest in Europe in the autumn. Ireland was the fastest and Finland became the second, and the others only then followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u111	Mr. Speaker! The bioeconomy sector is a sector of the future, which is also the case today, both in Question Time and now in this debate, many times proven, and this is the case. Of course, the focus is on the production of raw materials in Finnish forestry and Finnish agriculture. We must do everything we can to ensure that the conditions of production, the conditions of operation are such that profitability is maintained. It's perfectly clear. The market and the functioning of the market are, of course, the main components. In my first speech, I drew attention to the fact that we have special legislation in this country. So here we can feed in public food that is not possible to produce in Finland. This is unheard of. We have to be able to stop this. The second point, Mr President, is that our food, our production is the most clean in the world, researched and proven, with the least hormones — practically not at all — antibiotics, residues of plant protection products and so on. It's premium food. It is not possible and the market cannot operate in such a way as to try to sell it as cheaply as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u112	Minister, max. 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u113	Mr President! Mr Leppä raised quite the right point, that is, those who make public food purchases must be given more information on how to demand products in accordance with the way in which we are produced. So not Finns, but meet the same standards. This is an important point. Congressman Tavitsainen spoke of creation. It is a very important and one development in our agriculture, a growing sector, and it is being promoted. Now, at the last stage of this site network reform of the Natural Resources Agency, I wanted to ensure that: Mikkeli will remain the focus of organic research and Luke will take responsibility for the Organic Institute in 2017. So in Mikkeli, organic research continues. A lot of people were talking about forestry. This strengthening of research — I am trying to get the funding of the EFI on a more solid basis next year, that it is not just a matter for Parliament always. But these different tax reliefs for generational change and entrepreneurship-like forestry: forest reduction encourages the growth of farm size, then generation changes are to be made to work from the beginning of 2017. To throw Mr Hakkarainen at the question of whether, in particularly difficult circumstances, there are still some incentives, I am not yet in a position to respond. The capitalisation of Makers also raised some criticism, but it is now clearly well understood what it is seeking. It calls for Finnish agriculture to be able to invest and improve competitiveness and profitability in the long term. As a result of these capitalisations, investment to improve animal protection, investments in renewable energy and investments to improve the agricultural condition of the soil was able to increase that support. Thank you for that. As far as the predators are concerned, Mr Hoskonen, it is precisely the intention that this two-year, now experimental, wolf's stock management hunt should continue. Here are some of the main points.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u114	Thank you, Minister. He'll get another chance to go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u115	Mr. Speaker! We have rightly been concerned about farmers' livelihoods, and we must thank the Minister for that, he has responded well to these various issues, and I think that the work of the committee and the sections in the interests of farmers has been good. There has also been much talk of Russian sanctions here, and I would also see that everything must be done there to make them easier. But I'd like to ask you a whole new question. The farmers need to make a living, new openings. The outlook for the bioeconomy is positive and is strongly supported in the Government Programme. There is a bioproject in Kymenlaakso: a bioplant is entering the premises of the former Myllykoski paper mill, which contains straw and raw materials from the mill industry. What are the possibilities for the Minister to make a contribution to this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u116	Mr President! I will return to this management hunt for wolves, and thank the Minister for being able to understand the problems of people who are concerned about this ever-increasing wolf population. I received a letter from one of the delegates at Tohmajärvi that they have actually found themselves in a situation where a herd of 16-headed wolves revolves right on the surface of the village and even runs along illuminated light traffic routes where the children go to school. This question may seem trivial, but when, for this reason, the municipality has to resort to school rides and take a taxi for these children, is there a system for the municipality to be replaced, because wolves are under the protection of the state in a way and the municipality is, as it were, harmed by beasts? That is what I wanted to ask the Minister directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u117	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about these dismantlings, and I would also like to stress in this debate the point of view that we are constantly coming to these new standards, which are not even being discussed here in Parliament, but different criteria and standards, for example, when it comes to granting subsidies. How are we going to deal with this when we have a new standard, that we are not in constant difficulties with these, and that we are making it difficult for farmers to make a living, for example? Then there has been talk that the bioeconomy must rise, that there will be tens of thousands of jobs, up to 100,000 jobs to come. How will it be ensured that we will have more professional forestry entrepreneurs and experts and, for example, wood in connection with construction? It is well known that our vocational education and training currently does not meet the needs of companies, and young people will also receive feedback that their skills are not currently sufficient and this makes employment difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u118	Mr President! I would like the Minister to have time to comment, too, if the President mercifully gave even more than 2 minutes at some point — such a humble request to the President — on the issue of this Luke and then the Academy, in a way, what kind of hand the Minister is now going to insist that the government's own top project, the bioeconomy, will have its place in research and development. Now that the reduction in Luke's funding made by the previous government at the time is a fact, I would like the Minister to open it up a little. With joy and sadness, when the chairman of the committee, Mr Leppä, caught up in that important matter, we must make origin labelling in such a way that we do not produce or feed our children something that we ourselves would not buy, which is chicken produced in Thailand and so on. We must be able to take a position on this, and I hope that you will take forward this origin marking in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u119	I will now give the floor to Mr Honkonen, and I believe that everyone who has asked to speak has at least once had the opportunity to speak. Some have gone for the second round and the second round will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u120	Mr President! As an enthusiastic rural developer, I am delighted that the state aid for village activities could be maintained at this level, which is what the report of the Committee on Finance is now proposing. I also think it is very important that village communities of different sizes, as has now been pointed out here, be it a rural area close to the city, a sparsely populated rural area or a core rural area, can be further developed and the vitality of these village communities can be supported. However, I would have asked about the problems of rural development. There has already been reference to this Hyrrä database, and many rural developers have experienced it as a problem. Leader action groups, for example, use this same software, and it certainly eats up a lot of resources, including time resources, from people who do the practical rural development work. I would have asked the Minister if there would soon be an improvement in these information management systems of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u121	Mr President! Many of the speeches here have drawn attention to the fact that children no longer see animals and thus become aware of where food comes from. However, the 4H activity is an activity that often organises theme days and other farms, so that it can be seen then the true origin of food, and that is why it was important for us in the Committee on Finance's Agriculture section to increase the amount of State aid for 4H activities by EUR 600000. The second question is that we should also get models from that Central Europe for the exploitation of the bioeconomy and for the development of space-specific bioliquids and electricity generation systems, because I see that this would also be a good source of income for farms in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u122	Mr President! For these public food purchases: Now that the procurement law is being drafted — I know that there is a person from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in this working group — I would like to see a clear statement in the explanatory notes that it is quite permissible to set quality criteria and thus support domestic food purchases in accordance with the Government Programme. There can be no way of doing it, as Mr Leppä said, that we are here to regulate one thing and on the public side we are using products produced under different rules of the game. So I would like to see a strong cooperation. Then I would like to add my thanks to the fact that nature policy has been carried out with confidence and fair means to commit locals, for example, to the protection of large predators and to give room for stock management hunting — 46 permits are fine. But I would also like to ask about the use of forest resources and electronic services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u123	Representative Kari and now still representatives who you ask and want to use more speeches, I hope that you will get up and press the V button again, that we get an update of this kind, where exactly are we going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u124	Mr President! For us Social Democrats, work is at the heart of politics — all work is valuable, enterprise is valuable. And about this food sector: this sector employs about 300,000 people in Finland, so the food sector also plays a key role from the work point of view. However, I renew my question about Makera. The future of Makera was studied in a working group set up by your ministry last season. This working group concluded that this Makera system should be reformed, in particular in a way that supports transparency. Do you, as Minister, know the conclusion reached in this working group? Have there been any results in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u125	Mr President! Although these predatory matters have already been on the agenda in many ways, they are still on the agenda. As has been said here, the number of wolf stock management permits had now increased considerably, and according to the Ministry’s instructions, the Ministry recommends that new permits be allocated to young wolves that cause harm or damage. But I would also like these permits to be targeted, how to say it now, regionally, if necessary, and I am referring, among other things, to Kainuu, where in a particular region this is a real problem, there are a number of herds where the damage caused by them is unquestionable. In other words, perhaps the question is whether the Ministry can think of granting these new permits for landfills in a clear regional context.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u126	Mr President! One of the government's top projects is the bioeconomy. I would like to ask about these CHP power plants, which can produce both heat and electricity: how much has the government invested in this? This may belong to Rehn's side, but... For example, sawmills — I am talking about the sector that I know — produce a lot of by-products. Now the by-product is driven hundreds of kilometres away at cost and can be up to 30-40% water. We drive water from place to place. Why is it not transferred or converted on site into energy, heat and electricity, so that excess electricity can be fed into the grid and used in it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u127	Mr President! The debate has also raised the issue of village activities and the activities of the 4H organisations, which, in the course of the committee's deliberations, received additional money. In order for such village activities to be successful, what is the minister’s view of the future of wide ranges in the countryside? Farmers, agriculture need good broadband, fibre connections to make the technology play. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that the government talks a lot about the dismantling of bureaucracy, and we also have a beach plan and, in general, planning in rural areas. There is also a lot of business there, and these entrepreneurs want farm tourism and the like. How do we react to this: can this planning perhaps be facilitated by the ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u128	Mr President! Now that a good climate agreement has been reached in Paris, it also requires a wide range of action from us. Wood grows in the forest more than ever, but is it the right kind of wood that binds coal in the best possible way? And then, when we build this new bioeconomy, is it something in which it retains carbon sequestration? These must be the kind of things we need to think about. What way, Minister, do you think that such information and perhaps updating your skills will then be taken to that practical forestry? According to climate panel surveys in particular, more robust wood is needed for the use of the sawmill industry, which would then also keep this coal for longer in this round.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u129	Mr President! Here's another one of these su-sit felling permits: After all, last season we may have had a bad time in more areas, because the administrative court dealt with these complaints for so long. Has this period of appeal been taken into account in the granting of permits, but this will then be made available in the spring before the snow leaves? Another important issue that has been discussed here is this overall picture of forestry, and the development of the bioeconomy is very good, these key projects. Get the wood moving and get new products from the forests. However, we have a lot to do if around one third of Finland's forests are in poor management at the moment, and it is the associations, such as the Forest Management Association, and many others are good advisers in that regard. I can see that even though the mhy law was changed, they have remained at the forefront of time. But one question: here it is proposed to delete the article, Smallwood Energy Support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u130	Mr President! It is good that the forestry sector has now also made a strong contribution to the debate. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister when the very big problem we have at the moment, when we want to promote bioenergy, is that we want to promote sustainable forestry, because we have a very fragmented structure of forest holdings. After all, we included in the government programme the promotion of generational exchanges. I'd like to ask you where this phase is going. The second question relates to this same issue which Mr Kalmari has already raised, these electronic systems, for example, in relation to forestry subsidies. It would be good if you could tell us about their development, because there are problems here. Support can be sought for trout management, root roll control and so on, but the system is not at the level that it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u131	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Mikkonen, Mr Mykkänen and Mr Anttila, and then to the Minister, if it is not absolutely necessary for someone to speak. — Mr Maijala seems to have one, that is to say for him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u132	Mr President! As we have heard, farmers have been in a very difficult situation throughout the autumn because of this economic situation, and there is also concern about saving holidays. Fortunately, the committee has now found a better solution than those worst fears, but it is still necessary to ensure that farmers are able to cope, and I am sure it is worth watching how this system works. We know that when a farmer is well and able, he also takes good care of his productive animals, for example, and this is the will of all of us. Mr Meri raised the question of the suspension of this post of representative of animal welfare. I think it is very important that this should be maintained, because it has been a good link between the various players, both producers, researchers and organisations, and we know that consumers are increasingly interested.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u133	Mr President! The Minister replied to my question that yes, the percentages of aid provided by Makera create a differentiation to support nutrient cycling, the replacement of oil. Thank you for that. When we have an ambitious and necessary target in the government programme for 50 % of manure to be processed effectively in 10 years' time, one of the key issues is, of course, that organic domestic fertilizers should have a natural, efficient logistics distribution and demand. In this context, when I have been thinking that on the transport side we have had a very good start with the increase in the share of biofuels in which the President-in-Office has played an important role, would it be possible for us, on the agricultural side as well, to impose an obligation on the fertiliser industry to mix some kind of domestic circulation? It could start from very small percentages, but it would create a clear sinkhole that would then trigger demand, and the big companies would create a process by which this is effectively achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u134	Mr President! A great many speeches have already addressed the very poor profitability of the agricultural industry, which is indeed the greatest threat for the future. The problem is that the value added generated in the food supply chain is not passed through the chain in a fair way to its operators, but the strongest part of the chain is taken over by the trade. After all, trade margins have been growing significantly all along. In addition, trade has gone down the road of falling, and so does the trade. According to the studies, the consumer has benefited by around 7% of the price of the product, although the price of the product has been reduced by 20%, i.e. the trade takes it for itself. To this end, I would like to ask, once the Government Programme states that it would be possible to adopt a producer and industry organisation law. It would create an opportunity for a particular negotiation process throughout the food chain. My question to the Minister is: is it already in preparation, and what is its timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u135	Mr President! Thank you for allowing me to add one more thing, the wolf question. Mr Korhonen made a good point about the wolf population situation in Kainuu. There are deer in Kainuu, the number of which has collapsed so much in recent years because of wolves. So now I would like to ask a question: which is more important, the fact that the forest deer in Kainuu generally survive and exist, the position in question, or the fact that we have a living wolf population there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u136	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u137	Mr. Speaker! Minister Tiilika is also to be commended for the fact that there has now been a strong involvement of realism in this whole bioeconomy, and he remembers that the natural law is, however, the one that defines quite a bit of the foundation of this whole sector. That's good. The same must be done through the entire administration. After all, there is also a record in the Government Programme that one step of the agricultural administration is falling away, and I hope — and I believe so — that, as the preparation goes ahead, it will take place in a particular way, not in an administrative way, but in a farmer-oriented way, so that there will also be no additional costs for the sector which will not tolerate any new costs once and for all. But I believe that this is, and I am sure we all believe, entirely possible, given what Mr Tiilikainen has done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u138	And now, Minister, let's say now, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u139	Mr President! I'm trying to take down a lot of questions. Mr Myllykoski asked about this, that when Luke's budget is reduced, could the Academy's budget not be allocated to this strengthening of the bioeconomy? There are many research programmes where bioeconomy research can be applied for, but you are quite right to have to strengthen it, because that is where Luke's money has been transferred, that it is also possible to get back there. Many people spoke about origin marking, including Mr Heinonen, and this is the intention of moving forward on a voluntary basis in the EU, not to create unnecessary red tape by being forced to go on origin marking, but to be able and imagined to benefit from it on the market, to be willing to invest in that origin marking. I believe that this is how we move forward. Many of these electronic information systems have pointed out that they have been slow or still have not been fully operational. For example, it is these project applications: Even if those decisions are now made by hand, then payments will not be made until that Hyrrä system works. As far as farm investment is concerned, now that Hyrrä should be in good shape, as far as I know. Among other things, Mr Kalmari asked about electronic forest resources data, and it is intended to be promoted as the government's top project, because up-to-date and accurate information about forests is also a prerequisite for electronic timber trade, plus that it is a prerequisite for the reduction of the Kemera bureaucracy to which several Members referred in the next few years. In fact, that small-wood energy support has been specifically transferred to the Kemera support system now in the future, that there will also be such harmonisation. Many representatives asked about this energy side and, of course, they are now being resolved in the context of the update of the climate and energy strategy, and this carbon sequestration of forests is an important aspect. We have the happy situation in Finland that forests grow tens of millions of cubic metres more per year than they are used for, so at the same time we can increase the industrial use of wood as well as the use of energy, take care of biodiversity, and yet we still have that positive carbon sink, as long as our forests remain productive in the future. I've already mentioned that those increased percentages come to certain cases. This transparency: Of course, these investment subsidies have their own criteria, and they do so. Then, in these various development projects and studies, which are on the basis of applications, there are, of course, criteria for how these aids are granted. Wolves, regional targeting. Now we have 34 to 38 herds. 46 Promises to know more than one permit per flock, and surely the direction of these two promises per flock is taken into account. To the extent that Mr Mikkonen took on an important issue, the survival of farmers and the relief that is also a prerequisite for good care of the animals. It is an important observation that in order for farmers to be able to carry out their work well, Finally, I would like to return to the question raised by Mrs Korhonen on the subject of generational change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u140	Ladies and gentlemen! At this stage, this section 30 will be suspended and the debate will continue later this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u141	Let's get back to section 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u142	Madam President! For understandable reasons, the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is faced with the same problem as other parts of the state budget, which means that it saves money when the situation is what it is. It is good that Makera has received more money, and I will give it a very high value, because if we do not invest and do not make sure that the production equipment in agriculture is maintained, it will be in direct proportion to the future functioning of the food industry in this country. And even this current situation in which we live, that is, because of Russian sanctions, for example, food trade to the east has virtually stopped, not indefinitely. That is why agriculture must continue to be maintained in this country, and precisely so that the plight of farms is affected much more effectively. Much has been done, of course, but the little money we have had available for it is probably not enough. From the market, I would like a little more traction on this job, because it is not just government money that can make a difference. On the other hand, on the forest side, one might say that now that we have received a positive message from this Paris climate conference that Finnish forests continue to be counted as carbon sinks in full, that is a good thing. But I would still like the Minister to negotiate these issues in the EU on forestry, so the sustainability criteria for renewable energy would not limit the use of Finnish energy wood, because that would be a fatal mistake for us Finns, because Finland's real and only natural resources are forests and the benefits from it are a huge opportunity for this nation. And now, if we cannot make full use of our own forest resources because of some administrative provision, we are in a very bad situation. On these two points I would like to draw attention to and I hope that during this year's start in forestry, we will be able to take steps forward so that the use of forests increases, investments are made, domestic wood is processed further and more wood buildings are made in this country than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u143	Mr President! I am not going to deal with the agricultural section numbers here. Only a few of these ideas about what I think is currently the situation in Finnish agriculture. After all, there has been such a trend in the agricultural sector as to equality, that now all main production trends are very unprofitable, whereas earlier, about a year ago, milk production was much more profitable than others. So now equality has been achieved, everyone is justly unprofitable. There are also some liquidity difficulties on farms, and the general situation is that at least one of the spouses is employed and yet the money is not enough. It is also known that market output can only survive in some very rare sectors such as horticulture, perhaps. Then there are many forms of support bureaucracy, as, for example, today we are dealing with a very unfortunate situation in those dairy cows, cattle, sheep and goat premiums, when this kind of one-day delay takes up the entire form of support from the farm for a whole year. This is the case with this general situation. In fact, that is why I came here, and I think that we should also deal with this agricultural indebtedness situation. The traditional answer is that the situation is reasonably good, that the industry is not overly in debt, that a small part is just in debt, perhaps between 10% and 15%. But the rest are the coolers, whose farms are quite likely to stop producing. They are the very ones that have invested, often moved to young farmers, where the situation is quite sharp. There is a lot of debt, there is really no prospect that the capital of its debt can be reduced to a minimum, and the interest rates can now be paid when we have this blessed crisis of the euro, which keeps interest rates at a morbidly low level for who knows how long. Farmers are often very satisfied with the euro, that it is a very good currency when interest rates are so low. They love the crisis in the euro. If the interest rate rises to 4% to 6% of what is considered normal, then you can start to beat on some farms. As long as the guarantees remain — and the guarantee is in practice agricultural land, the economic buildings and agricultural machinery do not have very much of a guarantee value — as long as the value of that agricultural land is maintained, of course, as long as the banks are relatively satisfied when they receive interest. But if that interest in the purchase of land outside agriculture decreases, then it is very near that the value of agricultural land will fall sharply and the banks will begin to claim more guarantees, and then there will be a field for sale. We should do a proper survey of this agricultural situation this season. Now, things have largely been settled there until the end of 2020, but for that, we must already prepare for a slightly more analytical approach to these agricultural problems from 2021 onwards and then secure the continuation of the production of these able-to-do farms in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u144	Mr President! The economic situation in Finland is weak, and there are a lot of things in this administrative sector that should have been more widespread and more, because the bioeconomy is right here, and we really need a lot more to get Finland to do more economic development. But for me personally, this is Kemera, a section of the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act, to which I would really have liked to have had more funding at this stage for the regeneration of under-productive forests. So the Kemera Act came into force on 1 July 2015, and last winter we discussed this issue that why the regeneration of underproductive forests was excluded. It was raised at that point in these additional texts that it could be re-examined this winter or later. However, that is not the case here either, and what this means is that in Lapland, especially in Central Lapland, half of the forests are currently being renovated with the renewal of under-productive forests with Kemera support, and now this has been completely excluded. In a year's time, at the latest, this issue will have to be re-examined so that we can ensure that the private sector can continue to develop forestry in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u145	Mr President! Finnish agriculture is currently experiencing an acute economic crisis. There is no way of doing so-called good in any direction of production, nor can we really talk about a fair result. Many sectors of production, particularly meat production, are in a position to discuss the end and disappearance of even whole Finnish production directions. The situation is the sum of many factors. We are part of the common European agricultural policy and we live in the conditions of European agriculture. But, of course, a major factor has also been foreign policy: the things that have happened between Russia and Ukraine. It has come as a blow to dairy farms in particular. It has not been possible to export dairy products to Russia in the old way. However, the crisis in agriculture is also a continental crisis. Even at European level, there are challenges in many sectors of production in terms of profitability, and even on the streets of Brussels — close to where these agricultural policy decisions are taken on the whole continent before the Commission — there have been demonstrations of what is currently going on at European and global level. Here in Finland and in Parliament, we must do everything we can to facilitate the situation of farms and build a bridge over this crisis in our national hands. However, the prospects for the future are such that, in 10 to 20 years' time, the world's population growth, climate change, natural and environmental degradation will create a situation in which there may be even a shortage of food here on our ball. And that's where good and efficient food production and food security go up to a whole new value that's unpredictable. The key element of national agricultural policy that needs to be taken into account is that the agricultural subsidies that belong to producers legally must be paid on time. And it is impossible and incomprehensible that if there are challenges in the administration, if there are challenges in the functioning of the authority, then the beneficiary — the farm undertaking, the rural enterprise — and the producer, the individual — will be the sufferer. This cannot be the case. On this point, I would like to comment on the debate on the role of the Rural Development Agency, which has also been raised in this debate today and this evening. I cannot understand and accept the fact that the Rural Development Agency has not been able to pay subsidies and subsidies in a timely manner, referring to information systems problems and information technology. It is important that we now find out openly and fairly what is wrong with the work of the Rural Development Agency, where the bottlenecks are. In the future, the administration must act in accordance with our principles of good governance, including on the rural and agricultural fronts. However, in this criticism of the work of the Rural Service, even the right criticism, there have even been certain aspects of the hunt and the witch hunt. There is no patent solution, no finger-clicking solution, the abolition of the Rural Office and then all the problems in Finnish and EU agricultural bureaucracy disappear. I dare say, although there are not enough farmers and producers in the Rural Development Agency to understand, that there is more understanding of farmers and producers when the Rural Development Agency is located in Seinäjoki in the middle of the fields, in the middle of the real food region than in South Helsinki. I therefore hope that, together, we will be able to develop the regionalised rural and agricultural sectors and the activities of the Agency so that everything in the agricultural administration can be properly managed. I also find it unacceptable that there should be a strong increase in inspection fees, particularly for livestock farmers, who may have inadvertently missed certain studies a few days away. Sanctions for minor errors in agricultural declarations cannot lead to unacceptable sanctions and must reflect on the fundamental pillars of our rule of law and our legal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u146	Mr President! This state budget is now as good for agriculture and forestry as it can be in this state financial situation. It is not perfect, of course, but as good as it can be under these conditions of recession. So I am not going to comment on any items or budget changes, but I thought to say a few words about general agricultural policy developments, which have in fact been moving in the same direction for years — or perhaps even a decade. The development I am concerned about is that the best possible economic result may no longer be the best possible production, the best possible harvest, the higher quantities or the efficiency of production. The European Union support system, which has been amended several times, has caused distortions which may have led to the fact that non-production can be more profitable in terms of food production. In fact, in many situations this is already the case. This is not a problem if important natural values are produced, rare sites are protected or, for example, water bodies are effectively protected. But if, in part, it has already happened that this is going to normal fields, then there is a risk that the legitimacy of the agricultural policy as a whole may be called into question. Food production in Europe has started to be supported when there was a shortage of food. Since then, the Union's policy has gone through a number of steps from restricting production to supporting food production and increasing quantities, changing trendily over the decades. At present there is support for the sustainability of food production, support for the pluralism of various green values. But I am afraid that the agricultural aid system will not be on a sustainable basis if, in this political value, support for other values and other values goes beyond the purpose and values of food production itself. That is why it should be possible to reverse this development. Food production should always be more profitable than non-production. Support schemes should always encourage the best possible harvest levels, the most efficient production, the use of state-of-the-art technology, the targeting of the right farming measures on the right countries at the right time. At the moment, the support system does not do this in all its respects, and I believe and hope and trust that the government's key bioeconomy project will address this problem as well. I do not believe that, in the long term, our support system will be on a sustainable basis if, in support of food in agricultural subsidies, which are primarily intended to reduce the price of food for consumers, all the other values and factors become more important than the food itself and its price and its values. This is also a problem at the moment for farmers, for farmers. Policy has been tempting, the EU has set objectives and changed its objectives over a long period of time. Farmers would also like to produce clean Finnish food in Finland, with the highest possible yields in sustainable ways, and they would also like their income for this particular food production, the price of food, but at the moment the price of food is so low, the producer prices are so low that the importance of the subsidies has grown to a great extent, so that farmers are suddenly forced to react to what support changes and the production of the food itself threatens to be sidelined. But I therefore believe that this budget, which is now under discussion, is one piece of the way towards getting the bioeconomy to focus on agricultural subsidies and agricultural production itself to produce food, to produce quality Finnish food.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u147	Madam President! According to the Government Programme, Finland will be rewarded for its hard work, work and activity. Our growing economy is based on good management, strong entrepreneurship and ownership, and the utilisation of the resources of Finland as a whole. The Government Programme must therefore focus on these issues. Each administrative sector has set social impact targets for 2016 derived from the Government Programme. One of these is that competitiveness will be strengthened by improving the conditions for entrepreneurship. These are, in my view, essential aspects of the EAFRD's business subsidies and their payments. Once again, the decision-making and payment of the EAFRD project and business support under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has been seriously delayed since the start of the new programming period. The current EAFRD programming period will cover the period 2014-2020. The application for grants started in spring 2015, and the payment of the grants to the applicants’ account has only been announced to start in early winter 2016. Therefore, applicants for aid are at their worst forced to wait an excessive period of time for the payment of the money into the account after the submission of the application for funding. In particular, the payment of business subsidies should be started as soon as possible. The EAFRD’s business support is intended to support the initial phase of the start-up or the expansion of an active enterprise into a new sector. During the past year, many entrepreneurs who plan to invest have decided not to invest in full or to postpone it because they have not been able to know when the subsidies will actually start to be paid to companies. This has slowed down the development and growth of small enterprises in particular, as these companies typically do not have any extra money to invest in. In the current economic downturn in particular, the smooth application and payment of aid would have been an important practical help for businesses. For entrepreneurs, it is important that the search for and payment of subsidies is smooth and does not unduly deprive the entrepreneur of valuable working hours. A smooth application and payment process would strengthen companies' confidence in business support and increase and encourage their use in business development. Many entrepreneurs have a negative preconceived view of the bureaucracy, the paper war and the slowness of the process related to business subsidies. Unfortunately, this view is in line with reality at the moment. The Rural Development Office is responsible for the payment, inspection and control of rural development aid. It prepares and provides guidance on the application and payment of aid and is responsible for the public control of the aid. The Ely Centres' business, labour, knowledge and cultural responsibilities are regionally responsible for the application, payment and other implementation of support for rural development. Mr President! The start of the new programming period has been known for several years in advance. The information system should have been put in place in good time so that no such delay and consequent damage on the business development front could have been created. 1080 company aid applications have been submitted and 1478 project aid applications have been submitted. Applications submitted electronically under the Hyrrä system accounted for almost 90 per cent of all applications. So it is not a very small amount. Yesterday morning I asked Parliament a written question on the payment of corporate subsidies. On the same day, according to a press release published by the Rural Development Agency, the timetables for the decision-making and payment of aid to rural enterprises are clear. That's good. According to the press release, the payment of business subsidies will be possible from mid-February. The Ely Centres for Rural Project Support will start to take decisions in January, and the timing of the payment of project grants will be reported later. Thus, these subsidies did not reach Christmas but stretched beyond the limit of filing the application. I do not consider this to be acceptable in any way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u148	Mr President! One last speech on agriculture and, at the same time, on forestry. As I said, this section is extremely important for Finland. This is not more than our bread and also our livelihood. In the Finnish landscape, the importance of forestry still represents a fair fifth of Finland's GDP. Someone said it's a little under — it's true statistically, but when you count with clean domestic inputs, the importance of forestry is extremely important. Mr President! As far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to say that this nonsense, which relates to the payment of these various subsidies, and the delays that are taking place there are, in my view, totally unacceptable, unacceptable, and I cannot understand the fact that the National Agency for Rural Development in Seinäjoki has so thoroughly screwed up this job. Until now, Finland has relied on the activities of the authorities, and that authority's reliability has been an honour in Finnish society, but it seems that this is no longer the case with the Rural Office. After all, it is incomprehensible that, for example, when paying on time, the argument is that a computer program does not play. With the banks delivering millions of transactions every day in the blink of an eye, you would think that there would be a computer nerd in that group who would put this thing in order without having to hear such half-baked explanations to listen to the computer program not playing. Well, if you don't play, you're gonna have to put those kind of employees in there to get the job done. The arguments that have been made public about the Rural Office are not credible, I find them absolutely ridiculous. One important, central issue of the Government Programme is the dismantling of bureaucracy, and on the agricultural side, if any, this section of the Government Programme should be perfectly successful. There is so much red tape in Finnish agriculture that will have to be dismantled as efficiently as possible. It goes without saying that when public money is distributed and given on good grounds for different purposes in agriculture, it always involves a certain amount of management and thus achieves its legality and transparency. It is self-evident, but this kind of unnecessary bounce and bureaucracy – for example, the examples mentioned and heard during this debate that payments can be reduced, the aid can be reduced because of some slight statistical error or, for example, because the area of the field is not exactly the same this year as it was this year – must be made available once and for all. It is not in the present and it cannot be justified by the fact that an EU directive says so. The important task of agriculture is to produce good raw material for Finnish food in this country and so that the employment of 300,000 people is secured throughout the food chain and, above all, the Finns receive clean food so that we can continue to enjoy it and, above all, safeguard the public health of Finnish people. If we eat food products that contain pesticide residues or other poisons every day, you know what this affects the health of Finns. Hopefully, in this respect, the consensus of the Finns is enough to keep the Finnish food chain operating directly from farms to the Finnish food table. Mr President! Two final remarks. In the case of fraud, a good situation has been found in the country. These damage caused by large predators will be compensated for in full by state resources, and the state must ensure that hunting dogs, for example in the reindeer-keeping area or, for the hunter’s sake, are replaced in full — even today, there must have been a hound dog or deer dog that has lost its life torn by wolves. Since the state can afford to sustain these great beasts in this country, then there must also be a purse to pay for the damage that has been done. And the stocks must be kept in such a way that the future stock will be so small by hunting that such damage will not occur. In the current situation, large predators have become accustomed to humans, so that they go around the courtyards and berry bushes without fear, and we have to get rid of that situation, and it is only managed by sensible hunting. Finally, as far as Metsähallitus law is concerned, when this belongs to the main category of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Metsähallitus' affairs, the new law must be put in place so that it will be of benefit to this nation in the future. The absolute condition is that Metsähallitus' land and forest assets, the property of our Finns, remain in the unambiguous ownership of the Finnish state without any risk of anyone being able to access the national property of Finns, for example through the incorporation of companies. That must never happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u149	Mr President! In the last four years, I have come to this point when it comes to the section of the administrative branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which has always raised the issue of fraud. Now I am pleased that there is at last enough funding for this, because it is likely that next year there will be a great deal of this fraud. But now I hope that in the next few years we will no longer have to set aside such a large amount of money for this purpose, but that we will now actually be able to take measures to reduce this need, i.e. things of a different nature: for example, the glutton regulation will be brought about, in order to actually reduce the damage caused by the wolverines, and, in addition, the bear side will be able to take proper measures to ensure that no damage occurs. And you don't know, even if those beasts hurt the spawn, I don't know how this is going to happen. But I hope that in the future these funds will be needed to compensate for this less fraud.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u150	Mr President! As has been referred to here before, the main electronic systems for these agricultural support schemes, such as aid applications, arable aid and investment project aid, have been unfortunately uncertain. In its own opinion, the committee has rightly addressed this key issue, which adds to the mental burden on the agricultural sector. During the past summer, many farmers have struggled with administrative problems related to the checks and experienced uncertain legal protection in relation to the checks. I therefore welcome the development of electronic systems for checks on aid, and the committee has also drawn its attention to this. In future, I still think it is important to make all electronic systems fully operational and reliable so as not to impose additional mental and economic burdens on farmers. It is very positive that this problem has been seriously addressed and that, hopefully, sufficient resources have been allocated to the development of electronic systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the final round of the budget debate before Christmas is an extremely important step in the course of the year. All the speeches are important, interesting. However, there is always one over the others and the most expected one in the final straight line of the first budget of the parliamentary term. — Mr Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u152	Mr President! Indeed, all night long agricultural policy has been discussed, and so it should be. But I must say, Mr President, when born in Tyrvai, that it does offend me when we have not yet said a word about it. I was just thinking about fixing it up a little bit. The fact is, however, that we have such a noble, stubborn animal who deserves to be mentioned here in our Parliaments in the budget debate. There's a lot of familiar symbolism about this animal. It adventures in many folklores and animal phrases. This is also how a stranger, especially a child waiting for Christmas, carries a name related to the animal in question. We have been talking here in the Chamber about cows, pigs, foxes, wolves, minks — many other animals. But indeed the kuttu has not been mentioned. Mr. Speaker! As early as 83 C.E., Timo Roos, from the same place with me, handled the kutu skillfully in his own speech, which suddenly became a tradition for Parliament. I was handed over by Mr Pirttilahti, who also had the merit of dealing with the spawn last year. Likely, the spawn has been close to his heart throughout this year. Unfortunately, in my speech this year, I am not discussing the calorific value of wool, because winter is not so far along. Rather, the kuttu greens beautifully at these temperatures. Mr President! The kuttu is an animal that milks about five gallons of milk a day and has been called a poor man’s cow. It's an animal that smells like ammonia. In fact, it is very similar to the smell of sweat familiar on many occasions. If it's a strange smell for colleagues, then on Christmas break it's a great place to try out how sweat smells. The kuttu is a challenging and patient animal for the owner. It eats up time when the barn wall and hunger may find its udder — of course, Mr Alatalo called them breasts, even the source of milk — and sometimes even take a sip of it to its biggest hunger. This, of course, makes the producer less able to produce milk. But it's still not a stupid animal. Through fast Googledness, we found news in which the kut has also become friends with the tiger. In my opinion, this shows considerable negotiating and adaptation skills, and in that case the tiger was even reported to have tried to teach the spawn how to hunt. Perhaps we too should follow the pattern of spawning in some areas. In the early stages of the European Union, since 1995, agricultural budgets, national support solutions even had their own section on national support for spawning. These subsidies have now melted into zeroes in the south, but fortunately in the north they are still supporting the production of spawning milk. This European Union's support policy, together with national policy, has driven the spawns towards the north in Finland. This does not mean, of course, that Mrs Majala should send the reindeer back in return to the south; keep your reindeer. But even with the guidance of the tiger, the kuttu did not learn to hunt — nothing to worry about there in Lapland. Mr President! With modern developments, dairy robots have become more common in agriculture. A special high-tech mobile robot is also being developed on spawning farms. Moved because the kuttu is so chief that you don’t know where to find it at the time of milking — you may even find it at Santa’s place during mating. There has been a lot of spawning in Pirkanmaa and Satakunta, and especially in Tyrvaa, where I was born. It's been a country-famous spawner. I live there myself, and the kuttu plays a major role these days: milk producers as well as cheesemakers are still in the keeper. In addition, the kutu is still visible in the old coat of arms in Tyrjua and also in the logo of our volleyball team VaLePa and in the figure of the Sastamal writer Mauri Kunnas, Mr. Hakkarainen. Mr. Speaker! By the way, did you know that we can make musical instruments out of it? Where I come from, the local band Pukinsarven The tramps are going around the county like a piece of rock on their axis. In addition, the spawn’s milk has also been further processed into shower gel. Also likely to be found in well - equipped grocery stores next year, even at night. It is also suitable for washing the body, even though it is completely off-white. You'll have to guess the smell. In the future, very good care must be taken of the species of such a diverse animal. The solution is, of course, a diligent increase. The kuttu is an effective breeder, since Kili reaches sexual maturity at about three months of age. The kuttu chooses his mates, just like many other animals, based on the size of the individual and the great horn. Mr President! But that's for mating the spawns. Let's move on to a completely different subject. The horns of the Santas also provide well-being, just like the horns of the reindeer, and as a bullock, of course, from the horn of the spawn and the horn of the Santa, it is precisely the horn of the Santa that is even more effective. They can be further refined to people, mainly men, a extract that literally improves the condition. Last night I received an e-mail where the population growth in Finland was reported to be the slowest in all the Nordic countries. Thus, the fibers may also have the keys to population problems. Mr President! For me, however, the kuttu symbolises above all the pure Finnish food that is needed in this country both now and in the future. The sweaty smell of the fiber tells us of the hard work that producers do every day to keep our own food production alive. With this speech, the spawning talk also returns to Tyrvah, where it can be considered to have been born in its day. This speech is for pure Finnish food, and when we talk about it, it is a very important case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u153	Now we're going to the section of the Ministry of the Environment. President of the Section, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u154	Mr President! Above all, I would like to thank the Minister for Administration, but also the Committee on Finance and the Housing and Environment for the active and good work we have done on these issues, and also our excellent committee adviser, Mari Nutila, with whom we have been able to work this autumn. The draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment is EUR 198 million, and the majority of housing grants and interest subsidies are also financed by the State Housing Fund. It has to be acknowledged that there is a mismatch between the objectives, tasks and resources available in the environmental management sector and that overall the resources are very limited. The committee is particularly concerned about the resources of the regional government to carry out environmental tasks. For example, there is a risk that even the most high-risk sites cannot be inspected under the Industrial Emissions Directive, and the need for adaptation will also have an impact on the handling of environmental permits. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Environment Minister has launched a number of development measures aimed at maintaining high-quality, efficient and effective environmental management despite the scarcity of resources. There are a number of legislative reforms underway: electronic licensing system Extension of authorisation and control information system Watch, among other things. Separate financing of moisture and molding ends in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment. According to a report received by the committee, the decision on the principle of the programme has been taken and the development measures have been taken into legislation, training and practice. However, work on moisture and home issues must continue. The grant to organisations and environmental management is EUR 366000 less than this year. It mainly supports environmental organisations, environmental management in the archipelago and fell areas, housing organisations and environmental education. The cuts are large, and especially for a long time the committee held a debate on the activities of Saaristo Siittina ry and its ageing and new service vessels. The committee felt that it was also necessary to adjust boaters' waste charges to reflect the actual costs of waste management, as has been done for other operators. A few words about environmental and nature conservation. It has been possible to increase the budget for the fight against environmental damage by EUR 500000 for next year, which will target the fight against oil and chemical damage and capacity building. Some environmental expenditure, EUR 2 million more for the Baltic Sea Waters article than in the year ending. In 2016, water management plans and an action plan for marine management for 2016-2021 will be introduced. This will also focus in particular on improving the state of weakened coastal waters and rivers, and here there has also been funding for key projects. More than EUR 3 million less has been allocated to Metsähallitus’ public administration tasks than in the year ending. It includes half a million euros to prepare the new national park to be established in 2017 for the celebration of independence. This appropriation maintains our national parks as well as the development of hiking areas and investment in their management through Nature Services. The transfer sewers were also one of the subjects we discussed further. The committee notes that no further appropriations were proposed for this article to support the transfer sewers in accordance with the Spring 2014 Resolution. However, the committee felt that it was necessary to allocate state aid to projects in progress so that they could be completed, thereby proposing an additional budget of EUR 3.13 million for the completion of the three transfer sewers. There is a significant reduction in the purchase and replacement expenditure for nature conservation areas, and the Committee considers it important that limited funding should be directed towards the most important areas for conservation and to the most representative and complementary sites for existing protected areas. Ship investments include a reserve to strengthen the oil response capability Grants for repair activities: Correction, energy and health benefits will be significantly reduced. In the event of a reduction in the budget, it is important to target it even more effectively. According to the draft budget, the State Housing Fund is estimated to spend a total of EUR 200 million on the payment of housing grants and interest expenses in 2016, and EUR 47 million on the state budget proposal. The Housing Fund is prepared to support the construction of some 7500 new interest-bearing dwellings. The committee considers that increasing affordable housing is a key objective of housing policy and welcomes the fact that increasing housing construction is also one of the following: The Committee also considers it necessary for start-up grants to be allocated to other MAL regions where funding is sufficient, so that the amount of the grant can be allocated to the other MAL regions. could be half the sum of the Helsinki region, for example, and the growth corridor thinking Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere, Helsinki-Lahti and others emerges.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u155	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u156	Mr President! Thank you to the President of the relevant section of the Committee on Finance for this proposal, and I thank the Committee on Finance for this good report. Although these additional resources did not fall into many areas, that report had identified many important issues, as it were, for further reflection on how these scarce circumstances would then be able to manage these key environmental issues well. Since we have this economic situation, as you know, Finland is still in debt, over our resources we are living, then the savings have also been allocated to this environmental administration and, in particular, from that point of view of the acquisition of nature reserves, these savings have been sought. In that sense, you must be happy and happy that the Metso mode of operation, i.e. this voluntary forest protection in Southern Finland, will continue. Although there the budget cuts now affect the fact that a smaller number of hectares can be acquired for protection, it is very important that this activity continues. At a time when the use of forests for industrial purposes, for energy purposes, is being increased, it will also be possible to preserve diversity better when nature reserves can still be acquired on this scale. That addition to this side of the sewer project is certainly important in completing these ongoing projects, just as the section president said. At the same time, however, it is worth mentioning the principle that no more such grants will be made in the future. Well, what's the next step? At this point, I would like to highlight the major challenge that has already been outlined in the Government negotiations and the Government Programme. We must now move on to this treatment of waste water, as it were, into a new age and thinking. So far, when we have done just to try to prevent as effectively as possible the discharge of nutrients in waste water into the water and then have been concentrated and scrubbed along and along the country of Finland and dug up transfer sewers, which then lead the waters to efficient treatment plants, the new challenge now is how, in the spirit of the circular economy, to get those nutrients from the wastewaters back into circulation in the fields, without endangering the cleanliness of farmland and human health. The acceleration of this thinking must be very important in this government's circular economy project, as has already been referred to here a little earlier today. But let's finish these ongoing transfer sewer projects. Surely they may continue to be built. But, as it were, a new era in this sewage treatment must now be taken and able to set out for a more sustainable future on that basis. With regard to water management, I would like to say that perhaps the most attentive representatives noticed that some weeks ago the plans for water and sea management were confirmed for the coming years. This is part of the government's top project. Our aim is to restore the Baltic Sea to good condition and also to improve the condition of these inland waterways. These plans have brought together a huge number of measures, which have been discussed at regional level as to what will then be taken forward. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to this year's biggest environmental decision, the Paris climate agreement. That will certainly affect us in Finland in the coming years. It gives us the bindingness, effectiveness, coverage that Finland and the EU have set out to apply for in the climate negotiations. At the same time, it offers a large number of opportunities for Finnish environmental business, clean solutions. We must be able to take advantage of this now in the future and, for example, with these key project funding, to create opportunities for the new pilot projects, the demos that are needed if we are to look outside the borders for export, as is, of course, the intention. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u157	There will be a debate and I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u158	Mr President! I will start with this Paris agreement, where Minister Tiilikainen left off. That is a really great achievement, and one of the things I am pleased about is that it has been identified in figures, which is the difference between the emission promises made by the countries to date and the two-degree warming limit. State emission plans for 2010 are about 40% too high to limit global warming to less than 2°C, and of course the difference is even greater when it is decided to reach the 1.5° warming limit now. There is a lot of good in the government's bioeconomy plans, but it must be borne in mind that the protection of biodiversity must be balanced with the plans to increase the use of forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u159	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent work in Paris. Even as a very small country, Finland gained a very good position there, when Minister Tiilikainen was the main negotiator for the EU as a whole. A great thing about this climate agreement in many ways — the time of selfishness and irresponsibility is hopefully over. I would have asked the minister about the status of forests. In previous agreements, forests have been seen as carbon sinks, the decline of which has been curbed. But now it's there. There was a slightly different position in Paris, and in 2020 there will be a further discussion on carbon sinks, but I would have liked to have been more specific, which are Finland's steps to take into account these well-managed forests as excellent carbon sinks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u160	Mr President! We have one of Europe's largest landfills in Finland, Ämmassuo, and next to it is also a massive rock, rock and stone mining site. There are more settlements around the landfill on both the Espoo and Kirkkonummi sides. The landfill causes noise, dust, vibration and odour damage. Among other things, cyanide and carcinogenic bad compounds have been found at the sampling point of the bitch’s water. In the autumn, a health survey was conducted for the residents of the area affected by the landfill. According to the results, there were health damage and negative social effects in accordance with Article 1 of the Health Protection Act. I would like to ask the Minister how, in this economic situation, the health of the residents of the affected area of this landfill, which is almost profitable for the entire capital, will be secured in accordance with the various mining sites and example, while, among other things, the resources of control will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u161	Mr President! It is very gratifying that the Baltic Sea has been on the table in the Government Programme and now, for example, with the circular economy, the subject will certainly continue to be on the agenda. I would like to return to the proposal made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection regarding the acquisition of vessels by the Archipelago Cleanse Association. Keep Archipelago Siittinä ry in the archipelago manages the waste management services of boaters and islanders, and the waste management services rely largely on the activities of this voluntary association. Now this activity is at risk when funding is being cut and they do not have the opportunity to re-enquire when an old vessel is going through the last days. There has been an application for this in progress: There has been a call for money from the oil fund for the purchase of vessels.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u162	Mr President! Mr Sirén raised an important issue which was carefully addressed by the committee — one of the most important things to say — that is to say, keep Archipelago Clean. It has received a significant annual subsidy of almost half a million dollars, and now the service vessels are in the age of renewal, and the price of such a service vessel is about EUR 1.5 million. According to the committee's report, it considers this to be too expensive to finance through this subsidy to the organisation, but we must find another way to finance it. It is also difficult to obtain possible external funding and, according to the report received by the committee, it is not possible to use the oil fund either, but, as Mrs Sirén pointed out, alternative means must then be considered. But these cards have now been viewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u163	Mr President! It is good to applaud the Paris climate agreement, but at the same time we must remember that, if we are to achieve it, we still need a lot of action. It has already been pointed out that 40% of what has been promised so far must be tightened up, and in this respect this concern for biodiversity and the adequacy of nature conservation resources is essential also in Finland. The second issue is water protection. In what way, then, is this decentralised water advice to be given? In addition to the fact that the money for this transfer sewer project is now out of money, so is this counsel. Another such detail is the public administrative tasks of Metsähallitus and the employment appropriations, which amounted to half a million
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u164	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for your good work in Paris. I'd like to raise the issue of living. I think it is terribly good that we have identified and tackled the biggest problem that we have here in Helsinki and in the capital region, namely living at a high price. It is already the biggest cause of urban poverty. It is already an obstacle to employment and, through it, an obstacle to economic growth that affects the whole of Finland when we know how much of our GDP is generated in the capital region. You have proposed a change in the interest rate subsidy loans so that the owner's return on the equity is reduced from 8% to 4%. The proposal as a whole is good and, in my opinion, takes up just the right question: to keep those public-interest housing at really affordable prices. However, this change now seems to all experts to be heading in the opposite direction. In other words, this could reduce the volume of private Ara production and its start-up production. In Helsinki in the last booking round private
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u165	Mr President! Today we have a commended minister on this subject. Bricks from that part of the Paris climate agreement. The responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment is specifically divided between environmental matters and construction. I would like to say that the objectives of the budget, such as energy efficiency and low carbon, the sustainable use of natural resources and a functioning circular economy, are very easy to support. I would like to say here that I would like to express my warm thanks to the Committee on Finance for giving the money requested by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, EUR 3.13 million specifically to support the construction of the sewers. But then, on the construction side, the main objective of housing policy must be to obtain affordable housing production and find ways to do so. Minister, are there any new government proposals coming to us on this particular issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u166	Mr President! The last Natura sites that were debated at the beginning of the 21st century have still not been implemented on paper. The areas are not large, they are difficult last fires of land. Regions can be found, for example, in Uusimaa and on the coast of Ostrobothnia, where the Molpe movement, Molperörelsen, was born, asks what is the real threat to Molpea, when the villagers themselves have managed the areas for 700 years so that they have even been eligible as a UN World Heritage Site. According to the Nature Conservation Act, protection must be sought primarily by voluntary means, but for some reason even the temporary calming of Article 25 of the Nature Conservation Act does not seem to be acceptable to the authorities. I am sure there would be better use for the money earmarked for protection, but I am particularly concerned about the amount of time and unnecessary torque and energy that has gone by, and apparently still goes on, in a case where the actions of the authorities often run counter to the sense of justice of the local population. I would like to ask the Minister of State: would it not now be time to whistle out the game of these excesses, genuinely listen to the local rural inhabitants who have protected the territories for centuries?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u167	Mr President! I like to talk about construction. A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, there was a debate and we heard how the ay store rolled millions of rental housing companies and housing subsidies flow in dividends to the unions. Over the past five years, Ay has received almost EUR 50 million of VVO’s rental dividends. Trade unions offset tax-free dividends on rental income, and the low-income pay the expense in their rents. By pre-contractual agreement signed at the end of November, 8631 rental-based VVO apartments in different parts of Finland were transferred to Y-Asunnot. The purchase price is the transfer fee fixed by Ara, which is estimated at approximately EUR 75 million. Minister, do you have any information as to whether or not there is a leak?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u168	Mr President! I will come back to this climate agreement. I would also like, for my part, to thank the Minister and, in fact, to thank the whole world for the fact that there is still a belief that things can be done together. Maybe the world will get better in this regard someday. I would like to ask the Minister, in particular, how we intend to manage the use of peat in the future socially and fairly. With the Paris climate agreement, I believe that the energy use of peat is hardly possible in the same way. And you tried to open up funding during Question Time, but I would like to ask once again: I hope that it is not the case that climate funding will then be taken out of our very limited development funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u169	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment for the good outcome of the negotiations in Paris. The global warming target of 1.5°C gives hope to all of us and future generations. I would like to ask you more about these negotiations and the follow-up to the negotiations, namely that we should think about the negotiations before 2020. Now that the target has been tightened, it is very important to act in the forefront and start tightening up the targets already, not after 2020. Another issue on which I would like more information is international emissions from shipping and air transport. Were they on the table in the negotiations and discussions, and what improvements could be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u170	Mr President! In the current economic situation, we are faced with the fact that the acquisition of nature reserves and the Metso programme were a target whose budget we had to reduce very much. However, we in the committee did write a text to ensure that these appropriations were then allocated to the main areas of protection. Now, however, on the basis of various laws, such as the Forest Act and many other laws, we have millions of hectares in Finland, which are practically voluntary protected areas without any compensation. Is there any purpose whatsoever to identify the number of protected areas of landowners' own and the various statutory sites for which there is no need to allocate any funds to protect and maintain them? This should take into account, somewhere, how many protected areas we already have. Second of all, these parks. We have lots of parks, but it's not free to maintain them. Now we are setting up a new park, a new national park. I wonder if it would make sense for it to be Hossa, for example, whose
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u171	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the President of the Chamber for the presentation. Indeed, we have an excellent government programme with a circular economy as one pearl. Of course, we could recycle more here in Parliament: when I eat chills, I can't put that jar cover in metal recycling, and in my house I do. Concerns have been expressed here about the reduction of forest funds and the reduction of resources for nature conservation areas and the use of forests for the movement of wood. I entirely agree with Mrs Maijala that we have a new forest law just last season, which raised new sites to protect them. We are not breaking any laws on nature conservation, climate law, environmental law. In my opinion, we too have a slightly questionable Natura project in progress, so in that respect we do have this protected area. But, Minister, you have heard of the incomparable Hossa National Park project, have you?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u172	Mr President! I too share the thanks that have been given to the Minister for the Paris climate agreement. It can only be said that the fact that the Finnish Minister was given more responsibility there when he negotiated on behalf of the European Union indicates that our relations with the country are in order, has created the relationship of trust that is needed. In actual fact, I asked for this response to draw attention to the fact that today we have a very large need to mobilise new investments. Unfortunately, the authorisation systems are only going to last, and then we have a complaint system which too often complains about projects which, when implemented, do not threaten nature. I know one thing about Humppila that had something to do with raising growing peat. It has been raised for decades, and now, when there was a small expansion, it was complained about, and the entrepreneur waits for the third year to get that extra area. This is also disproportionate in this way to make it more difficult for entrepreneurs and investors, and I hope that attention will be paid to this. I know, therefore, that there are projects up to digitalisation that could speed up these authorisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u173	Madam President! In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we had other good alternatives, but perhaps this was justifiable when we got started. As the Minister said, this form will not be taken forward. I would like to emphasise that the projects in the pipeline are also the Baltic Sea project, and the Baltic Sea issue is common to all of us, and it is also strongly enshrined in the Government Programme. Nature-friendly and nature conservation and so on: There's been some talk of value. Almost 8% of the EUR 40 million increase in the Committee on Finance relates to nature when it is calculated that this transfer sewer project is nature conservation and the protection of water bodies. Then there is this excellent national park issue, which is in the government programme. I ask the Minister: how well have you considered or intend to take into account the importance of local support when comparing the Porkkala of Kirkkonummi and Hossa of Suomussalmi? I understand that Hossa is supported by entrepreneurs, the municipality of Kuusamo, the municipality of Suomussalmi, the Regional Council. They're ready for the fasiliities, so they're ready for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u174	Mr President! Mr Mölsä raised an important issue. In Finland, the main way to support the production of rental dwellings is to support interest rates. When we have 40 years of interest subsidies and we have had interest subsidies of different lengths, we are now planning a ten-year interest subsidy, and once this interest subsidy has ceased, these homes will no longer have regulated rent. That is what these VVO apartments are all about. Two thirds of VVO's dwellings are currently unregulated and therefore do not have a roof to rent. Instead, it is extremely important that we ensure that these public-interest developers receive the support we can give in such an economic situation. For this reason, it is good that the Y-Authority is now the owner of these dwellings, because it is a company of general interest, and such
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u175	Madam President! It is indeed worth thanking for the Paris climate agreement, but then we must remember that one of the concerns is the loss of biodiversity, which is happening at a rapid pace here too. Now that nature conservation money is being cut very heavily and the same money is being used to make more effective progress in promoting nature conservation, it is very important to pay attention to where this money is being put. That is why nature reserves should be selected on the basis of qualitative criteria for nature, and I hope that this has been taken into account. I would like to ask: how to ensure that the areas which are most critical because of diversity are actually protected, and not those which are perhaps most readily offered for protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u176	Mr President! I would like to return to the subject that has already been raised here. Keep Archipelago Clean is not only in need of vessel investment, but also does a very important job and, in fact, as the only operator, manages, for example, the collection and recycling of toilet waste from boaters. For example, this organization is threatened by the cuts in the organisation’s allowances now being made. On this point, I would like to ask whether there has already been a line on how this cut in the allowance for organisations will be carried out. I think it would be sensible not to cut with a cheese grinder, but to look at the necessity. And here too, in view of this key project to improve the status of water bodies, this is very much in line with it and is a very important actor for the state of the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u177	Madam President! Indeed, I agree with these thanks given to the Minister for the Environment. Good management of the climate negotiations in Paris and good results. That's a big and warm thank you. One of the government's key projects is this bioeconomy, and it is clear, as has already been pointed out in this debate, that the use of forests will increase dramatically. Now, however, in the bioeconomy tip project, we have the objective of increasing wood construction and in many other ways replacing certain other materials with bio-based materials. As far as these emissions are concerned, I ask the Minister how it would be better to point out now that, when we replace concrete construction with wood, for example, which produces a very high amount of carbon dioxide emissions, emissions are actually reduced when we switch to these better bio-based materials such as wood. This is one example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u178	Mr President! Minister, I have received concerns from the actors in the Invalidity Associations who have expressed concern that when regulation is being dismantled, does it mean lessening accessibility regulations in construction? I wish you could tell me about this. And the second thing: There have been many speakers who have praised the Paris climate agreement, but another major international issue of this kind relates to this TTIP agreement. How do you see under your own ministry the threats of this TTIP agreement, for example, in relation to chemicals in which we have had a very cautious relationship?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u179	Madam President! It is important to preserve biodiversity when we increase the use of wood, but some of the loss of biodiversity is only a matter of fear. That is why I think it would make sense in this proposal by Mrs Majala to put together all the nature conservation that everyone in her own forests is doing — but may not be in Natura or is not in nature conservation — so that we can also report it to other countries. In the context of forest resource information, it would also be possible to do this in a certain way, just as it would be possible to compile decay data, for example. I believe that there are fears in this Chamber too that decay trees will be reduced, even though, in fact, the number of decayed trees will continue to rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u180	Mr President! The hot political issue of the past years was the Wastewater Regulation. You, Minister for the Environment, reassured this debate at the outset when you said that no one would have to invest just for the sake of waste water, but only when a construction project requiring a building permit was carried out. However, it appears that groundwater and coastal areas would constitute an exception. I was wondering what ideas are there for a more precise definition of these groundwater and coastal areas. Would the municipality have a responsibility, or would it be directed in some way at a national level?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u181	Let us take three more answers to this. The Minister will then take the floor, and then a few more minutes of the debate will continue. These three persons are representative Heinonen, representative Savola and representative Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u182	Mr President! Of course, I share the thanks for the Paris climate agreement as President of the Section and I would like to thank the Minister for the good work he has done on it. The money was definitely the hardest part of our section work. As far as what we stressed was concerned, we saw that it was also a nature conservation act to complete the unfinished transfer sewers of Lohtaja, Sastamala and Ylivieska, and we decided to show this money there and get these near waters and the Baltic Sea cleaned up. We thought that this diminishing forest protection money would be allocated precisely, as has been hoped, to those most sensitive areas, which is where a good whole was found. But this shows that today we are saving everything. There has been a debate here today on how to save children, families, pensioners, but we also save on these. With less money,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u183	Madam President! With the Paris climate agreement, there will certainly be new opportunities for Finland now, because we need to be able to make better use of renewable energy, renewable bio-based forms of construction and others. We also have excellent forest expertise in Finland. How can we also take it so that we can promote sustainable forestry in other parts of the world and, of course, in Europe? You, Minister Tiilikainen, immediately in the news after the outcome of the Paris climate agreement negotiations, made it very clear that it is worth investing in Finland and now Finland has the opportunity to export clean technology to the world, we have the expertise to do so. What sectors and sectors of industry do you think we should focus our business on now, so that we can also achieve the desired growth in our economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u184	Madam President! I'm not one of those cowboys in the booth, and I'm not one of those Natura men. Let me explain this again: we have a misconception that forests could be a carbon storage facility. They are very common in such things that old forests... We have invested in forest management in Finland for over a hundred years, and it now gives us, for example, one-and-a-half to double the yield of wood compared to the 70s, while at the same time the carbon sink of forests and the accumulation of coal in the soil is now twice that of the previous tree stock. So this kind of conservation of old forests does not really serve as a carbon sink, but these new, very growing forests act as a carbon sink. Is there information at the Ministry and also there at the EU's end on how to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u185	And then, Minister, please, five minutes at the most. After that, the debate will continue, so all the speeches will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u186	Madam President! I'm sure there'll be a lot of things to take in when you're on the move. Let's start with living here, which I just missed in that opening speech: Many representatives wanted to talk about it, and now I have to say that next year, these start-up grants will keep these 10% housing projects in the housing of special groups, such as student housing, youth housing, and so on, so that the money available will hopefully get as much housing construction as possible started, as many construction projects as possible. Correction grants are also being continued, and there is this question of accessibility — whether Tavitsainen raised this — which is an important issue. However, while efforts are being made to reduce these building rules in such a way as to reduce construction costs, we should remember that the need for accessible housing will only increase in the coming years. In fact, a good compromise can be found here. Not by giving up that accessibility, but better planning will enable it to be accessible, for example in bathrooms, to accommodate 1.5 to 2 square metres in smaller spaces. It is great that from this I have been able to engage in dialogue with industry organisations and have found this kind of solution, which at the same time reduces construction costs but where the accessibility objective does not need to be compromised. And to pass on this information is a very important thing. Then as far as this rental housing price is concerned: Yes, that is a serious and permanent suggestion that in those rental dwellings the remuneration of its owner's own capital has been calculated from 8% to 4 and that is, in fact, the existing housing stock, which reduces the upward pressure on the rent. Mr Modig then raised the question of whether it would now be possible to curb the production of new construction. Well, actually now we have to look at these conditions for affordable housing, and in that sense this new short-term interest rate subsidy model presented by the liquidator Rossilahti is to be carried forward at a rapid pace, because it again contains elements such as those likely to be able to accelerate this production. There is also a great deal to be said for the MAL agreements to produce a good result here in the Helsinki region, for example, and cities themselves are also active in promoting land-use planning. This job isn't just pushing a government string to get us anywhere. Then there are a few other things: Many have referred to the importance of forests, and thank you for those thanks for the climate negotiations. Of course, it was a pleasure to be there as a Finnish and to take a little more responsibility. In fact, work was done within the EU and with Russia to ensure that the entry in that climate agreement does not take a stand on these accounting rules and models, but that the general recognition of the fact that, when moving towards that carbon-neutral society, it is also accepted that sinks play a major role and that forests are one of the key sinks. By the way, the practical way in which this is going with these accounting rules will begin within the EU soon, and that is where we should be awake. As Mr Hakkarainen asked whether this is recognised, so the Finns will recognize it, and then it is our job to try to gain that understanding more widely in the EU. There are indeed two things about forests: the carbon stock, which is in the stock of trees that we have — as Mr Hakkarainen has well said — even doubled, but at the same time we also have the sink, that is, the annual growth, doubled. This cannot go on indefinitely unless, at the same time, the removal is similar to the fact that the structure of forests remains conducive to growth. That's when it comes to what you do with that wood that's been beaten up. According to the International Climate Panel's accounting rules, wood is a carbon-neutral energy source. But the more wood can be tied to structures, at the same time it once grew and the tree that served as a sink can also be a warehouse in these buildings. That's why it's so important to promote it. For diversity: I am pleased that many have brought it up. It must now be noted that, even if the budget falls, no protected areas will be dismantled, but all existing protected areas will remain, and I believe that many representatives will recognise that if a region has been protected for ten years, then its conservation value has gradually improved. Now we really have something important,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u187	Madam President! This is where the answers came in very well in terms of housing, and Mr Modig raised the issue of the cost of housing here in the capital region earlier. The streamlining of planning is a very important issue and so are many other deregulations in housing production. I would have asked about this dismantling of standards in this area, in what way next year the ministry will proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u188	Madam President! The importance of voluntary nature conservation cannot be overemphasized. I myself have chaired the Vesijärvi Foundation in Lahti, Hollola and Asikkala. We are used to having a clean and abundant nature in Finland, but we also have a lot of problems. Eutrophication and poor oxygen conditions suffer from both our own Lake Water and our Baltic Sea. The problem is also that, at the same time, environmental protection is being over-voluntarily changed. As the Minister said earlier, the purchase money for nature conservation areas will be cut by 60%. The much-recognized Forest Protection Programme of Southern Finland Metso project is also at risk. In addition, more than EUR 250000 was cut from the budget of environmental protection organisations. How do you, Minister, see the importance of water protection? This work must not be left too much to volunteers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u189	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen, you said that the existing protected areas will remain, but the fact is that biodiversity is deteriorating rapidly, we are talking about up to the sixth wave of extinction, so it is truly regrettable that more than half of the acquisition of nature reserves will be cut out, and in particular from this voluntary protection programme, Metso, which is widely accepted. National parks are also truly loved, and it is a good decision to set up a national park to celebrate Finland’s 100th anniversary. Greens are in favour of creating two national parks, both in Hossa and Porkkala. Many things speak for carrots, including the traditions of history. Porkkala had a national park in 38 years ago, but it had to be dismantled in the midst of wars. Porkkala has great waters, nature areas, archipelago, rivers, birds,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u190	Mr President! So much for this too Keep Archipelago Siittinä ry, that I have actually learned myself that it is not an association among others, but, in fact, an essential link to waste management in the whole of the Gulf of Finland, in which case I would really encourage the government to find a way in particular, even though there is little money, for the legislation of the Oil Protection Fund. It must not fall short of the fact that it is legally impossible to finance it through it if there are no grounds for it. I understand that the fund itself has been interested in moving forward with this. Much has been said about the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Fortunately, in Finland, the goals of the Government Programme are already ambitious, so that we are largely on the same level as the 1.5-degree warming path in the 2030 targets, but they just have to be implemented. Here perhaps the biggest question mark is whether the investments of around EUR 2.5 to EUR 3 billion will be created, especially in biorefineries, in order to replace half of the oil in transport. Here the big companies say that Finland’s throat alone is not enough; a Nordic-wide market view is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u191	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, a new national park will be established in Finland during the 100th anniversary of the country. Hossa has been presented with a diverse natural range of 11,000 hectares, which is entirely on state land. Hossa has had nature tourism for a hundred years, and the region is closely linked to the history of Finland as one of the birthplaces of Kalevala, the seat of the Declaration of Independence and is also known for the key battles of the Winter War. Hossa is also closely involved in nature conservation cooperation across the eastern border with the Kalevala National Park. There is already a pre-built framework for the National Park in the Hossa region, and there is unanimous support for the establishment of the National Park in the region. So I ask the minister when we can look forward to happy news about the new national park.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u192	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Mölsä pointed out, in a very negative way, the link between the VVO and the trade union movement, to which Mr Myller replied with credit, what is really at stake. But now that there is a minister here who answers, I would like to ask in a way how you have listened to this debate, bearing in mind that the Youth Foundation is also one of the large housing and building units. Currently, 3100 apartments are thought to be owned by the Youth Foundation. If I remember correctly, this link also involves the fact that this is a question of electoral funding and the convictions that have been handed down. How can these two different things be compared? I hope that Mölsäk understands why the Central Party has not been very keen on this criticism of the Ay movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u193	Madam President! Now, let's go to this national park thing, even though I'm not a big fan of parks. But if you want to set it up or you have to set it up in the jubilee year, then I sincerely agree with Hossa National Park. As representatives Mattila and Jarva have already said, everything is ready in Kainuu. So in that respect I am in favour of Hossa and of course I ask: is there a cost comparison already in place as to which is cheaper to base, Porkkala or Hossa, and what will these costs ultimately be?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u196	Mr President! In fact, it was only this year that I too became a zealous supporter of the new national park.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u197	Mr President! Yes, happy news is expected here too, but perhaps it will bring different happy news that it is expected that the national park will be set up in Porkkala. But maybe this is not where we start this debate about which national park would be better. In my opinion, of course, Porkkala, I would have asked the Minister more about this construction that, as we all know, it is a challenge that we do not have enough of the affordable housing. Especially now that the need for asylum seekers who will then be eligible for a residence permit in the future should find a municipality, it will radically increase the need for affordable housing. After all, the Committee on Finance specifically addressed this in its report and demanded that the government now go through all the means and bring some solution that would enable this matter to be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u198	Madam President! All too often, the various complaints delay construction projects and other projects and cause them to incur excessive additional costs and, in particular, delay them. For this reason, certain, specifically binding processing times should also be set for the treatment of public authorities in the planning process. In general, the dismantling of standards and red tape should continue and be effectively initiated in the construction process. For example, I would like to draw attention to the building obligations of population protection. Minister, could they be reduced in some way? The second point is that accessibility requirements have already been raised here. In my opinion, it is very unreasonable that, for example, if you build 20 square metres of flats, you need 6 to 7 square feet of toilet space. These should be:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u199	Mr President! I would also like to return to this issue of the Baltic Sea, which has been ignored here. The promotion of the good ecological status of the Baltic Sea is one of our top projects, and the aim is to step up efforts to protect the Baltic Sea. With regard to this budget, I have been trying to sort out a little of this whole package of Baltic Sea funding during the autumn, and it seems to be a little challenging when these funds are under two different ministries and there under various articles and some of them are at the top of the projects. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is such a compilation around this Baltic Sea work from the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u200	Madam President! The climate agreement reached in Paris is an opportunity for Finland, as we know, which cannot be lost at the moment. The demand for cleantech solutions will increase dramatically in the future, and we can provide solutions for intelligent transport systems, waste and water management and energy efficiency, for example. A huge export market is opening up for cleantech companies, which means that there will be tens of thousands of new jobs if these opportunities can be exploited. Finland has the infrastructure solutions that are needed in the world, and we should hit this emerging market as quickly as possible. So I ask the Minister: at what point are our green technology export plans that other competing countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Norway do not run past us, or have they already passed us?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u201	Madam President! Human rights in the UN require self-determination, freedom of choice and equality. Against this background, the Government already decided in 2010 to dismantle institutional housing for people with mental disabilities. I am therefore pleased that the budget still has a budget of EUR 120 million for housing production by special groups, and especially since this committee's report stresses that priority is given to those in the most difficult housing situation, i.e. the long-term homeless, the mentally disabled and the mentally ill. We know that there are specific requirements for structural solutions in their housing production, but not only the cost of construction is a challenge, but there have been quite a few problems with planning. The Nimby phenomenon is today, for example, people with mental disabilities are not wanted in that neighbor. I would encourage the Minister to continue to follow up on this concession.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u202	Mr President! I will also return to that national park issue and to that of Hossa, because I think Hossa is particularly well suited for being a national park of independence because of its magnificent nature and also because of the historical interests associated with independence. And when I have spent some fifty years camping in that Hossa camping area, when the delegates have already had a very good knowledge of Hossa and the questions asked to the Minister, I will ask the Minister whether there is still some relevant information missing from the minister to be able to name this Hossa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u203	Madam President! There have also been very important issues here today: housing and, above all, affordable housing. We have a lot of work to do here, but, of course, especially from the point of view of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, I can tell you that the roof over your head is valuable to everyone, but it is a roof that you can afford. But we need the right means to do so, and I will come back to what Mr Modig has already said here, namely interest subsidies for mortgages. We received a great deal of criticism from the committee, Minister. In fact, the experts who came to us to tell us that these effects would be very marginal, that there might be a change in rents of about 20 cents, and, on the other hand, the very radical decline in housing construction was seen as a much larger problem. This criticism came particularly from those whose main objective is not to make a profit on home production, and it was hoped, above all, that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u204	Mr President! The Minister also pointed out: The great opportunities for environmental business opened up by the Paris Agreement, like many others. However, it is important for this purpose that Finnish protection of nature and the environment is credible in the world, and these very drastic cuts to the resources for nature conservation unfortunately undermine its credibility. We must also bear in mind the impact of climate change on forests, such as the spread of new pests here. Congressman Hakkarainen doesn't like bugs, but there may be particularly awkward bugs. Against such threats and disturbances, ecosystems such as forests are the more resistant they are. I would also like to say that what Mr Tiilikainen has just said about forest sinks and the increase in fellings is somewhat inconsistent with what was said yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment in the climate panel.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u205	Madam President! In my first speech, I asked the Minister that he was familiar with Hossa's project, and now I can at least be convinced that this patriotic, very patriotic project is familiar to the Minister, and yes, for my part, it can be decided this evening that the National Park will be built in Hossa. But there are still these carbon sinks and specifically the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. I would now like to ask the Minister: what is going on in your sector at the moment, specifically with regard to transport emissions? After all, we know that, once they have been outside the emissions trading sector, significant results can be achieved from there, such as biofuels produced by agriculture, or what other equivalent low-emissions we can introduce in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u206	Madam President! During Parliamentary Question Time, I tried to get the floor that I could have resisted the construction of the Vuotos basin, which has once again risen tactically, skilfully, precisely at this time of Christmas, in order not to be able to organise that resistance properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u209	Mr President! The climate agreement has come up very well here, and indeed thanks across party boundaries have come up on the subject in this case. But now we have to be very careful that Finland does not become an unreasonable paying man. Nor must we shift our climate problems to developing and developing countries. Forest issues have been well raised here, but agriculture has now been poorly represented. We must be very sure that our agriculture will not suffer from this. Our fields are very easily classified as carbon emitters, but our fields are very much on the grass and are very much binding on carbon in active farming. At the same time, we have a huge number of peatlands and marshes which, in natural conditions, release a large amount of methane into the air and are indeed carbon discharges, but when they are in the field, they can even be more carbon-binding than natural.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u210	Madam President! It is also necessary to thank the Minister for being active and for having been able to bring in the views of Parliament as well, which the great committee has tried to instruct, and in that sense it is time to thank. Now that we have come to this point where these great opportunities lie, I will ask the Minister what is the decisive step of the Finnish Government in the direction that we are really sharing that cleantech opportunity. How many discussions have already been held about how the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs together are going to make it possible to create reference plants that we can export as selfishly produced in Finland? We cannot simply sell plans to China or other developing industrialised countries. We need those references. What is the Finnish medicine so that we can
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u211	Madam President! The representatives Karimäki and Salolainen raised this national park issue in a very constructive way, and both are indeed, Porkkala and Hossa, valuable targets. It's all right for me to have both of them set up in the centenary year. I will ask the Minister whether there is any economic potential for this, because this will at least give rise to consensus. If that's not possible, then maybe we'll have to take some kind of time to do it. I ask the Minister about this geographical emphasis, two aspects: Teijo and the Archipelago Sea have been established here quite recently, and another geographical aspect is that one of the leading projects in 2017 is the Central Library of Helsinki. Now, if Porkkala is next to another leading project, is it geographically slightly unbalanced, or should it look at the whole of Finland and then take Hossa as a possible first option?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u212	Mr President! The rules are already true. In Siikajärvi, Espoo, there were container residences for asylum seekers before any building permits had even been applied for. I checked this with Rehn-Kive, Head of Espoo Building Control. Minister, container dwellings would also be a good solution for other low-income people, students, homeless people who desperately need affordable housing, as well as for these asylum seekers, of course. I would therefore like to see a solution as quickly as possible to this problem of housing shortages affecting the capital region, as has been the case with these asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u213	Mr President! Here, of course, we have all struggled with the fact that we are living in times of scarcity. There is very little money available for the creation of new areas for nature conservation. Of course, as the Minister has shown here, this does not mean that the current protected areas will not continue and that, indeed, diversity within them could actually increase. But I would actually have asked the minister. When we have come up with an initiative to set up a foundation with some well-known companies, such as Lohja Rudus and Lassila & Among other things, ladders, which are the idea of having such a fund, from which companies can compensate for the use of natural space in their own activities, as if it were a voluntary purchase for protection purposes, just as in the form of the Metso principle, of areas which could then be protected, so how could we possibly speed up this type of approach, in which, without undue efforts by taxpayers, it would be possible to move forward with precisely valuable resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u214	Mr President! Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our era. It is a great thing that a climate agreement has been found in Paris and a climate agreement has been reached. However, this is not our only challenge in this time period; at least the same problem is the loss of biodiversity. I would therefore like to ask the Minister at this point, given that there is now a huge reduction in nature conservation money, what is going on with the programme for the protection of bogs? In what way in this time period do we protect Finnish bog nature, which is extremely valuable from the point of view of biodiversity? In what way do you, as a minister, intend to promote a programme for the protection of bogs, which, in the case of the previous Minister for the Environment, was very saddened during the last period?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u215	At this stage, I will give three more answers. Then there would be the Minister's answer, and then we will go to the list of speakers for a moment and then we will move on to item 5 at 8 p.m. These three persons are representatives of Meri, Mikkonen and Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u216	Madam President! I would have discussed these environmental permits and complaints. I have been contacted by some entrepreneurs, one from the road tracks, the kartingrads from that lake Hausjärvi and the other from our range of shootings from Hyvinkää. There has been a great deal of concern about the complexity of these environmental permits and the enormous cost to applicants. In other words, in these processes, the applicant must provide such explanations to the authority if he does not fully accept the Authority's measurement results in this process. I wish we could really go through these things right now. We also have complaints routes in various processes on land permits and environmental permits for different administrative rights, and there may then be problems with their contradictions — this is a real problem — and then also with the fact that there is a very wide-ranging role for the party concerned, even if you have moved there, perhaps later in the knowledge of this situation. I would ask that this be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u217	Madam President! It has been wonderful to hear the broad support for the establishment of a national park this evening in this Chamber. What could be a better gift for 100-year-old Finland than to protect a piece of Finnish nature? After all, the National Parks are primarily intended for camping, and they are very popular hiking sites. The national park brand is a very good guarantee of quality. That is why I think it would be honourable if we set up two national parks, both in Hossa and Porkkala. Both regions meet the criteria, are largely already owned by the State and are largely also either camping or other protected areas. It is known that every euro invested in the services of the national park comes back ten times as much as the local economy, so even if a little more money goes into it at this point, it will come back to the area and, by the way, the nature reserve has been significantly reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u218	Mr President! Indeed, this climate agreement was a wonderful thing, for which I thank you again. And now that the climate and energy strategy is being developed here nationally for 2030, I would like to ask how to take into account in this strategy this kind of longer-term scenario now, as the goal is for 2050 with this climate agreement to bring emissions to zero. I, too, would like to comment on this national park issue to the extent that I am in favour of this proposal by Mr Salolainen that both be set up. I understand that this is also possible according to the budget for the key project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u219	Then Minister Tiilikainen, please, for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I am trying to pick up some of the things that more representatives have intervened in, and I will start with this valuable work done by the Baltic Sea Protection, the Protection of Waters, and this is what you like about the valuable work done by Archipelago Cleaning. Indeed, the organization has four vessels that operate on different sides, and none of them are quite fresh, which is certainly where the need for a ship is. Now, the possibility of financing non-governmental vessels from the Oil Protection Fund can of course be clarified, but that opening up of the head to contracts such as this is not a simple matter either. But the work that that organization does for our environment is truly valuable. Then, with regard to this biodiversity of forests, I entirely agree with Mr Karimäki that I too regret the fact that there are fewer Metso funds. Of course, I would be happy to use them more extensively to get new forest conservation sites to protect them, because there is that supply, which means forest owners are very happy to offer these sites. But now that there is little money, they are living on it, and that is when these criteria go up, which is what has been called for in several speeches, that scarce money must then be able to pick up the most important things in terms of nature. This is the point of reference here for the protection of bogs, which is one of the questions that Mrs Marin asked about. Now, for Metsähallitus, this programme for the protection of bogs is being carried out, 36,000 hectares of these sites have been mapped out and brought into protection. Then, in the case of forested bogs, where there may be a threat that its natural value will disappear, this Metso will also be sought when the criteria allow, i.e. the most valuable sites on that side if they are threatened. Fortunately, we have a great deal of swamp nature, which has gradually emerged since the ice age and which is not threatened at the moment, that is, they are not disappearing, many of the natural values, even if they are not covered by official protection, fortunately. But here in diversity we need just these new approaches, such business-diversity cooperation. In fact, in January I am organizing this kind of round table around the forest nature, where industry operators, companies and organisations are now invited to think that when we are in this scarce financial situation, then how can we be even better able to work? Then this concept, to which Mr Mykkänen referred, was that some front-row companies make such biodiversity compensation elsewhere, if their activities weaken diversity elsewhere, is an interesting concept. After all, this autumn we had a big seminar here, for the first time in Europe was actually organised, Helsinki was a place, and this is an area that I am happy to promote. Then thank you for the good lighting for the various national parks candidates. At this point, the government, as always a good government, is doing careful preparatory work, and by the end of this year the preparation of that official, where this comparison between these options is carried out by the Ministry of the Environment, should be completed on schedule. Of these transport emissions and the contribution of air and maritime transport to the climate agreement: After all, Finland strongly promotes this increase in the share of advanced biofuels in transport fuels, 40 per cent of which will be achieved by 2030. Karimäki, as I recall, asked about this climate agreement. There is no specific reference to air and maritime traffic, and, together with some countries, a statement was recently taken here, including Sweden and Finland, that now that the countries of the world have agreed on this climate balance overall, the same countries should now take a step forward in international maritime organisations and air transport organisations in order to bring these global sectors into the scope of the agreement also through the decisions of their organisations. Myllykoski, Lehto and many others asked about this cleantech: which food and industries. There are a lot of industries, and yes, companies now also have a big responsibility, that is, everyone who has thought and imagined that they now have something to offer, so nothing but boldly forward, and the government, for example, with these research and development efforts and key project funds, will support this development. Increasing housing construction in relation, for example, to the fact that we also have a large number of immigrants, What was asked is really coming before us. In fact, today we met and discussed with a Swedish colleague, the Minister for Housing, and this was probably the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u221	To the list of speakers, Mr Karimäki. — Let us take a few speeches here and then start with paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u222	Madam President! The share of natural bogs in the swamps of our country is negligible, since most of our bogs are ditched. There are very few watercourses flowing freely and naturally, and many environmental organizations have taken to heart the restoration of current waters. The share of natural and diverse forests in all Finnish forests is alarmingly small, as the majority of our forests are economic forests. The level of protection has been improved by acquiring new protected areas with the Metso programme for forest biodiversity in Southern Finland, among others. It is irresponsible for the government to cut more than half of this budget for the voluntary protection programme. It jeopardises the establishment of large integrated protected areas and accelerates the sixth wave of extinction. The protection of Finnish habitats must be substantially improved, as half of the different habitats in Finland have been classified as endangered. Many species of life are at risk of extinction. It is essential to prepare and implement conservation programmes under the Nature Conservation Act for endangered species. When a species is protected, its habitat is also protected. The loss of biodiversity means that much more needs to be invested in nature conservation than before. Mr President! A good thing is the decision to set up a new national park to celebrate Finland’s 100th anniversary. We're running for Hossa in the north and Porkkala in the south. Both are magnificent areas, and the Greens are in favour of creating two parks. There are many points in favour of Carrotola as a national park. Porkkala is a western, sealike pearl of the green circle of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. It is a popular camping area where you can walk on cliffs, swim in swimming places and by boat in the archipelago. The new national park would strengthen the green circle of the capital region threatened by building pressures. Marine nature, bird caves, cliffs, coastal meadows and underwater ridges must be spared for posterity. The establishment of Porkkala National Park will ensure the best possible nature values in the region and will allow for better recreational use. Since there are now small, yet magnificent, separate recreation areas in the area, it is still broken and needs comprehensive development, including wider outdoor routes. The National Park would benefit not only nature but also residents of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, tourists and entrepreneurs. The National Park was founded in Porkkala in Kirkkonummi as early as 1938. The park was located on Stora Träskö Island but was closed 20 years later in connection with the return of the rental area of Porkkala. Porkkala National Park would be a unique set of swastikas, indoor bays and seal loans. The circle of history would close when the national park, which was closed after the wars, was restored to its value. Nature organisations have suggested that the national park would be established in the early stages on state land in the districts of Kirkkonummi, Siuntio and Inkoo. According to the proposal, there would be 1,600 hectares of land and 8000 hectares of water in the national park. The Federation of Uusimaa and the municipalities of the region support the establishment of a national park in Porkkala. The regional plan of Uusimaa contains all the necessary reservations for the implementation of the decision. A carrot would be a bull's-eye for the themes of the centenary — the present, the past, the future. Mr President! We had a good debate just now, and there were, among other things, accessibility regulations, which have been greatly feared to weaken. The need for accessible housing is growing, as the Minister has said here, and better planning is needed to build accessible housing, and when accessibility is taken into account at an early stage, it will not even be very expensive. It was great to have a minister. Mr Tiilikainen said here that there was no need to compromise the accessibility objectives. It is an easier message for many disability organisations, but it is very important now and will need to be better ensured that the construction of new ones is truly accessible and complies with the existing accessibility provisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u223	Madam President! I thought I'd say a few words about wood construction. It can also be found in the Government Programme, and next year there will also be measures to do so. Wood construction is healthy, it is beautiful, and wood construction is also the best way to store carbon. If 40% of all waste in the world is generated from construction, it also has a place in it that these buildings are made of durable and recyclable materials. Wood construction is very trendy in the world, and in Central Europe, Scotland, is even just like this boom going. Finnish long-grown wood is a very good building material. The legislation is getting better. We also have wooden blocks all over, but we still have some problems in our own legislation as well as in other areas. The first and perhaps most important thing at the moment is that in Finland wood burns faster than in Sweden. I would very much like this matter to be clarified, whether it is really this way, that Finnish wood is more sensitive to burn. I don't think so. Secondly, unfortunately, the expertise of construction inspectors in wood construction has been slightly reduced, as wood construction in Finland has hardly been carried out, especially in large sites, for a few ten years. So this level of competence should be raised. And thirdly, the wood construction know-how and training of these construction masters should be reinvigorated and developed,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u224	Mr President! That was very important talk about wood construction, and that is where we need to make progress. But remember, too, that in the future nanocells can be used to build products that replace both concrete and steel. This is the area of knowledge for the future that will also bind coal during its own history, and these will be the answers we need to be able to undercut that 1.5 degree, hopefully. But then I, too, became very sensitive about this national park discussion here. Everyone was well aware of the advantages of the national park in their area, and it is certainly easy to join them. I am even more convinced that we need two national parks at this stage, because they are also very different from their nature types. It is an excellent thing that national parks have support from the residents of the area. I myself, as the only representative of Parliament in the 1990s, have been in favour of the establishment of Koli National Park. It is not such an easy situation if, both politically and regionally, citizens are against such a fine thing as Koli National Park, but it is and is well there at the moment. I want to say something about housing policy. It has rightly been here and the committee in its report states that what we have the greatest shortage of money is affordable, and I would add: rental housing in permanent rental housing. That is why I would now like to see the government really think about using the opportunities in the Housing Fund. It's almost debt-free at the moment. It is considered that there are some 700 million funds that could be used in a sensible way for housing production. This should be done now, for a number of reasons. This would be cyclically sound, this would make sense in terms of housing policy, as these dwellings are needed. Of course, for this we need cooperation between the state and the municipalities so that planning can work. We also have the opportunity to quickly create infill in areas that have already been planned, and we also need to consider how new housing can be obtained by raising the floors, and here this timber construction could be a very important part of the process of making these additional layers. But now straight to this budget for next year. The government should now change this budget in such a way as to restore that interest rate to 1%, which would lead to construction. These MAL agreements and related subsidies will be increased so that they can also be implemented outside the capital region, so that the State actually commits itself to these infrastructure projects, which will then also enable the construction of new residential areas. So there are a lot of things that can really be done. Now we have to think about the logic of this housing policy. At the moment, this coherence is lacking when we consider the legislation that has just passed Parliament and in which the government will change this interest rate on the own contribution by means of a regulation. It will be smaller than this ten-year interest subsidy that is now being planned, and the name of this ten-year interest subsidy says that it will only remain affordable for 10 years. This normal production of Ara, which we should now build with truly public interest communities, is practically forever in the use of rental housing, and this is the kind of rental housing we need to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u225	At this stage, the reply to the section president, Mr Heinose.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u226	Mr President! I agree with Mr Myller that it is worth considering this issue of self-financing once again, and I also agree that we must have more housing construction in this country. The best guarantee that housing is affordable is adequate housing production. As a result, authorisation processes are being relaxed and streamlined and housing criteria are also being improved, and the new 10-year interim model will also contribute to increasing housing production.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u229	Congressman Honkonen, gone. Congressman Grass. — — — — Representative Ruoho will probably be the last speaker at this stage, because I predict that Minister Tiilikainen will be in the Chamber soon, and then we will start immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u230	Mr President! First of all, these guidelines on housing policy, and in particular on affordable rental housing production: As a representative of Uusimaa, I am well aware of the shortage of housing in the capital region for low incomes and of the fact that this housing shortage is a threat to our international competitiveness as well. The government has promised to dismantle standards, which would also facilitate construction. I mentioned here earlier about these container-houses that rose to Siikajärvi in Espoo for asylum seekers before any of those permits had even been applied for, and I would like to justify it a little more. Indeed, these container dwellings would be a quick and good solution for others who desperately need affordable housing. They have basic needs, they are neat and warm, and they have very modern versions. In Germany, for example, there are also container dwellings for students. Mr President! Next, on this issue of environmental health and environmental protection. I also mentioned earlier that we actually have one of the largest landfills in Europe, this landfill area of the Ämmassuo, about 500 hectares, and next to it is also a massive rock and stone mining and crushing site of the Kulmakor, and there are more housing areas near the landfill and around both Espoo and Kirkkonummi. There more than thirty different emission-producing activities are carried out in the region. Biowaste will be imported, it will be the final disposal of the fires, contaminated land will be imported, and there will be mining and crushing of stones. The landfill causes noise, dust, vibration and odour damage, as I mentioned earlier. Indeed, the number 207A has been found at this kind of water sampling point, including cyanide and carcinogenic bad compounds. And as a source I have this kind of Ahma Oy's water report from 2014. The inhabitants of that massive landfill have always complained of the highest administrative law and the EU. However, these residential areas are not equipped with municipal technology to provide clean drinking water. They even found hummingbirds in the wells of the black brooks. The residents there will pick up their drinking water a few miles from the crate next to St1's gas station. The danger of heavy and heavy traffic in the landfill has also not been addressed despite promises of more than 30 years. Espoo Health Services organised a health survey for the residents of the affected area of the landfill this autumn on the basis of my council initiative. According to the results, there were clear health disadvantages in accordance with Article 1 of the Health Protection Act. More than half of the respondents felt that the landfill affected their own health, the health of the loved ones and drinking water and air and soil quality. Respondents’ lifestyles were healthy and therefore did not explain, for example, more than three times the regular use of antihypertensives and a higher rate of pulmonary and cardiac drug utilisation compared to the rest of the population. In addition to these health problems, there were negative social effects. Mr President! The problem is not legislation which, in principle, provides protection and protection for both people and the environment. The problem is insufficient resources to monitor compliance with environmental permit obligations and, as in the case of Ämmassuo, to place activities far too close to the population. That is why it is quite worrying that, in this miserable economic situation, we will also have to reduce these control resources. Then, briefly, I would like to mention from this debate on national parks that, if it is really not possible to build two new national parks, I would definitely lean on this Hossa, which has been praised a great deal here. My argument is that the Porkkala region has become an address for local residents, with the names of more than 400 people who are opposed to this Porkkala construction because it is expensive, and then they will see that the natural values would be better preserved if the national park were not built there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u231	Since Minister Tiilikainen will be here in about three minutes, please, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u232	Madam President! A few corrections to Mr Myller and also to Mr Mustajärvi. I have been zealous for nature conservation since I was a child, lived with nature and got my bread from it, so that the talk that it was something else is not true. It's been three decades of evidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u237	The general discussion on this point is suspended. We'll do it later tonight.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u238	The discussion on the administrative branch of the Ministry of the Environment continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u239	Mr President! In this section of the Ministry of the Environment, when dealing with the 2016 budget, I draw attention to a few issues relating to housing and construction policy. We have been talking here for many days straight about the bioeconomy at various points, we have been talking about industrial policy, employment policy, general economic policy. The essential element in our bioeconomy is that wood can be used more and more in as many ways as possible. Of course, construction has been a key way of using wood in all human history, and good work has been done to ensure that the construction of wood in Finland progresses both in housing production and in public construction. I believe it is important to continue to promote wood construction and to dismantle unnecessary barriers to wood construction. The second point, Mr President, to which I would like to draw attention, is that we in Finland now need real solutions to the various problems of mould and moisture. They affect both our public side and our housing. This is having a very big impact on our economy as a whole, on the economies of individuals who come into a situation where they happen to buy a dwelling or a residential building where there are problems with mould or moisture, and above all on our municipal and state buildings, where there have been many different problems with moisture and mould. In our housing policy, there is such a problem of confrontation. On the other hand, it appears that the collateral values of many dwellings are falling and that there is no information as to whether they have exactly any liquidity in the market if they are to be sold. On the other hand, we then have a need for affordable rental housing in growth centres and partly in rural areas. This would certainly also require a more extensive analysis of how we could balance this whole of housing across the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u240	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about wood construction and its importance in increasing Finland's economic activity. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in its own opinion on the budget drew attention to the importance of wood construction as part of the drive towards a low carbon society and the promotion of the bioeconomy. The committee drew attention to the fact that, although the promotion of wood construction is strongly reflected in the Government Programme, the draft budget does not include the allocation for the promotion of wood construction. Nevertheless, I am firmly convinced that this good Sipilä Government will do all it can to promote the construction of wood, and one of the government's key projects will certainly be promoted in the future. Reducing red tape and removing barriers to wood construction is an essential part of creating new forms of wood construction and these forms of new Finnish strong companies, which could then, among other things, use changes in zoning or zoning to promote wood construction, get a strong domestic market in Finland, new products launched here and produce their own production. Through this I believe that in the future we will also receive new export products from the wood construction sector to Finland, which will then bring us export income, work and activity to the whole kingdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u241	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to a few issues in terms of housing and housing policy. Ara's activities have raised some criticism in recent years of the fact that this so-called urban cohesion policy, which may rather be regarded as a concentration policy, has also been implemented in such a way that Ara has flouted certain construction projects of general interest, such as the construction of housing associations in municipalities and small towns with a declining population. Ara has taken the line that, for example, there are no benefits and subsidies for the start-up and construction of senior house-type blocks for older people. I hope that Mr Tiilikainen will now address this issue. We see the situation that there are still very many special groups in this country that need their own building. More importantly, special care for people with mental disabilities has gone to the fact that people are no longer kept in institutions but must have their own home or at least domestic conditions. They also need special construction in rural and smaller towns. Finland is ageing, the silver age groups are sailing there in our cities and villages. It would be a very good thing for them to have this kind of seniority. Even in rural areas, it is no longer customary for the old couple to stay in a house of blame, but to give the young couple the opportunity to build their own lives on that farm. Then it may be that the ageing couple, the host and host, move to the church village or their city centre, and for them a very good option would be such a senior house, where they would have prepared to bring all those social and health services to the apartment, it is completely unhindered, and this should be promoted. President! I would also like to end by saying that the dismantling of bureaucracy and the streamlining of regulations — construction must be put down, unnecessary operating permits must be removed, and it must be possible to build small buildings on its own land with just a declaration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u242	Mr President! Wood construction has been on the table in our committee several times. That is, above all, about dismantling red tape. For example, the construction of a zero-energy house from wood is today and will probably continue to be impossible, so we need to take into account the real needs of wood construction and the issues it should take into account. Wood construction is not necessarily about budget appropriations, but rather about will and measures so that we create the conditions that in the future it will actually be more possible to build wood. It is indeed a question of breaking down barriers, of how we can build more from wood in Finland in the right way. In other words, it is up to us in committee to make it possible to use wood in a diverse way. Of course, this increase in wood construction is a challenge for our committee, and at least I, for my part, am happy to be involved in solving this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u243	Introduce Section 36 on interest rates on government debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u244	Mr. Speaker! It is always with such enthusiasm in this Chamber that we talk about whether we should reduce government debt or not reduce government debt, and especially that on the left and on the green, it often becomes clear that we can take up debt, even more and more. In fact, it seems a little strange that there are now six of us here in the Chamber discussing what these interest payments really mean to the state economy and to the public finances as a whole. Mr President! The Federal Reserve of the United States, Fed, has just announced that it will raise its key interest rate, and this is certainly a global message and impulse that it will also influence the rise in reference rates and key interest rates worldwide, and the level of interest rates, which has even been morbidly low, as has been said in previous sections, will probably rise. We can expect the European Central Bank, too, to raise its key interest rates in a certain period of time. Our continent, the continent of Europe, and the EU countries have greatly recovered from the financial crisis, and in many countries it is already going quite well, unlike Finland and unfortunately our good brother, Greece, which is in the same situation as Finland. The market is in a rather unusual position. Stock prices are very high because investors do not get any returns from any of the other instruments. It is therefore quite right to ask and ask whether we have some kind of global bubble at hand, which may then burst into a new financial crisis. Mr President! I wanted to make these comments when it comes to the interest rates on sovereign debt, because here some of us think that we can take the debt to the limit and nothing should be cut, nothing should be saved. Interest expenses mean a lot to what kind of welfare services we can have in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u245	The fourth item in the order of business is oral Question Time. The ministers are already in place, so I would ask those representatives who wish to put a question to the minister present to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u246	First question, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u247	Mr President! In the difficult times we are living in, people are being treated fairly: different populations are being treated in an understandable and acceptable way in relation to each other. One thing is particularly important for this fairness, and that is taxation. At the beginning of next year, we come to the point where the government's tax policies bring pensioners less into the hands than employees, workers, who receive the same income. It has plagued many pensioners, especially since there were quite different promises before the elections. I now quote the speech of the then Prime Minister, Mr Stubb, just before the elections: 'We must see where the tax revenue comes from and whether it is fair. Our basic philosophy is that pensions cannot be taxed more hard than work, i.e. pension tax and labour tax on the same line." A lot of retired people believed this, but that's not what happened. How did this happen, Minister Stubb?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u248	Madam President! Our starting point in this government is that labour taxation will be reduced: for example, it will reduce the reduction in labour income by EUR 450 million. If and when we reach a social pact and the accompanying 5+5+5 package and we can verify it, then we will also meet pensioners with a tax reduction of around one billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u249	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u250	Mr President! I understand that you mean that the next tax solution would be such that pensioners will also receive relief, but not next year's tax solution, which would then mean that this difference between a worker and a pensioner would remain permanent. What you called an unfair procedure before the elections would not only apply next year but would be permanent. This is quite different from what you, Mr Stubb, spoke before the elections and I am sure it will upset quite a few people who have voted for you and your party. You've changed the sled in this matter of pensioners' tax. You are not giving pensioners the same tax treatment as a worker. And now you tell me that this will continue and that this separation will be made permanent. I wonder how such a major change can take place when you said that this is a basic philosophy, that it is treated in the same way, and that you considered the other procedure unfair. Is there a new definition of unfair conduct now, Mr Stubb?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u251	Madam President! Of course, we are assuming that this is a government Question Time, and we are basing our entire tax policy, of course, on the Government Programme and the whole. We are trying to keep our tax policies stable, which in practice means that we have a broad tax base and low tax rates. We are also trying to make taxation simpler in the future than it is today. We are also aware that, in its own way, social funding will also revolutionise our tax system. And there is also a fundamental principle here that we are going to build, and that is that taxation and the tax system would be fairer. I am sure that, even during this reign, reforms will be made to the tax system along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u252	Madam President! I do not think it is very fair that you, the government and Minister Stubb, are now acting in complete violation of the promises you made to the pensioner population before the elections and telling you that it is an honour and a fundamental philosophy for the assembly. And, as Mrs Heinäluoma has said, I believe that many pensioners could vote and trust on this basis. It will be a really cold shower at the beginning of next year when many pensioners discover that their taxes on employees become unfair. President! Tomorrow we will vote on this. Under the SDP option, the tax treatment is uniform and brings pensioners approximately EUR 250 more into the hand to the average pension recipient. Are you going to vote on whether, in this situation, the Coalition Party will vote in accordance with this motion by the SDP?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u253	Madam President! No, he won't.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u254	Mr President! In many ways, the government increases the poverty of pensioners. Many simultaneous surgeries, especially for older people, make many elderly people choose even between food and medicine. This is a highly inhumane policy. The government itself admits that the number of income support customers will increase, and it is a great shame for many elderly people to apply for income support to meet basic needs. What answer does the government give to a growing group of elderly people who have to choose whether to buy food or medicine?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u255	Madam President! The government has left and assumes that its own income, whether it is pension income or other social security-related income, must succeed. These changes, which will be made in the various benefits for next year, are similar to the fact that in euro, and the disposable income does not, in principle, fall. Second thing, payments are going up. The most affected have been taken into account, the caps do not change. Secondly, the pensioner's housing allowance system, which was part of the government's savings list: after a long march and preparation, it was found that in that form the proposal did not come to Parliament. What is the answer? The answer is that all people in Finland will continue to be taken care of and, fortunately, we have a income support system for people who are in need of last resort income support. Well, that's the way that the bread is going to end up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u256	Madam President! Minister Stubb, this is something you will not get away from. You made this promise just before the election. Just a week before the election, you said that work and pension should be taxed in the same way, and now you say no. Your proposal means that pensioners will be placed on an unequal footing in taxation. Pensioners in our country will be made to pay more taxes, and in two weeks this clock will start ticking, from then on the tax differential will increase. For a middle-income pensioner, this means more than EUR 200 per year, nearly EUR 500 per year for a couple. We have put forward an alternative to this: from retirement to more in hand next year. Now you say that pensioners can be taxed more heavily than employees. Pensioners would now be interested to know how big your
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u257	Madam President! Of course, the starting point is that the line of work that the government has chosen, in which we are trying to create 110,000 new jobs over the next few years, will also strengthen the livelihood of pensioners. It is clear that we are carrying out impact assessments of all these along the way and we are trying to build a tax system that is as fair as possible. However, we must remember that at the moment we are in a difficult situation in which, when we look at adjustments, we will no longer be able to do what was done during the previous period, i.e. tax evasion in one form or another, will no longer be possible at this stage. Of course, this is because our overall tax rate is one of the largest in the Western world, more than 44% compared to the OECD average, which is around 34% or 39.5 in the old EU countries. Taxation is always considered as a whole and the best solutions are sought. I can also say that as Minister of Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u258	Mr President! It is true that when the government makes tough and painful cuts to the position of low-income workers — for example, the reduction of medical allowances for many low-income pensioners and increases in contributions and, in addition, the freeze on housing subsidies and other solutions — when you make these tax reliefs for those who work, which I think is right for those who work on low incomes, you could at the same time have considered raising the basic deduction of municipal tax, so that the lowest-income people who receive social security and receive the lowest pensions would have received more in their hands, and then your cuts would not hit them so badly. My question is, Mr Stubb: when you said just now that we can then look at the social pact later, is it not rather the case that fair tax decisions should first be taken in order to get out of this, rather than the fact that, first of all, tough decisions are taken on the low incomes and perhaps they will be corrected later?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u259	Madam President! Unfortunately, I believe that this is where our economic policy and our economic philosophy differ. We have talked a lot about a positive economic circle, which in practice means that competitiveness will first be created, competitiveness will be accompanied by growth, jobs will be created, tax revenue will be created and tax revenues will be able to build a welfare society and a welfare state. Mr Niinistö, it does not go the other way. We cannot first determine the level of the welfare state, then see how much tax revenue comes from, and then think about where the tax revenue comes from. We must first build the cake on which the well-being is built.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u260	Mr President! This government, when it started, tried to find solutions to promote work and thus strengthen the basic pillar of the welfare society. This now gives the impression that this government was increasing the tax on pensioners. This is not at all the case; the taxation of pensioners remains the same as that of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u261	Madam President! After all, we are in a situation where the taxation of pensioners is not increasing. And it must also be remembered in this debate that we are keeping to the reality that it is certainly not blackmailing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u262	Madam President! The taxation of pensioners will really be tighter next year in relation to the taxation of employees, but it will be even tighter for the unemployed. The basic daily allowance, labour market support, in practice, pays almost 20% of the tax on their small incomes. This is, of course, due to the fact that if the basic deduction is not increased but the reduction in earnings is increased, the difference will increase in the taxation of workers on the one hand and the unemployed or pensioners on the other. Now the question is, Mr Soini, the Prime Minister's deputy: is it right that unemployed people and pensioners pay a much higher tax than those who work? And if you do not think that is right, what will the government do to remedy this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u263	Madam President! It all starts with the desire for the unemployed to get to work. It's the way they're being picked up from the income trap. It is the way in which we must invest: employment, employment and the promotion of these things. This is the only solution to sustainable well-being, and that is the only way we can afford to take better care of the underprivileged, unemployed people in our society. Of course, the unemployed must have a livelihood, and that last income is income support, but of course the government and all those responsible, including the business community, must strive to have jobs in which the unemployed can go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u264	Madam President! Throughout the autumn we have heard that the government is cutting especially from families with children, especially from students, especially from the unemployed, especially from children, especially from employees, and now from pensioners in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u268	Mr President! If you can listen, I'll give you the answer first and then I'll ask you one more question. The answer is that, at the beginning of 2015, the taxation of pensioners relative to employees was the same. It was the same size. I assume that is why the previous government approved it. And that is why Minister Rinte's request for an additional amendment was also accepted, and a reduction in pension income was raised. But its representative, Mr Zyskowicz, would like to forget that the coalition promised the pensioners before the elections that this principle would be kept sacred after the elections. And now Minister Stubb is squirming here since September when he refuses to say that I have changed my position or failed my promise. Have you changed the position or have you betrayed the promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u269	Madam President! Perhaps the difference, Mr Heinäluoma, between you and me, is that we are constantly trying to create a tax policy that lowers the tax threshold and makes doing and doing work in this country worthwhile. Last season you, Mr Heinäluoma with your party, did nothing but blackmail and increase the taxes in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u270	Madam President! It is quite right to note that many pensioners experience injustice in their own taxation, certainly many employees. And it is also true that, before the elections, there was a promise of one and another by the government, which is not now coming about, and that is, of course, an unfortunate fact. It is good to remember, as far as the levy is concerned, that it is indeed the case that many pensioners experience injustice in that regard. In the RKP's alternative budget, this has been corrected. I have two questions for you, Minister Stubb. The first is: have you noticed this and at what point are you going to do something about it? And the second question is: how does the government intend to encourage retired people to work because many still have energy and time and taxation should encourage people, if they are healthy, to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u271	Irade the Talman! Vi har visst vä noterat SFP:s förslag vissavi pensioner och beskattningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u272	Madam President! Admittedly, there is a slight impression here, as if the Social Democrats and the opposition were somehow opposed to this reduction in earnings of EUR 450 million, which is targeted specifically at the average wage and low wage earners. I consider this to be a very good thing. I would ask, Minister, if I were just to check whether I heard correctly: did you say that if we got the social pact and this competitiveness leap done, a billion dollars tax reduction could be applied to pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u273	Mr President! I did not say, but then we will make a billion tax reductions in their entirety and look at this. But perhaps one of the things that has been forgotten here is that we are also doing an ati check and, as a result, taxation will be reduced in real terms and will remain at the same level for both employees and pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u274	Madam President! In addition to income after tax for many elderly people, the level of well-being of pensioners depends on the kind of social and health services available. A regulation was adopted by the government which allows municipalities to increase these social welfare and health care charges by up to 30 per cent. Many municipalities in their money shortages are now doing this. I would have asked whether this could not have waited until that social welfare solution was reached and see how these social and health services could then be organised in these social welfare areas. Did you have to go now with these charges because they are going to eat a considerable amount of the income of many people with a great deal of suffering?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u275	Madam Speaker! First of all, the municipalities' capacity to produce services will be at least at the current level next year, if not better, because the government's proposal for next year's budget and the budget already approved by Parliament will contain EUR 290 million more money per year for municipalities, which has resulted, among other things, in the fact that for many years the smallest number of municipalities has had to raise the income tax rate. Local government finances have been stabilised in this respect. Secondly, what is necessary, what is waiting for social welfare reform, we have a large package here, the whole system of social welfare and health care, the basis for it, and even at a time when it is being built up, prepared and legislation is being prepared as a law for a changing set of rules, we simply have to take decisions and make decisions which, firstly, try to balance the economy and, secondly, at the same time ensure that services are available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u276	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u277	Mr President! It must be said that it is good to remember that it would be fair for what people are promised to be kept. In that regard, it is legitimate to ask whether these speeches, which have been made, are really true. I think it was fair that Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, here, acknowledged in front of the whole Parliament and his people that work and its priority has also been at the forefront of this government in terms of taxation. In this regard, you have introduced this centre line, where the centre genuinely wanted to ensure that both employees and those receiving pension income will be treated differently from the same income. It was a surprise to us that the vote went on, because you promised a few weeks before the elections quite differently. In this respect, I wonder why you think that the work and pension income of pensioners who have had a long career would not be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u278	Madam President! Perhaps as a first point: during the last parliamentary term, the Socialist Party wanted precisely to balance the economy by increasing the tax burden on wages and pensions. I would like to emphasise once again that the decision that has now been taken in this government will not increase the tax burden on pensioners. It does not increase the taxation of pensioners, and I say once again that it does not increase the taxation of pensioners. Here we have a clear wage calculation, the tax rate for persons under 53 years of age and receiving pension income at different income levels in 2016. That parity, as it were, will be very small, at least temporarily. But I would like to emphasise once again that this government will not increase the tax burden on pensioners, except when more than EUR 119000 goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u279	Next question, Congressman Vartia.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u280	Madam President! The outcome of the negotiations on a new international climate agreement was reached in Paris last weekend. At the same time, it was decided to tighten the objective of combating climate change to 1.5°C. However, national emission pledges by countries lead to warming of up to 3°C. This would certainly be catastrophic for mankind. In the Paris Agreement, the leaders of the countries jointly acknowledged that the current emission targets are not sufficient. It was decided to review them every five years and for the first time in 2018. The EU's 2030 emissions targets are also not in line with the new international target. Targets need to be tightened. My question is: what is the government going to do about raising the EU's emissions targets to the level that they are in line with the climate agreement's tightened target?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u281	Madam President! The questioner was quite right that the Paris Agreement is a turning point, because for the first time in the world all countries are committing themselves to measures to limit the harmful, destructive warming of the climate. In fact, in that agreement, all countries commit themselves to the plans they have given in advance. The European Union commits to reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030. The Finnish Government has acted in some advantage here, because already in the Government Programme we decided that the climate targets for 2020 to increase the share of renewable energy and reduce emissions will be achieved during the current parliamentary term. We have also presented very ambitious targets for Finland in terms of increasing the share of renewable energy by as much as 50% by 2030, and this is where we are going to start. The EU will decide on its own more specific 2030 climate targets in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u282	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u283	Madam President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy is currently preparing a new climate and energy strategy and a support system for renewable energy. In its strategy, how does the government intend to direct consumption in a non-emission-free direction? Is the government prepared to tax much more emissions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u284	Madam Speaker! This Paris Agreement is a very important milestone for mankind, and I believe that all negotiators should be congratulated on this important step and also on Minister Kimmo Tiilika, who played a very important role in the EU delegation in these negotiations. The Finnish Government will act in accordance with the EU's common decisions, in line with the Energy and Climate Agenda, which aims at 2030, which is in line with these decisions in Paris. It also includes, in particular, a measure which is appropriate to the thinking of the ecological market economy represented by Mr Vartia on the development of emissions trading. Emissions trading has not functioned in an ideal way and it is therefore necessary to ensure that these common emissions targets are met in the future, specifically through the development of the emissions trading system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u285	Mr President! It is indeed worth congratulating Minister Tiilika and the entire Finnish negotiating team on the fine outcome of the Paris Agreement. But, as Mr Vartia has already said, what was agreed in Paris requires all countries, including the EU and Finland, to tighten up their current targets. Among other things, Sitra has highlighted the fact that Finland has the opportunity to gain a great deal of new jobs and export income by exporting climate-friendly technologies. This requires, however, that we raise the level of ambition at home. My question is: is the government really going to raise what has been decided so far? As far as I am concerned, I am very pleased with what Mr Rehn has just said. I understand that this means that the government welcomes the fact that the EU emissions trading cap is being tightened. That is one of the things that is needed in order for the Paris commitments to actually be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u286	Mr President! Mr Hassi takes a very important point of view, i.e. the impact of this climate agreement on Finland's economy and employment and the opportunities that this opens up for us. Now, the first comment about the Paris Agreement is, of course, that once Finland and the EU have already committed themselves to a rather ambitious climate action, now that other major economies in the world are involved, it will improve the competitiveness of the Finnish industry in relation to other parts of the world and help to secure existing jobs. But even more important is the development of energy efficiency, renewable energy, emission-free industrial processes in the new industries, where the market is now growing for a long time with this agreement. And this is what the government’s strategic goal is to become the leader of these things. That's what we're driving with our top project. It also requires these demonstration facilities and pilot activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u287	Madam Speaker! As I said, those decisions in Paris are in line with the EU's energy and climate agenda for 2030, which Finland strongly supports. By the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we have launched an impact assessment of the Paris agreement on employment and competitiveness. This agreement works in both directions for Finland, i.e. cleantech, in the area of clean solutions, we have huge, significant opportunities where literally only the sky is the roof. The demand for China will be enormous in the coming decades. On the other hand, emissions trading is also a challenge for Finnish energy-intensive industries, and it is important that in these negotiations we ensure that Finland is in line with all other European countries and other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u288	Mr President! It is really great that the climate agreement was created in Paris, because climate change is the greatest threat to humanity, and now that a global agreement has been reached, there is no longer any reason to deal with the fight against climate change. Finnish industry also sees this agreement and the fight against climate change as a great opportunity for Finnish industry and job creation. But I'd like to ask you about climate finance. As part of the agreement, it was agreed that USD 100 billion of climate finance will be allocated to developing countries each year to prepare for climate change and contribute to the fight against climate change. What is Finland’s contribution to climate finance, and from what budget will it be covered?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u289	Mr President! Indeed, industrial countries, rich countries committed themselves to keeping that promised level of funding of USD 100 billion at 2020 level at the same level until 2025. New donor countries are also invited to help the weakest countries, and this will unfortunately only happen on a voluntary basis. It would have been very nice if big economic giants such as China and India had also committed themselves to providing funding — indeed, they do in practice, but only part of this money is, so to speak, budget money or public money. Just as important is the second part of the financing agreement, which commits itself to developing new sources and instruments on a broad front in order to mobilise private ones as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u290	Madam President! The Paris climate agreement was perhaps the best Christmas gift the global community could get. I would like to draw attention to these business opportunities. Who exactly is in charge of the preparation or coordination of how the Finnish industry can catch up on this issue and so that it brings us export income, jobs and then its well-being? Further, perhaps in this kind of more detailed question. It is likely that Minister Soini will be the best able to answer this question. Would it be thought that the Finnish Embassy Network would be included as a top project and even integrated into the 2017 jubilee year this climate issue, export opportunities and Finland’s expertise in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u291	As the representative said, this is indeed an important opportunity for Finnish business and industry, and it must be taken advantage of. That is why the government already anticipates in its programme that we are investing very strongly in renewable energy and bioeconomy, and this is a key element of the key projects that the government has launched. The key player here is Tekes, the Centre for the Development of Technology and Innovation, as well as other operators of the TEM Group, such as Finnvera, Finpro and Industrial Investment. It is very important that, as part of the key projects, we strengthen the opportunities for promoting exports in the region where we see the most perspectives. This is done by increasing the resources of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Finpro for the commercial network, specifically cleantech and bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u292	Madam President! This question by Mr Kiuru was indeed essential. After all, Finland has a fairly good reputation and proof that our embassies, for example, are environmentally friendly. For example, our embassy in Washington is a famous and model case. This must, of course, be taken forward. For Team Finland, these efforts must and can be made. Now Minister Toivakka, who is our real trading horse in the world, has been promoting these very issues both in Iran and now in Africa in Lake Turkana, which is what is being done. This is also the Finnish way of helping developing countries and emerging economies to develop and raise themselves up and not just to abandon aid
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u293	Mr President! Here Minister Rehn said that only the sky is the roof of how much Finland can take from this cleantech. That is the case, and it is therefore a great pity that Tekes' research and development appropriations have been cut. But now these traditional customs are not enough, but transport must also be taken in particular. I would ask the Minister of Transport how we are now preparing for the fact that in practice 2050 CO2 emissions must be zero. I personally think that rail transport is the most important way. How, then, is this now linked to the fact that in many places rail traffic is being cut, especially from North Karelia? But for this we also need development projects. Rail traffic in Eastern Finland could be developed by creating a double track between Luumäki and the Gulf of Central Finland. I believe that there would also be EU development money for such a large development project. Are we prepared for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u294	Madam President! Transport targets are indeed demanding, and it is quite clear that we need to focus on three key issues in practice. We must ensure that we have increased use of liquid biofuels in transport, but that also requires significant investment from us. In addition to this, we must ensure that we also have additional alternative power, and this also requires tax policy from us. We need more electric cars, we also need more gas cars and hydrogen cars. The third factor is to ensure the efficiency of our transport system. It requires us to develop digital services, it requires us to develop our rail transport, which is partly through the opening-up of competition, and it demands that we also invest in our infrastructure, which we are doing over the next three years with a huge investment in the debt of repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u295	Mr President! These opportunities, which the Paris Agreement opens up, are really spread across a wide sector. Now we must not just think that it is some kind of technology for us. Let me take an example in the field of education. While negotiations are still under way, although Finland and the EU and Indonesia may be in slightly different camps in this negotiating position themselves, at a bilateral meeting with the Indonesian Minister, we have already looked at the future possibilities for cooperation that we can have after the climate agreement has been concluded, and a very high level of the agency has given rise to the possibility of, for example, building forestry education. They have huge credit for Finnish forest know-how, and now that we universities have the opportunity to sell qualifications abroad too, we need to seize opportunities of this kind and start tailoring the training that developing countries need to be able to implement an ambitious climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u296	Madam President! However, despite the creation of a glowing climate agreement, there are many dark clouds in the air. There will also be difficult discussions within the EU when the agreement should be implemented by coal-dependent Poland and other Eastern European countries. There have also been gravel sounds from Finland. For example, the environmental director of Outokumpu has suspended the results of the Paris climate because it did not make a binding agreement on the global allocation of emissions costs. So I ask the Minister: how will the competitiveness of traditional industries and jobs be secured in Finland when the agreement enters into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u297	Mr President! It is this concern about Finland’s economy and employment that is of course one of the factors contributing to the implementation of climate policy. In any case, as I said, Finland and the EU have already committed themselves to taking very ambitious climate action, and now that other major economic areas in the world are involved in these climate action, and at the same time, the playing field is on its balance sheet. Compared to the current situation, the operating conditions of Finnish heavy industry, energy-intensive industries, will thus improve in relation to life outside the EU. When we have this EU 2030 climate package in preparation and it involves the modernisation of the emissions trading system and, as part of it, the directing of free allowances in global competition to the most stringent industries with the greatest energy demand, I believe that this climate agreement together and the decisions that the EU will take in the future will be able to ensure that industry in Finland and in the European Union is able to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u298	Mr President, ärade talman! Many feel that white Christmas is traditional in the same way as Santa Claus, Christmas tree or Christmas ham.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u299	Mr President! As I said earlier, the Government has in fact wanted to slow down Finland's climate action by its own decisions, because we have every opportunity to move forward in renewable energy faster than we have promised and at the same time drive emissions down slightly faster than we have promised. The EU has made a joint commitment that it will certainly hold to. With regard to this financial system, I have already described that not only do we have taxpayers' money to help the poor to cope with climate change and to adapt to climate change, but also the mobilisation of private funding and the different new sources of funding. In this respect, even though we had to make these unfortunate cuts in development funding, including the reorientation of development funding, such as the capitalisation of Finnfund, will certainly open up these new opportunities even for private money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u300	One last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u301	Madam President! Turkey and Russia have been pecking in the last few weeks. Russian Rosatom is building the first nuclear power plant in Turkey in southern Turkey. Last week, Reuters reported that Rosatom might have stopped the construction of the nuclear power plant because of these peckings. In connection with the granting of Fennovoima's nuclear licence, many representatives of the government parties assured us that Rosatom would not take decisions for political reasons, but only energy policy. Instead of renewable energy, you chose such an absurd project. So can Rosatom stop or stop the Fennovoima project in Finland for political reasons too? Are you prepared for this, Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u303	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u304	Mr President! In 2002, the Supreme Administrative Court, in its yearbook decision, knocked down the project of Vuotos, which had been wailed for decades, and despite the decision of the highest possible authority, the county minions have not abandoned their project but have been fighting local people from one decade to the next. The name and justification for the pool project has changed, but it is still the same leaky pool. The reason for this is flood protection. Intentionally, the flood group set a risk limit for the Kemijoki River once every 250 years at a threatening major flood. In other parts of Finland and Europe, the limit is 100 years. Does Minister Tiilikainen consider such an exception justified?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u305	Madam President! The changing climate also obliges us to adapt, and flood protection plans are currently being made throughout the EU in river basins where the flood risk is high. This is also the case for 21 river basins in Finland, where regional flood protection teams have done this work and have made their own presentations to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which will confirm flood protection plans in so far as they are considered appropriate in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u306	I would ask those Members who wish to ask questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u307	Mr President! The Ely Centre of Lapland and the actual municipalities of the pool area Savukoski, Pelkosenniemi and Kemijärvi left a different opinion in the flood group's presentation, and local views have also been ignored in the regional planning. Many local and regional politicians, who always criticize the masters of Helsinki for not listening to the Lapps, are now trampling on local views and walking over local decision-makers. Will Minister Tiilikainen listen to the local decision-makers, i.e. the people and municipal decision-makers directly concerned, and he will respect and respect the previous decision of the Supreme Administrative Court when you take a decision on flood risk management in the next few days, and does the Minister for the Environment agree with the Minister for Agriculture in this government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u308	Mr President! In this action by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I have promised that the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will not quarrel with each other this season. That's a promise I'm gonna keep. As far as these flood protection plans are concerned, I am well aware of the contradictions and disagreements described by Mr Mustajärvi, which is what is involved in this particular flood protection project, and that is why I intend to study this issue extremely well before I give a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u309	Madam President! Energy palette in Finland must be kept diverse, and above all we must invest in renewable energy, both solar and wind power and hydropower. We would have a lot of potential in Lapland in terms of hydropower, but the problem is that the latest Sierilä power plant project has been running for 11 years at the wheel of bureaucracy. In other words, above all, we must aim to streamline and speed up the authorisation. New nuclear power projects are decided here in Parliament on the application of the company, but the construction of the new pool has been rejected by the Supreme Administrative Court. So I ask you, Minister of Justice Lindström: should not significant and far-reaching hydropower projects also be decided here in Parliament by means of political reflection and not by a court of law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u310	Madam President! The questioner is, of course, right that such projects are of national importance. The fact that you are asking me here and now to take a stand on what should be done is quite a lot to ask. Of course, I can promise you that there will be a debate on this issue, but what this debate will lead to will then be at the time of the subsequent conclusions. I know that this project is an emotional one and it is very important, but in this context I will not draw any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u311	Mr President! It is clear that we do not have any form of energy that would receive the unreserved support of all citizens. I'm sure there'll be supporters and opponents for everyone, and if we're talking about hydropower, it's obvious that there's the one who mentioned the original question. In the province of Lapland, a clear majority of residents are in favour of the construction of already built watercourses. Now I would like to ask the minister in question: it is true that the government has not excluded hydropower in the already built watercourses when there are important social grounds for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u312	Mr President! The government has not ruled out various energy options. This initial question was, of course, related to flood protection plans designed to protect cities, the population and the vital functions of communities against extraordinary flood conditions. The solution to the flood protection plan is now being made, and it is a very far-reaching legal decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u313	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u314	Mr President! There are great salmon rivers in Lapland, as you all know, the Teno River and Tornio River, and they also dream of returning salmon along the Kemi River. The Ounasjoki River and the Kemijoki mainbed at the top are unbuilt watercourses, but if the Vuotos pool is built, the dreams of returning salmon can be rejected. The nature of the area is unique, and the area is far too valuable to drown. How does the minister feel that the state would really make a strong contribution to financing and driving the construction of salmon stairs? And as a comment, I find it rather miserable that the salmon rising to the top of the Kemijoki River wants to destroy a congressman whose name is Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u315	Mr President! Instead, the government wants to promote the success of migratory fish stocks, and in fact one of the government's top projects is precisely this promotion of migratory fish stocks, the implementation of a strategy on the fishing road, and there are also appropriations for this during the current parliamentary term. The time has not yet come for a solution to which precisely these key government project funds can support the rise and increase of migratory fish and, of course, for taxpayers' money to be as effective as possible, i.e. to involve future companies, possibly regional, municipal, project funding. These criteria will then be used to select the targets that can be implemented in the fisheries road strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u316	Next question, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u317	Mr President! This past year has been confusing to us Finns in many ways, even distressing in some respects. Here in Parliament we have had a lot of heated discussions from different angles and values. There were some things we didn't agree on. But now it's time to slow down and calm down at Christmastime. While I wish the government and you, Deputy Prime Minister Soini, a peaceful and peaceful Christmas season, I ask: what do you think the elves have done for us Finns next year, soft or compelling packages?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u318	Madam President! The colour of Christmas is red; I believe it is suitable for the SDP and the Left Alliance. The Christmas tree is green; I believe it is suitable for the Greens. The star of Christmas is yellow; I think it fits the RKP. The message of Christmas is Christian; I believe it is suitable for Christians. And here we are, on the other hand, elves, if necessary; I think it is all right for all of us. I wish the opposition, this treasure of democracy, a calming Christmas season so that you will be able to treat us fairly again next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u319	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 9 December 2015. Minister Tiilikainen will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u320	Madam President! In this introductory speech, I seek a reasonable degree of rigour because I understand the time and the need for a late evening to be able to say a word about this reform of the Metsähallitus law. I will start with why the Metsähallitus Act is being reformed, why forestry is being introduced into the company form. It is not possible to continue the current business model in such a way that the market-based forestry business is still located inside an insolvent business establishment. In other words, we already have a Commission decision for 2007, which states that this Finnish law on business is not valid and relevant in this respect. Since then, the legislation on all other businesses has been practically amended, and now this law on Metsähallitus is also being amended. Many have asked why this is now such a rush, whether there is any pressure, whether the Commission comes from or where it comes from. There is no date as such for amending this Act on Business Administrations, but in the way in which it has been thought that the company is being incorporated in order to form within Metsähallitus a 100 % owned subsidiary, which will then gain the exclusive right to pursue the forestry business on the land of the State, the land in Metsähallitus, to make such an arrangement, is in a hurry, because that amendment to the procurement law, which is to be put into effect by the beginning of April after the parliamentary procedure, would make such an arrangement virtually impossible. The risk would be very high that this arrangement could no longer be made. Well, now, after all the discussion that has taken place on this matter and there have been many concerns in the air, the concerns actually reflect the love and appreciation that Finns have for Metsähallitus. Now this legislative change will ensure that Metsähallitus remains the whole. The state will continue to own the land and water areas of the state, their ownership will not be transferred anywhere, and Metsähallitus will then manage these land and water areas of the state. Of course, of the whole of the benefits to society in Metsähallitus countries, there is the yield from economic forests, which is a very significant item in the state budget. Next year, I think 130 million will be that revenue target, which Metsähallitus will then make available to us in our budget for a number of good purposes. Metsähallitus also manages and manages the nature reserves and national parks, which are also more desirable here today, and, of course, they produce that biodiversity, but also a lot of recreational services for citizens. They are very important destinations for hiking and recreation, but they are also very important for the tourism business. In other words, Metsähallitus will continue to produce all the good that is expected of it, and these social obligations that have been imposed on Metsähallitus will remain as they are. Even business activities, which is only part of Metsähallitus' activities, take into account biodiversity, the recreational use of nature, the management of employment, the promotion of Sámi culture and reindeer husbandry, and then the tourism industry. During the various hearings, which took place in the autumn on this subject, I moved, so I asked the dozens and dozens of people present — actually there were a few hundred people at these events — to give a rating for the current activities of Metsähallitus, just by school grade, by hand reference to the appropriate number, and yes there was the grade that almost all the parties in Metsähallitus gave. Keeping this type of activity, which is appreciated, as similar as possible so that it is hardly visible to the public, is a red thread in this whole reform. That is why, even after these hearings, the changes have been made, the need for employment management has continued to be included, and it has been stressed that the employees of this company will also have the opportunity to coordinate with the local authorities the different needs and interests that exist there. The good cooperation at the local level that Metsähallitus is appreciated and commended for is not jeopardised by this law either. The social guidance of Metsähallitus continues in the same way as it has been so far, that there will be no changes in the steering tasks of Parliament and the Government. The Parliament approves these key service and other operational objectives of Metsähallitus in connection with budget processing. In this context, efforts are being made to clarify the management system to the extent possible, particularly as regards public administrative tasks. This is also a change that was made after these hearings, that when these public administration activities were described in a reasonably general way in the previous draft, as it were in the Ministry of the Environment's field of activity, it was more clearly limited to certain laws, the implementation of which then the public administration tasks, the nature services are responsible for. The decision-making power of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO includes that natural resource planning, the personnel policy of the entire business establishment, joint human and financial management, information management, communication and publishing activities. This is intended to ensure that Metsähallitus' overall picture is maintained. In northern and eastern Finland, where Metsähallitus plays the most important role and, of course, those countries mainly of the state, Metsähallitus is an extremely important employer. Today, the Group employs 1,750 employees, some six hundred of whom are, 650 may be there, on the side of public administration and Nature Services, and more than a thousand here in the mother business. From now on, a very large proportion of the employees of this parent company, between 600 and 700, will be employed by this limited company, if not a little more. But just in this change it is important that they retain it, as it were, the spirit of Metsähallitus and the opportunity for this local activity to continue. Concerns were also raised about this status of the Sámi. Now it has to be said that the proposal does not contain any changes that undermine the status of the Saami, but, here too, the current practice continues. I understand that, in fact, Metsähallitus has also received recognition from the Sámi side in recent years of how things have been done in practice. Concerns that every man's rights would now be reduced somehow or that hunting or fishing in the state's countries would undergo some miraculous changes are also concerns, to which it can be said that it is unnecessary for people to take them, because such changes are not included in this bill. After all, this will make the necessary changes. To enter into the business of Metsähallitus in order to ensure that this logging, forest management, supply to factories will continue to be like government work. Now it will only be taken over by its 100%-owned subsidiary of the State Metsähallitus, and in fact it will ensure these important state-owned jobs in Northern and Eastern Finland. Here, President, on the face of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u321	I would now ask those Members who wish to reserve a 1 minute reply, to reserve it by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u322	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation and thank you for having this presentation here. This has already been attempted by the previous two governments, and I myself have been involved in this myself in the past, but that is not the time to get to the port, we have now reached the port. What matters here is that these activities are clarified here. I well remember that when Metsähallitus could be regarded as a whole, EUR 54 million was the benefit of the whole, but now that these demands of competition law from the EU's head have demanded that we have to do that limited liability company, it has been done here in a way that is the implementation of its tasks, the implementation of its tasks, but which will enable these synergies to be maintained, because it is the most important one. Together with the spirit of action and action — as the Minister said here — with which Metsähallitus has acted and gained the confidence of local people, that is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u323	Mr President! Today, in Geneva, the UN Special Representative for the Rights of Indigenous Peoples has expressed concern about this law and the related rights of the Sami people, because this bill does not provide guarantees of the Sami people's right to their traditional livelihoods and territories, which were in the previous draft law. He also criticised the fact that the Sámi Parliament had only limited influence on the drafting of the law and stated that this was contrary to Article 19 of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The fact that the current government has wiped out the articles on safeguarding the rights of the Sami people under current legislation and agreements on a multiannual basis from the draft law is one of the main concerns of this government proposal, but there are others that I cannot accommodate in a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u324	Madam President! I am, however, deeply disappointed that the centre is bringing this proposal. Last season, Minister Tiilikainen, you were the chairman of a large parliamentary group in the centre and then you said that Metsähallitus should be maintained as a whole and the best for national property would be if the government were to abandon the reform altogether. I ask you, Minister Tiilikainen: what changed your mind on this matter? I also share Mr Hassi's concern here: today the UN reprimanded Finland on the draft Metsähallitus Act because the rights of the Sami people have been removed. Yes, a credible Arctic and human rights policy requires the removal of the Saami clauses. It is hidden behind the back of the EU. It is true that competition neutrality is required, i.e. bankruptcy protection and tax advantage must be abolished, but there would have been other means available to it than this joint-stocking of forestry activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u325	Mr President! Firstly, the fact that the EU is calling for the abolition of bankruptcy protection is not true. The government's proposal mentions, among other things, the model of forest organisations in the Land of Bavaria in England, Norway, France and Germany, and it has been stated specifically that these organisations can go bankrupt. It may well be that there will be new information on these matters very soon, and I ask Minister Tiilikainen that, if, for example, there is new light that the Destia decision does not oblige, there will be no general requirement to enter into a partnership with the Finnish forestry organisation — there will be many different models in the countries of the European Union, how to manage the common land, forest and water assets of the citizens of the state — there will be no EU obligation to do what you say, and we already have a number of examples of how things can be managed in many ways, which will ensure that the following parliaments have a common asset in whose balance sheets and who has the shares of the company if you go to the company model.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u326	Mr President! I, like many others here, opposed this issue of limited liability until a year ago. But next April the directive on the competitive tendering of service concessions will indeed come into force, and I am certainly not prepared to risk Poles, for example, winning the competition and coming to the management of the forests of the municipality of Savukoski. It is so important to us that it is managed by Metsähallitus and local workers. But then the municipality of Savukoski: The situation is that one fifth of our municipality's tax revenue currently comes from Metsähallitus, when Metsähallitus manages 95 per cent of our municipality's surface area. So this is an incredibly important issue. Now I would like to ask: is it certain that our municipality's tax revenues will be maintained, the fifth of the municipal tax revenues through Metsähallitus, also with this new company model?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u328	Mr President! It has already become very clear here during these few speeches that there is no real need for such a change, which has been made here, when justified by the requirements of EU competition law. And the Minister himself said that this will not bring about much change. I wonder why this change must then be made if, for those reasons, it is not necessary to do what is said and then it will not cause much change. Of course, it also confuses me that this is criticised from the point of view of conservationists and hikers, because it is feared that their rights will be restricted, and then, as has just been heard here, it is also suspected from the point of view of these municipalities, but I understand that this is also suspected from the point of view of the yield of this forest. So this is a criticism from many quarters. It is quite amazing that this criticism is so enormous if it does not have any great effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u329	Madam President! I have now been asked by a few citizens about this matter that ask there as our representative, when we here worry that not our groundwater now will then be possible to sell to foreign entrepreneurs, so that our all groundwater will soon be owned by others. I would now like this to be said in this Chamber that the public will hear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u330	Mr President! This proposal to reorganise Metsähallitus has been under discussion for years by various governments, and now it is finally here in Parliament. Thank you for that. Thank you very much. I will confine myself to one detail of the proposal, which is a management system: responsibility and power must now be clearly and unambiguously recorded, so that the dispute between each other and the cross-play can be stopped. Otherwise, there is a risk that shared responsibility is no one's responsibility. I believe that there can only be one host at a time in the house, and I believe that the clarification of the management system is most important here: if it works, all other possible problems can be resolved accordingly, but if management does not work, there is no clear and logical solution, then there is a risk that there will be no such small problem that would not paralyse Metsähallitus' activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u331	Madam President! Firstly, I am very pleased that this debate could be postponed to a point where we can attend in the presence of this minister. This is so big and important. This is about our entire national ownership. I would like to raise the issue of the only indigenous people in Europe, the Saami. Just as Mr Hassi said, today we have received reprimands from the UN level. A reporter on the rights of indigenous peoples of the United Nations has commented on this proposal, saying that this proposal, as it stands, threatens the rights of the Sami people and their potential for traditional livelihoods and countries. However, the Minister assured us that the situation of the Sámi people would not deteriorate. If that is the goal, the ambition and the state of will, why is the ban on weakening not recorded, the articles that ensured the status and rights of the Saami? Earlier, when it has been mentioned here that this has been worked on for a long time, these articles existed in the version that was worked on last season. How does the Minister intend to deal with this? Do you now hear with greater precision the UN than Finnish researchers, human rights experts, who have criticised the very same thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u332	Mr President! As the Minister said, this bill has caused a great deal of concern, and it tells us how important and dear our common forests to Finns are. In his speech, the Minister pointed out that in practice this would not change things terribly. It would therefore be good, in order to dispel these concerns, to ensure that no changes are made, that these rights of the Sámi are clearly enshrined in the law, and that this is a fully state-owned company that respects the principle of publicity, so that Parliament still has the opportunity to influence it, and then that we do not now transfer to the business sector areas which have no commercial significance, such as public waters, no hiking grounds or these natural economic areas, because these are the great concerns that the citizens have had: that if they are transferred there, then they will be cashed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u333	Madam President! I do not know if there is political Jesus, but of course this has been here many times. Old man's government used to drive this, it didn't go to the finish line. Last season, this was driven by a minister from the People's Republic, but the Finns of Finland and the Centre, together with the government, the Democrats and the Left Alliance, were able to reject this. Now that it is clear that this is a weaker proposal than the last one, what a miracle it is that we want to risk national property by opening the kitchen door to the fact that, in the future governments, if this is incorporated, there is a chance that this national property will run away from our hands, as was the case with Digitalle or Yara, which I am sure the Central Party will have a particularly unfortunate memory of the fact that the fertilizers went and the farmers paid for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u334	Madam President! This bill has now developed in a good direction in the consultation, thank you to the Minister for that. But of course it still contains a number of elements which must then be looked through in committee. When we have a good and comprehensive committee reading, I believe that we will find a solution which, in due course, Parliament too will do well to agree with. Unfortunately, there has also been a lot of direct propaganda and misunderstandings in this legislative process, which have now been raised by a number of representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u337	Madam President! This is not about propaganda, Mr Kärnä, but about genuine concerns that we all have here. And I fully agree that this should now be dealt with properly, and I do not understand at all this rapid timetable and haste, because I do not believe that such a great deal should be done in such a hurry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u340	Madam President! The Metsähallitus Act affects one third of the water and land areas of our country,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u345	Mr President! I personally understand that this bill should be taken forward, among other things, on the basis of what has already been said here by Mrs Maijala and Mrs Kärna. But two questions. First of all, this management system, which is one big question. In that presentation, the Minister said, broadly speaking, that efforts have been made to clarify the management system as much as possible. Is the situation now that, in a way, the risks of this dualism in this management have been eliminated? Is it clear that Metsähallitus is now able to speak with one voice? And then into this ownership. Is it clear now that Metsätalous Share Company will be 100% owned by Metsähallitus? And above all, is it clear that the company cannot be privatised under any circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u346	Mr President! As Mr Ojala-Niemelä has pointed out here, indeed, in the interview with Yle in March 2014, you, Minister Tiilikainen, commented that Metsähallitus should be maintained as a whole and the best for national property would be if the government were to abandon the reform altogether when this was prepared during the previous term of government. I also ask: how has the mind changed in this time? This bill now before us is, in many ways, even weaker than the one before. Since reference has been made to these EU regulations, the SDP has presented alternatives over the last period to ensure that Metsähallitus’s competitive neutrality can be guaranteed in legal terms without this incorporation, and yet this is what is going on. Why do we do this when it is possible to deal with this in another way?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u347	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister, you spoke beautifully about Finnish forests. Finnish forests should therefore be spoken of beautifully, and Finnish national forestry policy must be adhered to. We're one of the best experts in the Boreal Forest Zone. To Mr Ojala-Niemelä, I would like to say that this is not the same proposal as last year. The Government Programme provides for clarification of Metsähallitus' steering system. So I repeat this same question, which has been said here by Mrs Viljanen and Mrs Korhonen: will Metsähallitus speak with one voice after this reform? Are we going to have a more complex structure instead of what is being sought in the Government Programme? Mr Myllykoski then expressed concern about the possible decisions of future governments. Well, in principle, if this government were not driving this, then the future government could also make the same decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u348	Mr President! I wonder what Mrs Majala said about her fear of the Polish workforce coming to Finland. Metsähallitus has already, if we leave the stump to the factory, outsourced the logging work, outsourcing the nearby transport, outsourcing the long-distance transport, outsourcing the land, partly refurbishment and seedling management. They are already competitive, and if a Polish company comes to Finland and fulfils its obligations, it can come to your former municipality of residence where they were already coming, but fortunately their backgrounds did not hold up and they were forced to withdraw from the competition. Whether the current Metsähallitus or the forestry company does not change this arrangement. I wonder if the representative is not. Maijala has studied this matter like that. Then, if you think about it, what is the EU obligation to prohibit the sale of state property, that forest property, if we are talking about timber, whether it is a form of company or another organisation? What's going to change in that chain?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u349	Mr President! With regard to this situation for Finns, I would say that Jari Lindström, the chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group, also took a position on this last season and said that the group did not support the idea of creating a limited liability company. According to Lindström, company participation could have negative effects on employment. I wonder, though, where this position has now gone. There is absolutely no documented requirement for the EU to be incorporated. The business model has been functional. It can be declared bankrupt, as has been done for example in universities. Similarly, tax neutrality can be achieved by a change of two or three articles, it is not difficult. This was clarified several times in the last period. Similarly, the company model is much more problematic. It must make a profit, it is no longer under the direction of the parliament or under the direction of the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u352	Madam President! Indeed, I see some small possibilities in this company of Metsähallitus, but I also see such bogeymen as I would not like to see. Firstly, when ownership is decentralized or by this means put inside the same house, I refer, for example, to the development of Enso-Gutzeit-Stora Enso, where Tornator owns the land and Stora Enso does business. These two companies originally operate under the same roof, but now they are like night and day on different sides, nothing to do with each other. So it has become a brutal business, which of course is part of normal business. But we need to find out properly that this is not just an accident, that something negative is happening here to the common property of the state, which belongs to the Finns. I understand Markus Mustajärvi's concern very well, and I do not blame him in any way. The second point that has already been raised in many speeches is that there should be one manager in the house. Such a procedure that there may be a situation within the house in the near future, that Metsähallitus is fighting Metsähallitus in court —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u353	Mr President! This is about our national property. When you consider how it works, how much it has employed people in those sparsely populated areas, and think about setting up this company when moving into company law, the company pays its taxes in the municipality where the head office is. In my opinion, it is currently in Vantaa so that these incomes are gradually transferred to Southern Finland, from there. Then, if you think about the limited liability company business, it requires that you make a profit in a way. Throughout the ages this system has been seen that when we went into the company model, then the jobs and the activities that help society and the people of the region have disappeared. It only makes the external players competitive as much as possible in order to make a profit and take care of these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u354	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister: now that some 6.2 million cubic metres of wood are being cut from the land of Metsähallitus per year and the annual growth is more than 11 million cubic metres, now if this goes into the form of a company, will it be run as a company, will it be viewed as a whole and let us go to see that the state's assets are on a productive basis in their entirety? And there's another thing I'd like to ask you. There's a Natural Resources Center and everything that pushes in. Natura sites and their protected areas, in practice those protected areas will be protected: will they only become bushes that will never become economic forests? Has this been watched there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u355	There will be two replies at this stage, then a five-minute reply to the Minister, and then the debate will continue. These two persons are representative of Hassi and representative of Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u356	Mr President! The changes required by EU competition law are a very small part of what is included in the government proposal. The EU has certainly not required that the rights of the Sámi be removed from the bill by the articles required by current international agreements and also by other domestic legislation. The EU has nothing to do with the fact that the government proposes a strange third balance sheet item between nature services and the business sector, which obscures the administration, weakens the power of Parliament and also weakens the ability to monitor that the funds allocated by Parliament in the budget are used for the purpose for which they are intended.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u357	Madam President! I'm in the middle of this conversation, so I guess I've missed a lot. — I agree with what Mr Hassi has just said about the rights of the Sami people. I would like to ask why these articles have now been omitted. After all, the Minister of Justice has suggested that they should be referred back to this proposal, and then I understand that today the UN has also stated on this issue that these Sami rights should be included. I would ask the Minister, although this may have been asked earlier: why have these been omitted from the draft?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u358	Minister Tiilikainen, up to five minutes. After that, the debatt will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u359	Thank you, Mr President. All right, let's get all the papers out of here at the same time. — This first and succinct question, which came out of the mouth of a few representatives, including Mr Ojala-Niemela and Mr Marin, that well, what changed the mind: the very fact that I still want Metsähallitus to be preserved as a whole. This arrangement has the certainty that Metsähallitus will remain a single entity. Metsähallitus' business now comes under the management of a 100% owned subsidiary of Metsähallitus, and in that way this Metsähallitus entity can be maintained in the future. Then Mr Ojala-Niemelä rightly suggested that there would be alternatives to this, that a few articles would only have to be amended and that bankruptcy and so on and so forth would have been achieved. If it were so easy, why on earth did you not get it done in the last four years, if it was so easy? This is now a case prepared by five governments: Vanhanen, Kiviniemi, Katainen, Stubb, Sipilä. Do you think it's time we got a solution? — — — — I guess, listen, my friends, even during the time of Stubb's government, it was going on there at the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. Well, here is the proposal, and here there are a lot of questions raised, such as this firewall, which Mr Hassi took, that is, is there now a certainty that the funding of nature services with budget money and then this business is not going to go awry through any balance sheet system or any other. It is necessary for this firewall to be maintained, and that is why, among other things, this accounting practice is being harmonised and we want to ensure that the same accounting principles are applied on both sides, and that the integrity of the firewall is ensured. Then there is the concern about these municipal tax revenues. As far as I understand this preparation, this arrangement does not in itself affect how much tax revenue municipalities receive, but of course it will affect tax revenue. This is one of those things that I am sure is worth considering carefully in this Parliament, but in any case, the employees of this new Metsähallitus' daughter-in-law's company in the localities will then pay the corporate taxes where the work is done. So there's nothing to take from here to Vantaa now. And who knows what it is that Metsätalous Oy is based in? Is it decided somewhere? If it was Rovaniemi or something. Well, let's take a look at this balance sheet split. Here a little thought was given and wondered why there is such a triangulation. In fact, I think that the threefold that has been planned for this balance sheet is quite descriptive. We have basic capital in Metsähallitus, which has a requirement for income, and the financial result is drawn from it, which is what Parliament decides and imposes its obligation. Then we will have clear areas where there will be a capping of nature conservation, then that biodiversity will be taken care of, and then that will be the other capital. And then there is capital, which is not subject to a profit requirement, but there is no such limit on nature conservation either. So this is the kind of triangulation in that balance sheet policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u364	Apparently, there's still a desire to go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u365	Mr President! I appreciate that Mr Tiilikainen has been sitting here for several hours and taking an active part in the debate, and I am glad that he has made it to this presentation of the Metsähallitus Act. But there are still relevant questions to be answered. What binds the hands of future parliaments, or even the future parliament, with regard to ownership or balance sheet transfers? Nothing at all. In both respects, only one decision by Parliament is sufficient. Then this concession is not in itself a problem-free one, and I will renew the question when I have not understood it, even though I have been thinking about it since the Destia decision, that what drives this imperative. What will change with regard to competition factors, competitiveness neutrality? Whether it is a model close to the present one or a forestry company, it is a question of putting state forest property on the market, and the Metsähallitus, as I said, has no machinery, so the arrangement with the Destia decision is quite different. Destia competed with her own machines on the private market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u366	Mr President! Thank you for hearing about Lapland. After all, this law is still not perfect, but fortunately we still have the opportunity and time in the spring to make certain corrections and adjustments to make this as good as possible. At the moment, this employment was introduced into the law and this was achieved by talking about cooperation with tourism and cooperation with local actors. But to these universal service obligations, I would also like to see these matters of the use of forest roads carried out, because just this autumn there has been an obligation for private forest owners to pay 15 cents per kilometre for the use of state forest roads. This means that in Savukoski, for example, in the worst case, a fee of EUR 6 per interest has been made for moving wood from its own forest through the state roads. So the zero limit has been moving from private forests all along. Mr President! Is it possible that this text of the law should include, for example, other rural activities such as:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u367	Madam President! These social obligations are important for Lapland. Indeed, we have a lot of loggers at work and the age structure is 55 to 65 years, so that it is difficult to work if you leave. But what is the problem here is that only by including these social obligations directly in the company law can it be ensured that they will also be implemented in the way that Parliament intends. If these are now left to a concession controlled by officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry alone, the monitoring of their implementation will be based solely on compliance with the natural resource plan and not on continuous local coordination directed through ownership management. That is the problem — I would also like to say this to Mrs Maijala. Metsähallitus has done a good job in reconciling these various interests, such as forestry, mines, tourism, Sámi and reindeer husbandry, but now that Parliament has been raising these performance targets all the time, the production machinery is being taken out of the way. I come myself from Muonio, where we have had these forest disputes, and now that all the time these nature reserves are being added to the regional plans and others,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u368	Madam President! I am still asking about these hidden protected areas, which are around Natura sites and them, that some Natural Resources Centre — it gets the money from some agency — does not mix porridges and grits there. And to the previous question: However, Metsähallitus is a large producer of wood. That this should remain under the leadership of what belongs to it and not confuse the natural resource centers and all the areas that belong to forest management.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u369	Mr President! As we now hear in this Chamber, this still raises a great deal of questions. I must say that there have been such changes in this preparation that they have not dispelled these concerns and fears. That is why it is so great that we are talking about this tonight and that the Minister is here. I would therefore like to ask how the Minister will ensure that this goes ahead in committee, that these consultations are sufficiently extensive and that this law will then be prepared as openly as possible in the future. The fact that the law was brought into this hall last week at 4 a.m. raised even more doubts. After we wanted this to be postponed to the time when the minister was present, the government parties still voted against it. Fortunately, someone somewhere came to their senses and we can discuss it now in the presence of the minister, but such maneuvers do add to the doubt. I hope that we can now make this preparations transparently and transparently.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u370	Madam Speaker! The Minister is, of course, right that Parliament should decide on this law. Of course, that's the way it is. However, I will once again ask the minister's own opinion, or the ministry or government, on these rights of the Sami people. Would it not have been a good thing to include the articles in the previous draft now in your proposal? What do you think of these articles in the previous draft?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u371	Madam President! I understand this comment made by Mr Mustajärvi and I too think it is extremely important that national property should remain in national hands, as it does in this draft law. And I do not quite understand the argument that it is said 'what binds the next Parliament'. What is it that binds this Parliament now? All kinds of changes are possible, which is why these laws are being passed here. This propaganda, which has been put forward in connection with the drafting of the law, has already emerged in the previous round. I'm afraid that's the case. For example, the Democratic Journal has spread very strongly the claims that national property is now being incorporated, that there is a risk of moving into foreign hands, that groundwater is being sold to Nestlé and where. It is a great pity that this debate is immediately taken to this level and that we are not working together to build a good and workable proposal on this Metsähallitus law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u372	Mr President! I too repeat that this is not propaganda, and if you think of this as propaganda, I find it very unpleasant. There are genuine concerns now: genuine concerns in this Chamber, genuine concerns in organizations, as I said, and genuine concerns in companies too. The fact that it is our legislators' task, above all, to take these concerns seriously and to do good, justifiable work and preparatory work, above all, has been lacking. I hope that from now on at least these policies will be improved. I do not believe that anyone has contacted us and told us how concerned they are about this bill, but they are genuine concerns which we should take seriously here as representatives and decision-makers, above all. So I hope you can get rid of this propaganda thinking. That does not bring this issue forward at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u373	Mr President! There have been many concerns in the debate about this Metsähallitus law, and it must of course be acknowledged that, in part, these concerns are justifiable, and it is certainly good to deal with them thoroughly in committee. I would also like to ask the Minister that, having expressed such fears that now that forestry is incorporated, it would somehow open the gate, that state property could be more easily abandoned or transferred to a private operator, so I think it would be important for us to hear here: are these fears justified? Of course, I have a certain understanding of it. It is clear that this incorporation is, of course, right to question whether it is necessary, but it must also be recognised that this entry into the procurement law does bring a whole new dimension to this consideration, and that too must be understood. Personally, I am not ideologically opposed to this form of incorporation, but rather pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u374	Mr President! In my debate earlier, I referred to the fact that we may soon be receiving new information from the European Commission, and we received today the answer from Margrethe Vestager on behalf of the Commission to the question whether EU legislation or previous decisions taken by the European Commission will force the Finnish Metsähallitus organisation to become a company. It will be answered if it is summed up that 'the State aid rules generally apply to undertakings, i.e. public or private entities, irrespective of their form of company and organisational structure which provide services or goods on a given market'. The nature of Metsähallitus' activities is then stated: "This means that the state has the right to provide these services through Metsähallitus, but it must not apply preferential treatment to Metsähallitus or other bodies or favour any entity. The purpose of these rules is to avoid distortions of competition in forest management markets, such as logging. Union law does not require those bodies to have a specific form of company or organisational structure." The Commission’s reply of this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u375	Mr President! I would like to say once again that EU competition law does not in any way require the strange thing contained in the Metsähallitus bill, the establishment of a third wheel between nature services and business, the third leg, which is not officially either. This only confuses the administration, although the general aim has been said to be to make it clearer, and it also makes money control more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u376	Madam President! Here, in previous speeches, criticisms were directed against the Finns of Peru and what Jari Lindström said last season. Well, I do not know exactly what he has said, but as the Minister has said here and as has been said in several speeches, this is not the same bill. As far as I know, we are now in the referral debate, and now we are raising the concerns of the Minister and the committee that can be raised. I myself understand that there has been some discussion in our group in this governance structure about the need to know where this is going. And indeed, I would still like to see a reply to this very issue of groundwater, on which I have received some feedback. I personally understand that this could not be the case, but it would be nice for this to come at the Minister's mouth. Then I have to say, when the question was asked, how can we prevent the next Parliament from doing something? Just as Kärnä said here: we cannot give the law here, that the next Parliament must not make laws, that is not the law we can give.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u377	Madam President! As said above by Markus Mustajärvi, now we can begin to look at the record of the Government Programme whether this is really appropriate, since there is no such EU entry, which would require the incorporation of Metsähallitus. Here we are at the point where I really hope that the Minister will take this view into account and that the government can take a calm breath to look at the progress of this matter, because now the pilot has taken possession of this ship, and I hope that the pilot is Minister Tiilikainen, who can lead this back to the open sea, so that we will not be able to bring it back to the port in such a way that the hearings of the committee — and I know that Mrs Leppä is the chairman of the committee — will certainly be extensive. That is what I really believe and trust if this happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u378	Mr President! Very many convincing speeches have been made here about what the EU is asking of us. For example, it is very important that Mr Ojala-Niemela's proposal is carefully explained in committee. I will return to the rights of the Sámi, because if we had ratified the ILO Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples 169, such a change as has now been made in this draft would not have been possible. The draft law is moving the land of the Sámi home region under a commercial establishment and into revenue balances, which means that reindeer pastures could be sold, rented or used in a manner harmful to reindeer husbandry, for example for logging forests or gravel extraction, if the law does not include a ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture. Mr President! I would appeal to the previous articles in the draft law to be added. It is a very strong message from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u379	Mr President! It's not quite as simple as that. Of course we want, including the Lapps and the people of Lapland, to have this country's multi-use, to have traditional reindeer husbandry, then tourism, other livelihoods and so on. These must also be coordinated on the land of Metsähallitus. This is not the solution to this ban on undermining the culture of the Sami people; this can be done anyway. I believe that this is a broader issue, which means that the interests of tourism in the various regions must also be taken into account. There is good experience of this, for example, from Muonio, of which Mr Ojala-Niemelä has just spoken, where Metsähallitus went to agree with locals and tourists on which areas are left unscathed because they have great interests in tourism. Perhaps this is also a question which should now be considered in the committee's deliberations as to whether it can be brought more strongly to the staff of this Metsätalous Oy as a delegating clause so that they have the right there to reconcile these different forms of land use.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u380	There are still requests to speak from the representatives of Maijala, Kärnä, Ojala-Niemelä, Karimäki, Semi. Let's take the five and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u381	Mr President! The Sámi issues have come up very much today. After the last parliamentary term, you all know that: In Lapland, the situation is very controversial because of a few basic issues, who is entitled to the Sámi election list and who is not. Let's deal with who's the real Sámi and who's the Sámi. As long as this matter is not in order and in order in Lapland, I think it is pointless for this matter to be resolved anywhere else. It is now important that we in Lapland build peace and consensus on these matters, and then we can start doing these other things. This conflict is certainly not in anyone's interest. At least I will do everything in my power to bring peace to these matters in Lapland and then, with a common understanding, to bring forward the promotion of our Sami affairs here in all the laws. Thank you for speaking on behalf of the Saami. I am sure we all want to do our best for the Sámi, as long as we can settle these few disputes there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u382	Madam President! Ms Maijala and The salmon did make excellent speeches here, and it is, of course, extremely important that the Sámi culture be protected there in the north, as this bill does. There is nothing here to wipe out that belongs to the Saami at the moment. The representative Karimäki here presented perhaps a narrow understanding of the Sámi culture. In some way, you raised the issue so that the Sámi culture could be drawn into equal treatment for reindeer husbandry. Of course, this is not the case. The Sami people are engaged in the most diverse industries and, as Mr Salmon said, it is extremely important that we safeguard the conditions for all the northern industries. It is also slightly problematic that, for example, some 65% of the voters of the Sámi people, I think, live outside the Sámi region, and I believe that it is not only justified to give such a party rights and that negotiating mandate through Metsähallitus, but to negotiate together in those municipal councils.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u383	Madam President! To Mrs Merelle, I would say that this is the same proposal, the issue of the limited liability company for forestry activities, and this is the bone and the steak in this proposal. Then there is some semantics, what are these other accompanying regulations here. The fact that the model of limited liability companies is coming to restrict parliamentary control makes it very difficult for me to do so. And when Mr Tiilikainen asked why the few paragraphs have not been changed, it was clear that the SDP had a clear distinction, an ideological difference, with the majority. But what I wonder is how the center started this journey. For example, Mr Salmon said last season that he considered Metsähallitus reform to be a project for the Greens and the Coalition Party. "It appears that there is a policy trade between the Assembly and the Greens in which The use of speech on land becomes more complex. And in terms of business, the use of tourism, energy, ore exploration and other business activities will be significantly hampered." What has changed here, Mr Salmon, in relation to this performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u384	Madam President! Representative to Kärnä: reindeer husbandry is part of the Sámi culture, as well as, of course, the language and many other important traditions. I would like to read the law in the previous draft on the ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture, and I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: why should this article not now be included in the law? "The plans and projects of the National Government of the Sámi region and ofthe Sámi region
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u385	Madam President! I would like to return to this incorporation and its impact on tax revenues. Currently, the impact of corporate tax on municipalities' tax revenues and returns has not been explained in this legislative amendment, as Metsähallitus currently pays municipal corporation tax on the basis of the municipal forest item and the wood sales and protected areas affecting it. And then, if incorporated, how can these losing municipalities be compensated for these losses of tax revenue?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u386	Mr. Salmon, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u387	Mr President! To Mr Ojala-Niemelä, I would like to say that this basic solution, of course, is the same as in the last period when forestry is incorporated. When you quoted the previous season’s speech, in which I said what it looked like then, it certainly looked like that as I had said. Now, however, this government proposal, which has been brought here, has left the previous model to be modified, and I believe that the changes have gone in a good direction, with efforts to clarify the management system, to highlight social obligations and local speaking powers. In all respects, this is still not the best possible situation, but it is also possible for Parliament to have an influence in committee on the fact that if there is a need, as I think there is some need to regulate it, it can be done. But this has been changed since the previous season. This is not exactly the same in terms of content or justification, and it must also be remembered that the situation has changed here, as the Minister has explained, with the entry into force of this procurement law, so that certain reassessments have also been carried out here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u388	Then Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u389	Thank you, Madam President. It is good to see more than one speaker this evening. I don't think there's any more reserves on that side. — But that’s all right, because it’s a great pleasure to have this referral with Parliament. For my part, I regret that that climate agreement in Paris took so long that I had no chance of being here at the time. As Minister, I want to bring the proposal to Parliament and make sure that Parliament, as a legislative body, has sufficient time to deal with such a large and many interesting legislative package in depth. That is why it would have been good, of course, for the committees to have been able to start the consultation already in the autumn, but good, let us do this. A good and varied referral debate may have been held, and this has certainly been in order. There is no doubt that the Chairmen of the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will ensure that this matter is thoroughly and extensively heard and dealt with. These ideologies have been discussed here: who has ideologies? I think there is only one sustainable ideology here, and that is the ideology of sustainable development. After all, Metsähallitus is a model organisation that has been producing ecological benefits, social benefits and economic benefits for Finns for a long time. The aim is to maintain this same set of sustainable development, but to modify this structure in such a way that there is no risk that it will escape legislative changes. This response from Mr Mustajärvi from the Commission: Certainly, since that 2007 decision, many different options have been examined by the ministers and officials responsible for the various preparations. This is now the best solution that I myself have come to in this time available, and I hope that Parliament will now go through this thoroughly. If there are better ones, that is the wonderful duty of Parliament to make those corrections. Representative Ojala-Niemelä was at the heart of a few comments. So what is the central thing now that this is as acceptable, safe and such a confidence-building law in the minds of the northern people? Yes, it is just this reconciliation of local interests that it will be ensured here during the parliamentary procedure. Since these consultations, I have made a considerable effort to confirm this in the explanatory statement, in part in the articles of the law, and I believe that Parliament will give this a great deal of attention. The second is precisely this obligation to manage employment. Where all the laws refer to it, the Parliament will make it clear that employment management is also one of the central responsibilities and tasks of Metsähallitus in the future. Well, then I'll take care that now that you're incorporated, how's the property of the state? Let us reiterate: State land and water assets will continue to be directly owned by the State. In other words, groundwater and surface waters and all other areas — the state and ultimately the parliament decide on their ownership. Then this incorporation means that the company is entitled to access and the company cannot transfer the right of access to a third party. Now that I have been listening to this debate for years, it seems a little difficult to believe that there would be such a parliament in Finland that would think of this Metsähallitus entity in a very different way for some reason. I believe that, despite the small differences in power ratios in this Parliament, maintaining the spirit and the whole of this sustainable development is the kind of thing that unites us Finns. I wish Parliament a careful and thorough examination of this. I have done everything in my power to get this bill into the hands of Parliament in time for that hearing to take place. I believe that Parliament will do its own work here. I will return to this question of the Saami. As many representatives of the North have opened up that debate, it is not quite a simple matter. The so-called Sámi clauses in its earlier draft also received a great deal of criticism during the consultation rounds. Once again: this is where the current legislation will remain, and through these municipal councils the position of the Sámi will be even slightly strengthened. I would very much like to turn this bill over to the wise and well-considered reading of the Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u390	Now we have to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u391	Mr President! Now we are discussing perhaps the largest proposal on nature policy, the management of state countries and forests in this parliamentary term, or the draft law on the reorganisation of Metsähallitus. In this bill, Metsähallitus is formed a special state-owned company where public administrative functions are separated from its own unit and whose market-based business is placed in subsidiaries. The Act proposes to change Metsähallitus' management system and to establish a separate law for the State Forestry Share Company, which will be responsible for future forestry activities in the state's land. The Metsähallitus Act was already in a referral debate last week in Parliament's plenary session, but since the minister concerned was not present at the time, the matter was left on the table. It is a good thing that it has now been possible and can be dealt with in such a way that the Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, has been in the Chamber to present the law and answer questions from Members of Parliament. I would like to thank the Minister for having spent several hours with us in this Chamber to answer these questions, both on this matter and then on budgetary matters. I would also like to thank the Council of Presidents for bringing this matter before today so that the Minister could be present in this debate. This is because the proposal's journey to Parliament has been complicated and the preparatory steps have provoked justified criticism. After all, this whole piece of legislation is extensive and, in part, very complex. The whole process of restructuring Metsähallitus has been a multi-stage process for a long time. The preparation of legislation on this issue, which has been re-launched during this term of government, has been extremely urgent. It was precisely on urgent grounds that we tried to prepare the matter at first without a proper consultation, but when this raised the criticism of citizens and non-governmental organisations, among other things, understandably, a narrow round of consultations was finally held. The Social Democrats have opposed the association of Metsähallitus' forestry activities for a number of reasons. Firstly, we have seen that the multiple use of state forests would be jeopardised and land use management would be more difficult. We also believe that the multi-faceted role of state forests is important as part of our national wealth. Metsähallitus must be maintained as a whole. We believe that nature services and everyman's and everyman's rights must be developed and safeguarded in the future. Deciding on matters concerning forest policy and Metsähallitus must be kept in national hands in such a way that the role of Parliament in decision-making is safeguarded. This is not guaranteed by the reform. Despite the arguments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the need for change does not come from the claims of the EU Commission. It has been argued, among other things, that distortive structures, such as bankruptcy protection and tax advantages, would require consolidation. However, this is not the case. During the last period, the SDP presented options to ensure that Metsähallitus' competitive neutrality could be ensured in a legal way without the incorporation of the company. Stakeholders have also wondered why not only legal changes are being made to ensure the neutrality of competition, but major and unnecessary changes are being made, the effects of which are not precisely known. The threat is that the reform now planned will lead to new changes that will gradually fade away the ownership and political control of forest land and water bodies from the state. Finnish national property, state land and water, is a supposedly interesting destination for foreign investors. In the worst case scenario, directing state property outside democratic decision-making will also allow land and water ownership to be targeted for speculative investment. This is not the way we should go. Marja-Liisa Hintsanen, Deputy Director of Metsähallitus Nature Services, wrote in Helsingin Sanomat 15. "The Forest Government Act raises questions about the implementation of the Constitution, Parliament's decision on the use of state budget resources and the control of ministries on issues of interest to citizens, such as hunting, fishing, tourism and hiking in state countries, i.e. one third of Finland. For this reason, sufficient weight and time should be given to the processing of draft laws. What is important is that the draft law is discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs." The Social Democrats also believe that it is important to send the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion and an evaluation, and it is good that this is now happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u392	Madam President! The Metsähallitus Act has been in place for a long time and a long time. The bill has progressed to the parliament with a lot of criticism. The law is now being amended, which is of great importance for the use and management of Finnish national property, state forests, land and water. Both the content of the law and the preparation process have raised many questions and criticisms. I am pleased that the Minister: The Tiilikainen came personally to present this contradictory law to Parliament. On the other hand, I find it strange that the co-representatives had to insist on this during the hours of the morning. It is clear that in order to deal with a complex and many questions, we need a minister to answer many open questions. The need to change the law has arisen from the requirements of EU legislation to make Metsähallitus' market operations competitively neutral. This is done through the incorporation of forestry activities on state land into a limited liability company and the exclusive right of a limited company to engage in forestry activities in government forests. Contrary to what has been claimed, the EU does not call for incorporation. This was confirmed here today by the message from Mr Mustajärvi. There are also other options to implement the neutrality of competition. Furthermore, there is a suspicion that the incorporation of companies does not guarantee the neutrality of competition in line with the EU pillars. The SDP opposed last season and continues to oppose the incorporation of Metsähallitus' forestry activities. In the bill, Metsähallitus' management system is broken down so that questions have also been raised about the constitutionality of the proposal. Metsähallitus is a combination of public administration tasks and market-based activities, characterised by compliance with the social obligations laid down by law and the multiple use of state forests. The same regions therefore combine the interests of a number of different user groups. I myself attended a hearing in Rovaniemi. For example, Härmälä pointed out that the day will be seen when Metsähallitus v Metsähallitus is in court. Is this what we're hoping for? The general social obligations imposed on Metsähallitus should also be made applicable to the Forestry Share Company at the legal level. It is also unclear whether EU competition law accepts the now-set model as a competitively neutral way of organising forestry activities on state land or whether this law will soon be followed by a requirement to compete for concessions. There have been legitimate concerns in Lapland. Metsähallitus is a major employer, and the reconciliation of land use in areas used by entrepreneurs, tourists, Sámi, hikers, reindeer and mining companies requires skill and understanding. There is great concern in Lapland that the well-functioning communication between Metsähallitus and users of other regions will weaken with this proposal. The whole reform of Metsähallitus is complex. The law has been in place for a long time, and the preparation of the law has not been as transparent as it would have wished in such a big matter. When Finnish national property, state land, waters and forests are being transferred under the corporate group, it results, among other things, in the weakening of parliamentary control, overlapping administration, the abolition of the principle of public access to documents for public authorities and the extension of market economy thinking to Metsähallitus. In principle, I consider it problematic if the management rights of state waters or countries are transferred to the management of a business establishment out of the direct control of the Ministry and Parliament. Justifiable concern is also what happens next. Does the arrangement open the doors for international companies to operate in the land and water areas of the state? It is clear, at least, that Finland's rich natural resources, forests and clean water will certainly attract interest abroad. I therefore hope that reason will prevail in the government on this issue and that other options other than the joint-stocking of forestry activities will still be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u393	Madam President! This Metsähallitus law causes a great deal of emotion. There are many reasons for this: Metsähallitus has a very significant economic and economic impact on the wood sector or, for example, on tourism. This is influenced by environmental and nature conservation reasons, hunting and recreation. Overall, the significance varies from region to region. As we all know, the role of Metsähallitus in the north is, of course, considerably more important with large forest ownership than in the south. The role of Metsähallitus from the perspective of central government finances has also been emphasised, the increased income claims are reflected in younger forest fellings, but also in regionally, for example, as excessively high road user charges. There has also been considerable confusion as to whether there is really a need for the type of incorporation and change proposed. I personally understand that these changes are necessary. It is now good that this content and the need for changes can be dealt with here in Parliament, and the continuation and adoption of this law is, as it were, up to this house itself. A few comments: I myself believe that the draft law is not yet clear from the point of view of leadership. There is a clear record in the Government Programme that the management system must be clear. There are now many questions to be asked about this clarity. Forestry, Nature Services and game management operate separately, and the Director General is not responsible for everything to the Board of Directors. In other words, I fear that the management system of the proposal will lead to a confusing and even inefficient management system, precisely because of its two-headedness. I would say that the national economy must have the right to speak with one voice about its countries. Now I estimate that the proposal will create conflicts within Metsähallitus, and there have already been clear examples of this in the consultation. It seems that the department of public administration will actually be a separate, independent agency and also a separation from the powers of the Metsähallitus Board of Directors and the Managing Director. In other words, clearly this management system needs to be clarified. Ownership must operate through the government. Similarly, it is important that the State’s land and water assets are considered as a single entity directly owned by the State. The Minister has already assured us that this will happen. And, of course, it is important that reforms should not weaken the conditions for hunting and fishing. The draft law still leaves open other questions, including whether the competitive neutrality is sufficiently achieved in such a way as to eliminate the competitive advantage to other operators. Bankruptcy protection will be abolished, but it is clear that capital must not be in unlimited use, i.e. the capitalisation of Metsähallitus' subsidiaries must not hinder competition. Further questions: Are social obligations sufficiently enshrined in the law? How will the new role of autonomous regions be taken into account? How will the reform ensure that the regions are able to exert influence? And there is also the fact that reorganization must not jeopardise the tax revenues of municipalities. It is clear that the Forestry Company must be 100% owned by Metsähallitus, but it is worth clarifying that the company cannot be privatised under any circumstances. One question is also: should not the terms of the right of use be laid down by law and not by concession agreement for Metsätalous Oy? It is also important that the steering powers of the Parliament and the Government concerning Metsähallitus are maintained. I understand in that way that, in this new situation, it is precisely in terms of transparency and credibility that this governance of society will be emphasised, and that is something that needs to be taken care of. Mr President! There is still quite a lot to be done in this law, and this is the work that Parliament needs to devote itself to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u394	Madam President! A week ago, the Government was supposed to bring the Metsähallitus Act, which raised great concern in Parliament during the night, without Minister Tiilikainen's presentation and presence. Thanks to the Council of Presidents, we have the matter on the table and we are now dealing with the law on the presentation of the Minister. The joint land and water assets of Finns are managed by Metsähallitus. The original aim of the law project was to enter forestry, but it seriously weakens the position of nature services that cherish Finland’s nature, subjecting it to the objectives of its commercial benefits. Nature services are almost an independent operator. It takes care of national parks, develops nature tourism and fosters nature conservation. Nature Centre Haltia in Espoo, next to Nuuksio National Park, is one of the most international attractions in Finland. Nature services also work actively with many nature and hiking entrepreneurs. In the Government's proposal, land and even national parks are transferred from the balance sheet of public administrative tasks. The bill weakens the position of the Ministry of the Environment and narrows the decision-making power of the Parliament. There are a number of problematic points in the presentation. The Metsähallitus Act raises questions about the implementation of the Constitution, the decision-making power of the Parliament, the use of state budget resources and the steering power of the Ministry for hunting, fishing, tourism and hiking in the state's countries, i.e. one third of Finland's surface area. It is our national property: precious forests, swamps and waters. Are natural values subject to business objectives? The Sámi organisations are sending out an emergency message for the preservation of the Sámi culture, the Sámi economy. The Sámi rights to trade, such as reindeer husbandry, have been removed from the bill. If the Convention on Human Rights of Indigenous Peoples 169 had already been ratified, this could not be done. The government must continue to ratify the ILO agreement without delay, find a compromise on the Sámi dispute. I would urge you, for example, during the last term in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to look at the compromise that the Greens are in favour of and to set up a negotiating table with all those involved. The reform of the Metsähallitus Act has a particular impact on the settlement of the Sámi area, which feeds reindeer on natural pastures all year round. Most of the grazing areas in the Sámi area are owned by the State, i.e. managed by Metsähallitus. Adequate and untouched pasture areas are a condition for reindeer husbandry. Sámi palliskunta opposes the passing of the Metsähallitus Act without a ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture, which was dropped out of the draft law. The draft law is moving the land of the Sámi home region under a commercial establishment and into revenue balances, which means that reindeer pastures could be sold or rented or used in a manner harmful to reindeer husbandry, for example for logging forests or gravel extraction, if the law does not include a ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture. Today Finland received reprimands from the UN on the draft Metsähallitus Act that the rights of the Sami people have been removed. Mr President! Briefly, things that require a change in parliamentary procedure: The public limited liability company to be established must be obliged to comply with the legislation on publicity in order to ensure that citizens and Parliament are kept informed of the decision-making process regarding our common property. It must be ensured that the establishment of a limited liability company continues to be owned by the State and cannot be privatised. In order to reduce conflicts in the use of state land, the balance sheet of public administrative tasks should include those areas of the state which play a minor role in forestry, such as hiking, water and natural economy. The participatory system of natural resource planning should be enshrined in the law in order to ensure that residents and non-governmental organisations can participate in land use planning. There are shortcomings in the current system of natural resource planning in this respect, but the draft law has even deleted the record of conservation of existing natural resource planning. Mr President! The Metsähallitus Act, which weakens Parliament's decision-making power, the status of nature services and nature conservation, must be corrected in parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u395	Madam President! "Forest boy's will, a horde's tree. In the field of Tapiola I wrestle with the bear, and the world shall be forgotten." Finns are a forest people, and it is quite clear that Metsähallitus law speaks to us too. This bill has developed very well in the course of the consultation, but I think it is essential that the committee's deliberations are carried out very carefully. As has already been mentioned in several speeches, it is essential to develop Metsähallitus' management and control system in such a way that Metsähallitus always speaks with one voice. As Director-General Härmälä said, we must work towards it and avoid situations where Metsähallitus versus Metsähallitus is the case, and this is one of the important issues to be considered in committee. There is also much positive in the bill. For example, the return of returns to municipalities is something that enables Metsähallitus to have a social permit in the areas in which it operates. Similarly, it is extremely important that social obligations are now included in this bill. I also welcome the municipal councils set up in the municipalities of the Sámi region, and it is extremely important that, for the first time, the Metsähallitus Act has referred to the tourism industry as one of the industries that must be committed to securing the conditions for its operation. In just the same way, it is important that the conditions for reindeer farming, natural activities and hunting and fishing continue to be safeguarded in the future, and this is what is happening in this draft law. Personally, I do not see that this incorporation in itself would be the worst threat, but it is extremely important to ensure that our national property remains in national hands, and I do welcome the Minister's idea, which I think is in fact what Mr Markus Salmon originally proposed, that this new forestry company should then be located in Rovaniemi. I very much hope that this will happen. There has now been a lot of discussion in this Chamber about the rights of the Sami people, and the debate has been slightly coloured. It is quite clear that the Sámi are not abolishing their linguistic and cultural rights, nor is the Metsähallitus Act abolishing the Sámi lines that are currently included there. This is, of course, important, and now, through these municipal councils, it would be important for us to develop the Akwé: Kon procedure contained in the international biodiversity agreement to safeguard the traditional knowledge and knowledge of local communities and indigenous peoples and the biodiversity of nature in those regions. This bill gives this development every opportunity. Madam President! At the end of my speech, on behalf of Mrs Korhonen and the undersigned: very Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u396	Madam President! The preparation of the Metsähallitus Act has been a great deal to talk about, and we have also discussed it today. As you can see, Finns love their forests and nature, and that is why there has been so much concern about the reform of Metsähallitus law. It was great that we had this referral debate so that the Minister was long in the process of hearing, because the way in which this law was brought here in small hours last week did not inspire confidence. But hopefully we will learn a lesson from this and the final line of lawmaking will go smoothly. Since Metsähallitus manages one third of Finland's surface area, it does not matter how it is done. The great concern is that the present bill jeopardises the democratic control of Metsähallitus' activities. The law should therefore ensure that Parliament has a real opportunity to direct its activities in the future, and the new establishment must continue to be a 100 % state-owned company and a company that respects the principle of publicity. Its administration must be transparent and respect the principles of good governance. In the Government Programme, the aim of this law is to simplify the organisation, but yet this third balance sheet is being created, which does not necessarily do so, but, on the contrary, complicates it. This third balance sheet is intended to transfer general waters, natural economy areas and hiking areas, even if their proper place is in the balance sheet for public administrative tasks, and then to place in this second balance sheet those areas with forestry significance and which are subject to forestry yield requirements. The big question is Article 33 of this bill, which obscures the boundary between Nature Services and Metsähallitus' parent group. This new balance sheet disengages the parent group from nature services makes it possible to exploit these general waters and perhaps later land for commercial purposes, and yet these areas are not intended for commercial purposes, even if they are not directly protected areas. The same applies to accounting. The resources of the Ministry of the Environment intended for parliamentary nature conservation can be transferred as a group transfer for entirely other uses, and Parliament cannot therefore control whether the money goes to what is intended. Already as a group service, nature services pay a great deal to the parent group, and there is a risk that natural resources will be used for inefficient commercial adventures. We know that nature services have done their part very well. It has a very strong nature tourism profile and has been able to combine both nature tourism and nature conservation. You don't want to lose this good brand, and you should also think that if communication comes out of one cell in the future, we might lose this good brand. In addition, the rights of the Sámi have been raised a lot in this debate, just on the subject. It is a major concern because 90 per cent of the grazing forests in the Sámi area are owned by the state and managed by Metsähallitus. And if these are now transferred here to the third balance sheet, the question arises as to whether it can in future mean that reindeer grazing land can be sold, rented or used in a way that is harmful to reindeer farming, such as forest felling or gravel extraction. That is why this ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture, which was included in the previous draft law, has been considered so important. I hope that from now on there will really be a broad consultation in the committees, that different views will be reconciled so that we do not lose the good work Metsähallitus is doing now, and the satisfaction that Finns have with Metsähallitus in such a general way, as the Minister said in his opening speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u397	Madam President! There has now been an excellent referral debate for committee reading on this Metsähallitus law. When some speakers have criticised the fact that a week ago this government proposal was brought here from the morning to the debate on referrals, it has to be said that the government did not bring it here at a certain time, and certainly the Minister's aim was to have it here from the morning, but we had a long debate on day care issues and early education before that, I think that was about 10 hours' debate, and that was only a long debate and that was the moment when this law was passed. I personally think it is very important and good that this was finally transferred here and that the Minister is able to participate in this. I am sure it will also help the committee process, that we received clear messages from the Minister here, and that message was also that when there are certain things in this law that are still to be discussed and that are to be improved, there is also a possibility for it in committee. Then, Mr President, to begin with, I would like to say: When representatives of Karimäki and Mikkonen here have raised the fact that this step of weakening the Sámi culture should be taken because there is a risk that in the Sámi region these land managed by Metsähallitus would be used more and more for forestry or something else that would burden reindeer husbandry, I do not think that these fears are very great because there is, in fact, a huge number of protected areas in that area and, secondly, there are not very many trees that could be used for forestry. Ninety per cent of the entire territory of the municipality has been protected and, in that sense, forestry there is neither economically rational nor very much in the rest of the Sámi region. But I'm sure there are other interests in that area that need to be coordinated. This is one of the issues that is very important in this committee debate: the fact that these different interests in land use can be delegated to the local operators of Metsätalous Oy so that they can deal with these issues in the same way as they have done today. That is why it would be good to include this broad voice in Article 4 of that law. It's not just that. It's not just that. It's not just that. That would clarify the situation considerably, and I hope that this will be taken into account in the committee reading. Another key issue that has spoken and doubted us in Lapland in this law, and which now needs to be looked at and improved, is that we should ensure, during the course of the deliberations of this law, the objective that is enshrined in the Government Programme, that we have a unified management system and clear management in the Metsähallitus organisation, so that we know what is Metsähallitus's line of action, and that it would not be the case — which I find very undesirable — that, when we have different projects, we will have two different positions from the Metsähallitus organisation and, in the worst case, they will be appealed to the administrative court. The ideal situation is that the organisation and management system can be clarified in such a way that Metsähallitus has one director, the Director General, who is responsible for the position of Metsähallitus in applying the legislation in force and coordinating the various interests associated with this land use. This is our aim, though, that these major social projects should not be prolonged by the state authorities complaining about statements made by other state authorities. It must be said of this long process, which has really gone on for years, that we have come to the point where we now have a government proposal here, and one can say that, although this has been a difficult process and many doubts about it, there have been improvements along the way, improvements have been made to the management system, efforts have been made to clarify social obligations and to highlight local speaking powers. However, after extensive consultation, I would like these issues to be seen openly in committee and, where it is still possible to clarify, to be dealt with. It is quite clear that we do not want the countries of the state to run away from our control, which would, among other things, make hunting sights more difficult in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u398	Mr President! I will continue the speech I started last week, which is why I do not bring up all the issues here at all. First of all, I point out that 95 % of the area of Savukoski in my municipality is owned by the state and managed by Metsähallitus. The municipal tax revenue is 20 per cent directly from Metsähallitus. It is the main employer of the municipality in its various forms. So it is a matter of life and death for our municipality how this law and these things move forward. We're not here for nothing. With the Black Lake, you're going to have to deal with this. Now, these tax-paying issues. This change in the form of a limited liability company is making changes to them. These general grounds of the law now state that 'therefore, the change in the law has a very limited economic impact and, in particular, only on the municipalities where the share of the forest item in the corporate tax share is significant'. So this will have a significant impact on our municipality. That is why we will certainly ask and hope that we will get so much clarification and clarification on this issue that the future of the municipality of Savukoski will also be guaranteed. Then there is the second point, which we have so much to discuss in the back, which is these social obligations. It is a good thing that employment and employment were introduced into this legal text and then tourism was introduced into the general arguments. The current situation in working with Metsähallitus is fine, but social pressures, especially now that all business activities and everything else have become more visible, are growing. More and more should be written on the legal level, to which we are truly entitled in these matters. Only the law is binding and binding justice. That's the only thing we can really trust. The next thing we need to get out of these social obligations is the use of Metsähallitus roads. Indeed, we have several small forest plots across Savukoski, using state forest management roads to transport trees. It has so far been part of our social interest, which is ours. No one has even conditioned that it should start paying, because at the moment the prices we are getting from the forest are really bad. Now this autumn, a situation suddenly arose that interests me to start paying 15 cents per kilometre per cubic metre. This doesn't sound too bad, but we've got forest plots that need to be hauled 40 kilometers along state roads to get to public roads. We have forest plots, which in the worst case should start to cost EUR 6 — EUR 6 should also be paid to Metsähallitus for the use of these roads. Indeed, in our region, there is not much to pay for a stacked cubic meter, and in the same area, which should have cost EUR 6 for interest, we were prepared to pay less for interest. So if this forest owner wanted to put fiberwood on the market, he would have to pay to get the wood on the market. So in this case Metsähallitus is actually making a zero limit now for the private tree. This is not just in our territory, and that is why these private road charges should be moderated and we should consider what would be a sensible form of this journey. In my opinion, these social obligations should include, for example, the following: "Let us write down the obligation to promote other rural activities, such as private forestry." We need to think about and work on the wording of how these private forestry issues would be taken into account here that we would be able to live in cooperation with Metsähallitus' activities. Finally, I would like to mention this claim from Metsähallitus. It is currently between 120 and 130 million. That is definitely far too much. Perhaps 10 to 20 years from now this kind of money could be paid, but at the moment in many places, for example we in Savukoski, are being beaten up far too young forest. We could use some time to make it grow a little bigger and make even bigger profits. At least in the early years, we will not put very bad demands on this limited liability company. I would even be prepared to reduce the demand for income, for example, that we do not have to start selling state-owned countries, which is what we are currently having to deal with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u399	Madam President! The Metsähallitus Act under discussion is probably one of the most important laws for Finland, which deals with about one third of Finland's surface area. I think it best describes what this is all about. It is important that this proposal, which is demanding competition neutrality, which is what these European Union rules call for, should be carried out in such a way that we do not have to regret afterwards why we did not act now. My legal knowledge is not enough, and certainly not the knowledge of European Union law, to the extent that there are other options for dealing with this neutrality. I hope that the various committees in their own work during the winter and early spring will have a very thorough debate and expert consultation on this and then this solution to this problem will emerge. What is important, however, is that Metsähallitus' business, since it is now going to or is being incorporated into the company, is also precise and clear. Systems whose boundaries are not precise and regulations are not clear should not be developed. The tasks of the authorities are inherent in the public administration and, of course, are carried out by officials, as required by our Constitution, and then the administrations and other tasks must be separated. As I mentioned in my previous speech, there is a risk that, when activities become fragmented, they will be separated. It is a genuine danger, even if it is a good one, but in practice it has always happened in other cases. Among other things, some of the Greens have called for different land to be placed in different balance sheet items. Absolutely not. The entire land must be under one lead. We must not do this by placing it in different balance sheet items, in different extremes, where forestry is carried out in one balance sheet item, in the other the stutterguards are in charge and, at worst, Greenpeace is out there doing it and doing it. In this respect, control and management must be clear and the use of assets must be clear. This kind of administrative confusion should not begin, since it is now being rejected. It is natural that forestry business and other business must be profitable. The demand for income — I do not take a stand on what is the right level — that Metsähallitus has produced for the state, its over 100 million a year, is a good goal. I am not saying that it must be rising or falling; the main thing is that it is realistic. Of course, it must also describe what is happening in the Finnish wood market, for example. If prices fall, the demand for income must also fall. Of course, there are many other things involved in this business, such as the sale of mining rights, the income from it, the sale of land materials, the sale of land and so on. What is important, however, is that these points also be made clear so that we do not have to cry afterwards, that what a mistake we made now. And then as far as this two leaders' problem is concerned, which apparently is at the moment in the house, and it is quite obvious: This matter should be written into the law once and for all, so that the administrative and management rules are clear. There can't be more than one leader in the house. There cannot be a situation in which two different leaders are pulling in different directions, one is in favour of economic activity and sensible conduct, and the other leads to extreme protection, where nothing should be done. This is simply not going to be the case. I hope that a good report will be produced in this Parliament and that all the parties involved will be heard and then a clear law and its justification will be adopted. Note: the justifications of the law must be so clear that they may then be easy to interpret in court proceedings. This model of a single director is what I warmly support, and I believe that all the committees that issue an opinion will take a position on this from their own side and, of course, the committee that writes the report. Finally, Madam President, it is important that this revenue from Metsähallitus, which it produces every year, is divided into different municipalities in the region of this country, so that, for example, the mayor of Savukoski, the municipality of Maijala's home municipality, does not have to see sleepless nights or fear that the income development of the whole municipality will collapse. It is precisely when these incomes are collected from those provinces in northern and eastern Finland that the fruits of this Metsähallitus will also come. Then this suggestion that the head office should be transferred to Rovaniemi is an excellent proposal, and I warmly support it, and on condition that the head office, when perhaps going to Rovaniemi, is not the property of Senate property, which finances a completely absurd rent. Senate real estate is such a system that should be put to an end during the Czar regime or as a system during the Soviet regime in this country. It doesn't make any sense that it doesn't even live in a market economy — the name has experience in some of the Ilomants cases, that they asked for Helsinki's rent, even though they were in Ilomants, the easternmost municipality of Finland. This kind of expense never comes when choosing the place of the head office in Metsähallitus.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u400	Madam President! Metsähallitus manages a huge number of state countries and waters, one third of all Finland. These lands, all of us together, have a great deal of what is most precious in our nature, both to nature itself and to the natural friend who walks there. We also have everyman's rights. It is a delicacy that many European countries only dream of. I do not think that this amendment to the law is going to interfere with these rights for everyone. For the majority of Finns, the preservation of everyman’s rights as it stands is very important. The Metsähallitus Act is amended, and nature conservation and recreational use seem to be under pressure. This reform has also been justified by EU competition laws. Metsähallitus is a significant seller of roundwood. It is considered to compete here with other wood buyers. According to the draft law, a state-owned company is established for logging activities, with the name of the State Forestry Company. The company is granted exclusive rights to logging in government economic forests. The State Forestry Company would receive the existing assets and liabilities of Metsähallitus’s wood sales operations as its capital. The assets also include the proceeds from timber trades. It would also be entitled, by Parliament's decision, to a non-transferable right to hack into the state's economic forests. Forest ownership and management would remain unchanged. One of the government's key projects is the bioeconomy. In the future, the use of wood as a raw material for a significant bioeconomy will increase considerably as raw material for new products. Our present economy forces us to face the real truth. If Metsähallitus' return on forests has been poor compared to its value, it is probably better after this change. At least that's how faith works. This is another factor that drives Metsähallitus towards the need for integration without any external competitive pressure. Many companies will certainly want to take advantage of this opportunity to do business. This also involves an attempt to transfer the State-owned 2.7 million hectares of general water for the use of Metsähallitus' business. Today they belong to the part of Metsähallitus's balance sheet that forms Nature Services. The general waters were transferred to Metsähallitus' care as early as 20 years ago. In this case, the general waters were of no economic importance. They now see business opportunities in areas such as windmills, sandlifting and fish farming. I believe that, by now, the possibilities should be extended to almost unexploited waterways and to the thousands of lakes and rivers of Metsähallitus. The Finnish Forest Administration's watercourses need management fishing. As an active fisherman and hunter using Metsähallitus' land and water systems, I know that these countries, and in particular water bodies, are underused. Most of the food fish at our disposal is imported to Finland from outside our borders. Last year, more than 116 million kilos of fish were brought into our country. Here, too, Metsähallitus could be a guide in raising the value of domestic fish to its value. The investments in Metsähallitus' waters and countries remain in Finland, so that the predictability of all costs is also possible. In Finland, even in the waters of Metsähallitus, fishing is too small. This, too, is one of the reasons for the rapid deterioration of our waters. Sub-fishing and the supply of food fish only on fish counters will increase the quantity of fish in our waters, the internal load of water bodies will increase and the value fish will be reduced. If Metsähallitus rented watercourses to fish farming using the natural nutrient method and to fishing tourism entrepreneurs, I believe that it would also reduce the pressure on corporateisation and increase profits. For a landless hunter, the easiest and often the only way to get hunting is to obtain a hunting permit for state lands. This possibility must not be changed. Madam President! If Metsähallitus is now incorporated and its operations are limited so that expensive and loving national property cannot be destroyed for us at a later date, this can become a better and more diverse company. With this proposal Metsähallitus will remain as a whole, as the Minister has already said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u401	Mr President! Forests are the oldest soulkeeper in Finland. When we talk about the economy in relation to forests, we are used to thinking mainly about the commercial value of wood and land, and this has also been the case in this debate. It should be borne in mind that the recreational use of forests is not only of great human importance but also of economic importance. Two thirds of Finns move in forests weekly, 96 per cent, or almost everyone at least once a year. Health promotion related to forests also has an economic value, although it is not reflected in Metsähallitus' balance sheets. The Finnish Latu Association has pointed out that the forestry production targets talk about tens of millions of euros, but increasing mobility has the potential to save between EUR 1 and 2 billion in social and health expenditure, i.e. approximately 100 times the amount of money. Many have already said that Metsähallitus owns one third of Finland's land and water, i.e. Metsähallitus is Finland's largest landowner, and when matters are dealt with by Metsähallitus, it is a matter of great importance to our country and our common national treasure for nature. In relation to this, it is very unusual how this specific legal version has been prepared in short consultation rounds. The fact that the amendment is justified by EU competition law has already been highlighted in the debate, but most of the proposed changes have nothing to do with EU law. The EU does not in any way call for action to be taken on nature services, i.e. the decision-making power of public administrative tasks, and calls for solutions that would also reduce Parliament's power. The Government's proposal for a third balance sheet item blurs the distinction between nature services and the business part, and also obscures the control that the funds allocated to Metsähallitus' nature services are used for the purposes for which they have been granted by the Parliament. In the worst case scenario, this could even endanger the peace of Lapland's forests, because it is difficult to understand this third balance sheet item as anything other than an attempt to open up new areas, especially state waters, to commercial exploitation. This would by no means simplify Metsähallitus' organisation or state control, but quite the opposite. According to the Greens, the hiking areas of Metsähallitus should be removed from intensive forestry use and the waters should continue to be regarded as common national property. The company to be established must continue to be wholly state-owned and must be clearly stated in the law. Mr President! The rights of the Sámi have also been mentioned here. Many have said that today Victoria Tauli-Corpuz, the special rapporteur for the rights of the indigenous peoples of the United Nations, has expressed her concern about the impact of this bill on the rights of the Sami people, because during the previous government, articles on the right of the Sami people to their traditional livelihoods and territories have been carefully prepared. This UN representative also criticised the fact that the Sámi Parliament had only limited influence on the drafting of the law and stated that this was contrary to Article 19 of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. I find this very regrettable, quite incomprehensible. These overwrought paragraphs stated that Metsähallitus' projects should not undermine the Sámi's ability to engage in traditional activities, and the Sámi were also given the right to appeal against Metsähallitus' administrative decisions. The government has been much criticised for its strange attitude towards civilisation, research and education, and this bill also shows a strange attitude towards the Constitution and minority rights. The Constitution and other legislation and international agreements impose binding obligations on the state to consult the draft laws concerning the Sami people. This principle is being violated by the government, and I very much hope that this deficiency will be remedied in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u402	Mr President! As Mr Hassi said, travelling in forests and nature, for example, is the best exercise, including the best therapy, and it can certainly be recommended to all of us if and now that we get this autumn package and get a little break. But before that, a few words about this Metsähallitus law, which has been the subject of a referral debate and a lot of discussion. Not only have many good speeches been heard in this Chamber today, but the debate has also been very lively during this preparatory phase. It is true that it was very good that Mr Tiilikainen had the opportunity today to spend the evening here in Parliament's plenary with us on this important and big issue. Under Metsähallitus, there is one third of the area of our beloved country, as has been said, and that is why this is a very important law. As the Minister has said on many occasions with satisfaction, final decision-making in this area, as in other legislative changes, is always in the hands of the Parliament, and now this bill is going to the committees. It is important and appropriate that the concerns and issues that have been involved in the preparation and which have been heard today are taken into account during the hearings and deliberations of the committees. A few lunches on this committee work. Of course, the starting point must be that Metsähallitus will be a clearly integrated entity in the future, and that is what this legislative reform must be based on. I do not see any major problems as a result of the incorporation itself, and I am sure that it is justified to deal with this issue at the moment when this procurement law is being reformed. There is certainly also agreement that real control must continue to be exercised by a parliament elected by the people, and when it comes to our national property, its ownership must remain where it belongs. Much culminates in the continuation of nature services, and there should be an unambiguous position here. This operation must be secured, and The clear role of nature services must also be clearly enshrined in the law. Whatever this model is in the end, it must be clear, the structure must be clear and control and leadership must also be clear. The key question is how to manage this model. There is no room for contention or confrontation here as a whole. As part of the principles of sustainable development, to which the Minister also referred in his speech, balance must be sought here as a whole. The economic exploitation of forests and nature services cannot conflict with each other or be contrasted. This also means that the new system must support better interministerial cooperation. There is certainly still a need in committee to clarify these balance sheets of a business arrangement which seems rather complicated, which is ultimately part of the balance sheet of public administrative tasks and what role this so-called third balance sheet plays. Many organisations have expressed their concerns, and these messages will of course be taken into account in the committee's deliberations through expert consultations. Today we have heard how the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has reprimanded Finland about the draft law on the rights of the Sami people. I think it is quite clear that, in this respect, the draft law must obviously also be examined in committee from a human rights point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u403	Mr President! It is really important that Metsähallitus remains a domestic operator, and everyone has a common view of it. Fortunately, we also have a clear law on the entire limited liability company at the same time, i.e. we have a law on the State Forestry Company. The current arrangement in Metsähallitus has brought about the situation that almost all work can be done by domestic labour force and domestic companies. For example, local young people can be employed. In Savukoski, almost all young people have always received a summer job from Metsähallitus in forest planting. The current legislative pattern has managed to ensure that work does not cost foreign operators much. Now, this new limited liability company has certainly left the same situation, and what I have interpreted about these regulations is intended to ensure that the situation does not change very much from the current situation, in other words, that we actually get jobs, first and foremost, for the localities and local operators. Of course, domestic operators must be competitive, and we certainly do not start to make it worse. There has been a fear that company shares can be sold to foreigners, for example, but it is up to Parliament to decide whether or not to sell. But even now we have the situation that this Parliament can decide that we are selling significant amounts of state land to a private operator, that is to say, this state of fear already exists. It is up to us to decide whether these matters are handled by the state in Finland or by someone else. Finally, I would like to thank you all for the fact that so many people feel that this is a law that is very important to us. Let's make this as good as we can and we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-17-ps-84.u404	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2015 vp.
