ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mr Modig is asking for exemption from membership of a large committee. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u2	The third item in the order of business is the additional election of the Banking Council. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u3	The fourth item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the auditors of the Bank of Finland. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u4	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2015 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u6	Madam President! The Government's second draft budget is strongly political and is already drawing the line of the Sipilä Government, which cuts the lowest income families with children and those in the poorest position most, not only here in the country, but now also from the children of development cooperation countries. The Committee on Finance draws particular attention to this in its opinions when it states: "The Committee also draws attention to the fact that, contrary to the 2013 spending limits decision, revenues generated by auctioning allowances are no longer allocated to development cooperation or climate finance, but are used as a general budget envelope. Such a change of purpose is in itself included in Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme, but the change is due to enter into force in 2016. The committee believes that the government's approach is justified in this situation, but it is important that this issue be re-evaluated in the autumn. The committee notes and stresses that Finland must be able to take proper care of its commitments already made." Madam President! Now that this policy has been changed and this income has not been directed as previously agreed, it is worth considering what it means in practice for Finnish development cooperation. Finnish civil society is our national pride. Finns are hardworking, responsible and cooperative. This is particularly evident in Finnish development cooperation, with more than 200 organisations and over 90,000 volunteers. Finnish development cooperation is globally valued and professionally implemented. It has been built over decades in close cooperation with NGOs and administrative authorities. Its results are indisputable in reducing poverty and misery and promoting civilisation and entrepreneurship in third countries. There are hundreds of development cooperation organisations in Finland, which are at the same time the most direct channel to support the most vulnerable people in developing countries, especially women and children. In addition, the development cooperation of these organisations is often concentrated on groups of people, issues and geographical areas that are difficult to achieve through state development cooperation. Development cooperation through organisations is also very cost-effective, precisely because it involves nearly 100,000 volunteers. Madam President! As a result of the cuts already planned, the activities of many development organisations are likely to be significantly reduced and some of the actors will be completely eliminated. One organization said that this cut, when it comes to it, means a third drop in development cooperation for them. At the same time, the human capital that has been built up jointly by the state and non-governmental organisations will also be withdrawn from the market. The number of unemployed is also significant. I hope that the government will be able to return to this issue in the autumn and change its proposal so that these cuts can be moderated and also adapted for several years, allowing organisations to complete the projects that have already begun and reorganise their activities. Madam President! Another important point is that this draft amending budget does not contain any additional money for the employment budget. I hope that the government will return to this issue in the autumn too. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u7	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen criticised this directing of revenues from emission allowance sales into the general margin and not directly into development cooperation. It must be remembered, however, that even if the government is making this EUR 300 million cut in development cooperation appropriations, this EUR 37 million would not necessarily be for the benefit of Finnish development aid organisations. On this point, I certainly agree that Finnish development cooperation organisations, especially these large long-standing ones, are a very effective and transparent and effective way of doing development cooperation. In that sense, I would have liked the Minister for Development to have been here to respond to the way in which this can be prevented, so that we do not make these cuts of between 30% and 40% for them, but rather focus on these bilateral development cooperation projects and cooperation projects with the UN.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u8	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen drew attention to an extremely important issue, namely that we have so far been able to increase some of our contribution to development through emissions auctions. Last year we reached 0.6% — a very respectable figure — and now, of course, in the new government, this seems to be quite collapsing. But, above all, the issue raised by Mr Laukkanen is the funding of these organisations. I understand that there is a very broad consensus in this Chamber that it is organisations that are doing important development cooperation and doing it at a relatively low cost. There is a lot of volunteering and so forth, and now the organisations have been informed that they will have to cut their own expenditure by 30-40%. This applies to these large Finnish organisations, the Church's Foreign Aid and others. This seems to me to be very badly designed within the government. I would like this to be addressed further.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u9	Mr President! To Mr Niiko, I would like to say that, of course, the fact that emissions trading revenues are now being directed specifically towards the development budget, such as climate finance, would make it easier for organisations, among other things. We can all admit out loud that these savings are extremely high. And if we get emissions auction revenues for climate finance, we'll have some money left to adjust to. In practice, it means that if this does not happen, a new round will begin, a new round of surgery, and it will be very hard on the organisations, and in particular on the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u10	Mr President! However, Mr Paloniemi, we must take the facts into account and note that, in this second amending budget, we will increase the amount of government borrowing by 56 million, and without this abolition of emissions trading revenues, our loan would increase to EUR 94 million, so that in practice we would do so with loan money. In that sense, it makes sense in this economic situation to make radical decisions and to make those savings where it is most successful. In the past, it has been discussed how to direct the revenues generated by this auction of allowances directly to development cooperation. Is that the future anymore? We do not think it is, because this kind of automatic money shampoo can not be left anywhere in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u11	Mr President! It is very easy to agree here with Mr Aila Paloniemi, the representative of the Government, to take account of the fact that these savings in development cooperation are very hard and the organisations are very firm, and we have received a lot of information about this. In this internationalising world, at least I personally believe and my own group believes that Finland should assume its own responsibility for this world crisis. Sometimes, when listening to this government line on these issues, it feels that the government parties — or at least some of the government parties believe — should not help the poorest people in the world, the most distressed people, in their countries of origin, because development cooperation is being cut in such a way, but they should not be helped by helping them to get away with life, for example here in Finland. This would perhaps be a good idea for the government to clarify this line, whether the government has more than one line, as might be the case here in this debate, or whether it is
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u12	Mr President! It seems to me that nothing can be cut, that all the austerity measures are questionable as the government is proposing. Now all we have to do is balance the economy, it is a task for all of us. The chairman of the committee raised the issue of Winterfell. Winterfell has soon exported a total of EUR 0.5 billion of Finnish money, and this additional money, which is now being allocated in this amending budget, should be used to solve the purification of water. At the same time, we need to find a model for continuing mining and saving jobs in such a way that new environmental disasters do not occur, or, accordingly, prepare ourselves for the fact that, if such a model is not found, mining can be driven down. It's not a free procedure, either. It is estimated that this will cost as much as EUR 300 million, and here, when there is a minister, I would ask: do you think that 300 million would be enough to go down this road?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u13	Mr President! The reduction in the budget for development cooperation and the lack of sufficient money to manage employment in this employment situation are major criticisms which will also be well highlighted in the protest. But now that the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, is present, the question relates to this current situation. Greece is going to a referendum on the cutting lists. The Commission, the euro countries would have accepted significant cuts in Greece's welcome, but the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, did not accept them, in fact, contrary to its previous own studies and instructions that cuts are the worst possible. I would like to ask what is the state of democracy in the EU when the country itself is not allowed to decide on the content of the adjustment that the Commission and the euro countries would have accepted, but the IMF comes and rejects it. On the other hand, the question is that if Greece is now forced out of the euro area, what does this mean for Finland? Then Greece will not be able to pay back anything to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u14	Madam President! It is a good thing that Mr Arhinmäki drew attention to the fact that if Greece were to come out of the euro, it would have a considerable economic and social impact in Greece, but also in Finland and other creditor countries. In the general debate, I think that the Finnish public opinion is somewhat distracted by the idea that if Greece leaves the euro, the problem will be eliminated. The problem does not go away, but not only does we have direct claims from Greece, but the potential euro differential in Greece is likely to have a negative impact on the economic development of the euro area as a whole and will also have a negative impact on Finland's economic development. Mr President! When I listened here to the opposition's speeches that we should not cut off development cooperation, and when I have heard their speeches in the past that we should not cut off from anywhere else, it has become quite clear that the opposition is not capable of responsible economic policy in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u15	Madam President! When this situation is so serious in Greece, it is necessary to have an account of how this situation here and now will affect the Finnish economy as well as ours. It would be very important for the Prime Minister to inform the whole Parliament of what this means, and it would also be important to get confirmation of what Deputy Prime Minister Soini said last Thursday that Finland would under no circumstances accept that debts should be cut off and, until the end, hold on to guarantees. These are the greetings to the government: when will we get this report? As far as this amending budget is concerned, President, there is an acute concern here and now about employment. Employment appropriations are running out. It means the Sance card, the pay subsidy, the training budget, the start-up money — they are not there. We have young people out of work. We've got a lot of people out of work for a long time. The situation must be responded to here and now, and the government parties in their own position acknowledge this but are not prepared to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u16	Mr President! Development cooperation and Winterfell have been mentioned many times here. As far as winter danger is concerned, the most important thing is to achieve a long-term, sustainable and responsible solution, responsible for both the economy and the environment. Jobs must be taken into account and local aspirations must be taken into account. This item of expenditure is fixed-term and regrettable, but it is justified. The mine has potential, so it is well founded to seek a new opportunity for it. As far as the framework is concerned, there are indeed about 70 different cuts in the government programme, and I have not yet heard any opposition party say that this was a good thing, and that is what we would have taken up. We have to say that the expenditure of society has been cut very widely. Efforts have been made to look for items that do not contaminate their own economy and do not harm the Finnish taxpayer. The solutions are always bad. Of course, those who are concerned about these various non-governmental organisations which are active in the field of development aid can also give them relief from their personal resources to this temporary situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u17	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen made a distinguished speech in which he raised the issue of the end of employment appropriations and also the reduction of development funds. The committee has stated in its report that it considers it important for the government to closely monitor the adequacy of the employment budget. My question is: How can the government become money with mere follow-up? You don't think that surveillance's enough for this lack of money, do you? Then there is the debate on cutting development cooperation. It is clear that it causes problems for those organisations that have already concluded long-term contracts. This is where the committee stresses that Finland must be able to take care of the commitments that have already been made. How can Finland and Finnish organisations properly take care of commitments already made if there is no money?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u18	Madam President! Last Thursday, at the oral Question Time, the government seemed to forget the EUR 900 million security — it seems that the demos forgot everything except the EUR 900 million security. Then Timo Soini said to a very one-stop shop that under no circumstances will Finland provide any relaxation of the Greek loan terms. Alexander Stubb, is this Finland's mandate, is Finland prepared to reject the whole of the common Eurounity, because he only insists that the loan periods cannot be extended, that no cuts can be made? Is Finland alone prepared to take Greece to a state of insolvency? Is Timo Soin's speech last Thursday the position of the Finnish Government, or do you, Alexander Stubb, have another Finnish mandate to tell? And another thing, Winterfell: EUR 12 million every month. Not Minister of Economic Affairs, not Minister of Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u19	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz referred to the pursuit of a responsible economic policy and said quite frankly that there is no current opposition to it. Well, you can equally evaluate the recent history of the Coalition Party. Eight years have been the portfolio of either the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister. The debt just grew, there was no substantial change for the better. On the contrary, the debt was taken but not revived; on the contrary, the tax base was reduced in a very decisive way: a EUR 1 billion corporate tax reduction at a time when we should have looked at all the possibilities of increasing the State tax fund on the contrary. But with regard to these employment appropriations: whether it is forced savings or the fact that money will be used or tied up in advance in the coming years, in both cases the head has come to the fore. Long-term unemployment is increasing, youth unemployment is increasing, and the flow is increasing to those unemployed who are already more than two years of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u20	Madam President! Just a few more words about this Winterfell. Even in the best case, Winterfell is already a major environmental disaster, and in the best case it is already. And here are two different aspects: I have not seen the first piece of information that the process itself is worthwhile. On the other hand, I have not seen sufficient evidence that this problem of waste water has been resolved in a rational way. Now that this report also states that decisions must be taken urgently, and now that Mr Rehn is here, I ask you: what timetable do you think this sensible decision can be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u21	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that this Winterfell issue has now been dealt with as a very acute issue, as this is one of the most difficult national issues in Finland. The fact that it has now been raised means that we, as a state, are responsible for the situation and now something really is to be expected. I hope that there will also be a great deal of progress in this area. But it is not just Talvivaara, but there is quite a large mining boom still going on in Finland at the moment, and now we have environmental permits for other mines as well. In particular, we have environmental permits for the Sokli mine in Eastern Lapland at the moment. Now I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment: what effect will this acute situation in Winterfell now have on Sokli's environmental permit?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u22	Mr President! Unfortunately, in the midst of this process of the deadlock in Greece, the market is, of course, constantly assessing what kind of debtors are reliable, and I think it is important for Parliament to deal with the additional budget these days to give a credible impression that we are dealing with what we have now talked about and promised in the Government Programme. The opposition, just as the representative of Sampo Terho said, has announced, in fact, in every turn, that they are opposed to savings in one way or another during the last month — and always as some savings have been on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u23	Mr President! The key difference between the SDP and the Government is that the government has narrowed society outside of these savings. That's why the operating list's getting longer. We would be prepared to compensate for these savings, we have put forward our own options and we will present them. As far as this situation and responsibility are concerned, the most irresponsible of all would now be to do nothing. There are people who would like to become entrepreneurs, but the start-up money is out; there are people who would like to be employed, and there are many who would like to be employed, but there is no pay subsidy. But with regard to this situation in Greece, Mr President, meetings are now being held throughout Europe, emergency meetings are being prepared, and Heads of State are cancelling their journeys. Would it not be appropriate for the government now, in the form of a Prime Minister's announcement, to introduce a government policy on how it views the current situation, the impact it has on the Eurosystem, the Finnish economy, Finland's claims, responsibilities, what is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u24	Madam President! When it comes to employment, it is true that there is a need for employers and the removal of barriers to work. During previous governments, there have been laudable obstacles in this country to take up work by doing a variety of carnivals. If we do short-term work, people will not dare to go to work because they are better off with social assistance. I can't believe this. Secondly, if we talk about Greece: Greece was sold as a good deal, they said that it gives us good interest income. Yes, we did. In the last two years, we did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u25	Mr President! When it comes to credibility and reliability, it would probably be the least that when the government gives its first amending budget it would follow its own government programme. The Government Programme states that the transfer of emissions trading revenues from climate finance and development cooperation will start at the beginning of 2016. The Finance Minister, Mr Stubb's Ministry of Finance, proposed in the draft amending budget made public that this 37.7 million would continue to be spent on climate finance, but then at a table it was decided that the government programme would not be complied with in this respect. In December, there will be a climate conference in Paris, and Finland has gained appreciation for its responsible management of climate finance. Now, in the expert consultation, there was a great deal of concern about the negotiating position of Finns, the reputation of Finns, among other things, in preparing for this climate agreement when we are slipping away from these funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u26	Mr President! It cannot be said that the government is lacking in predictability, planning and reliability. I fully agree with Mr Uotila's assessment that you would think that the government was following its own government programme, but with regard to emissions trading revenues, you were doing exactly the opposite of what you promised. It seems rather strange, and that is why, from the point of view of the opposition, we must of course ask you what is wrong with you. The same is true of the question, as is the case throughout the world, of what is happening to Greece. Yes, Parliament is the forum that awaits these answers, but when the Committee on Finance has not even received enough information on how to move forward, I hope and appeal to you, Mr Stubb, to speak to the Prime Minister and bring the Prime Minister's announcement here to discuss Greece, for: Greece's responsibilities should not be extended. Finally, Mr President, there is a difference between governments. When the previous government
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u27	Honorable Speaker! The answer to this question is what is wrong with the government: With this additional budget, the State will increase its borrowing by 56 million. If these emissions trading revenues were not added to the general margin, then government borrowing would amount to 94 million in this additional budget. This is what's bothering the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u28	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here about our development cooperation and the reduction of development funds. Representative Paloniemi made a good speech about how difficult this would seem. Perhaps at this point I would say that the government has also had a place for value selection to take other types of decision. The Government Programme also stated that in 2015 emissions trading revenues would be directed towards development cooperation and the link would only be broken in 2016. This did not happen, however, but the government broke its own program by pulling out 37.7 million immediately. This is where the carpet is drawn under important Finnish projects. From my own country of origin — I myself was born in Afghanistan — I can tell the whole gym here that the work that Finns have done in Afghanistan has been invaluable. This is an important message, and I hope, Mr Government, Mr Stubb, Minister of Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u29	Madam President! The Christian Democrats, in their protest against the additional budget, draw attention to the fact that the government is now cutting from the most vulnerable, both globally and locally. Here, with regard to development funds, many speakers have pointed out how, of course, this amount is a problem, but especially this way in which the government makes this reduction in development funds. Among other things, Mr Uotila was creditably emphasizing that once the Government Programme has said that these cuts will take place from the beginning of 2016, this will come as an unfortunate surprise that this cutting is already taking place. And we really must thank the Committee on Finance for having honestly registered this here and hope that it will return to this issue, and it is said that 'the Committee stresses that Finland must be able to take care of the commitments that have already been made'. This morning I have been discussing with the Finnish Christian Development Organization, which stated that they must:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u30	Mr President! I, too, must add to this debate on development policy that no organisation with which I have spoken — and I have spoken to so many organisations — is in itself calling for these cuts to be withdrawn. They understand that this is a bad situation. But the most shocking situation is that this is going to be done so quickly, with a slump, next year, so that the organisations will not be able to adapt, but will have to make the rounds and so on. So this would certainly require a sensible sequence of these surgeries. I now believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could also look at its own budget and see if there is still room for such internal episodes. The Ministry of Finance does not, in itself, interfere with how they are amortised, it follows this integer. In my opinion, all creativity should now be used to save the long-term, fine work of the organisations, because now children are going with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u31	Mr President! As far as development cooperation is concerned, the cuts are, of course, painful, but they too must be able to do more with less. I would like to raise the issues where we can get a new job here in Finland to be born. It is good to have drinks in Winterfell now, and let's all hope, the whole hall, that there will be a new business. But when we also have the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment here, could you tell the gym what the value of Kemera money is? It is a great thing that the previous government managed to negotiate in the EU of Kemera, and this will also help us to mobilise wood. Although the amount is not very large, I know that it will create a lot of new work. Could you clarify this, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u32	Mr President! The opposition here always talks about individual adjustment measures at a time and makes it sound like how tragic it is. And it's tragic, really. But on the other hand, it's even more important to see the whole thing. We need to see the whole economy, and then these adjustments must be made. The opposition could be given a small task then, if you want to deal with them individually. For example, this emissions trading income: will it be used for inefficient development aid or will it be spent in Finland on employment appropriations that are now running out? You can answer this question if you like. If you are not interested in answering, it should be thought that the economy should be viewed as a whole. As far as Greece is concerned, you could say to Mrs. Aalto that Timo Soini cannot take Greece into insolvency or bring it into insolvency. Neither will the Minister of Finance, Alexander Stubb, be taken away from insolvency. If Greece becomes insolvent, it will be the result of Greece's own measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u33	Mr President! Yes, this speech now requires a small comment. You say, Mr Turunen, that the whole is of interest to the citizens and to you. That is what interests us here in the opposition, and that is the problem with this case! We believe that those who are well-off should participate in these efforts a little more so that these savings lists, which you in the government have been able to make — quite differently from what we had the courage to imagine during the last period of opposition — are reduced. You are actually doing a different policy, not only in this country but also globally. This is an essential issue for the whole. And it is easy for the government to say in this Chamber that nothing should be spared. That's not what we've been saying. We have asked why you do not involve the good people of Finland in these projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u34	Madam President! It was said here that these development funds, the EUR 37 million which amounted to EUR 21. By May 2015, some employment appropriations could be used. They cannot, they go undivided, they go into that black hole and they shorten the debt of the state. Now you should know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u35	Mr President! Now I will not mention the name of the representative because apparently the debate is slowly beginning to run out, but when the name was mentioned,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u36	Mr President! The Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Soin, have a role to play in whether Greece will be able to rise and thus affect Finland as well. If Greece is driven out of the euro area to insolvency, it will be reflected in the economy of all the euro countries and, in particular, in the economy of the peripheral countries such as Finland. It is now a question of Greece making its own proposal, which was prepared to make cuts, savings, structural reforms. Among other things, for the first time, military expenditure, which is the largest in relation to gross domestic product in Europe — Greece is arming itself against the other NATO country. But this wasn't for the IMF. The IMF took on the role of politicians, did not accept that the decision-makers elected by the Greek people should take adjustment measures, but from outside indicated that pensions which have already been halved,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u37	Mr President! Greece marks this amending budget. Greece has made a world record in recent history in its own economy and the economy of its own citizens. By now taking matters to a referendum with a non-recommendation, when there is no actual proposal, all confidence has been lost. And I think that This is being played by Greece as long as the Greek Government continues to pull the wool over — as long as it is allowed to pull the wool over. Unfortunately, this is a fact. We need to learn a lesson from this, and that is all the more important because Finland manages the economy in a confidence-building way and that the government's programme and possibly the social pact as a whole constitute a capital of confidence with which we can build our own growth in Finland. From Greece, Mr Arhinmäki, you went to learn, do not go again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u38	Mr President! There is no need to learn from Greece, precisely from those parties that were in power there: the sister party of the coalition, Nea Dimocracy, and Pasok, the Socialist Party, which have been in power since the military junta fell, have not intervened in corruption, have not intervened in tax evasion, have not taken care to collect taxes. For the first time, the government is in power, which is trying to tackle corruption and tax evasion, and in the last six months it has raised EUR 500 million in additional tax revenue. But it is quite clear that the current Greek Government has not succeeded either. But what the government seems to be learning from here is these corrupt old power parties, such as the desire to give a percentage reduction to the millionaires who hid their money in tax havens in a situation where, in a few years' time, they would in any case come to light and then have to pay full and full interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u39	Madam President! First of all, Mr Arhinmäki, do not give false information. It was not that the cuts in the defence budget had not been made to the Greek creditors. It was that the overall Greek offer did not give rise to the impression that Greece could thus improve its economy. And when the land is in debt and is at the mercy of creditors, it cannot afford to impose conditions on these creditors, but the creditors do. I agree, Mr Arhinmäki, with you that the previous Greek governments have made huge mistakes, including the lack of adequate support for corruption and tax evasion and so on. But today’s government has made a catastrophic mistake in promising the people in elections that debts will become available and benefits will increase and so on. Today it is for Greece to conclude an agreement with its creditors to remain in the euro area. The Greeks are now present to the decision-maker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u40	Madam President! In my opinion, the fact that we are discussing this Greece in this amending budget reflects the need that we now have here in Parliament: to get the Prime Minister to tell us what the situation is, what its impact is on the European economy and the market, what impact it will have on the Finnish economy, what impact this situation will have on Finland's access to. We are very interested in the fact that the government will maintain its line here, a strict line, that the debt reduction will not be accepted and that the guarantees will be held to secure the debts of the Finnish taxpayer with all their strength. I think it is quite clear, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, that such an announcement must come and that Parliament as a whole must be able to discuss this issue of Greece. So I am now asking Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, and also the relevant representatives of the Prime Minister's Party, in the ministerial box: will we receive this announcement of the situation in Greece, and will you come to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u41	Mr President! Yes, this is a very serious question now. The idea that there could not be a debate in Parliament about what we are doing in this situation as a Finnish policy is an incredible thing. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I have wondered how much we are still ironing this so that we read in the papers how things are going. I am pleased that Mr Kalli took this seriously now, that you are also watching the interests of the State in this matter. This is a very important thing that one morning does not wake up a bit like in a metamorphosis, that we have a thousand tentacles and just say that it was getting long. Yes, it is a big deal that you cannot cut your debts; solidarity is not the way of Finland. In the same way, the guarantees must be adhered to, and in that respect I hope that we do not see the trick again that all the talk was vain, that there was no planning, predictability, that there was no confidence in what the government was going to do. That is why I think it is good to say to Mr Turuse that you were also wrong about the fact that emissions trading revenue is now going into one black hole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u42	Madam President! Representative Tolppanen, a representative of the People's Party of Finland, seems to have already left, but he showed that he had been sleeping throughout the parliamentary term, claiming that the last parliamentary term would be simply built up bureaucratic barriers to work. This was certainly not the case; on the contrary, it was precisely the provision of protective parts for unemployment allowance and housing allowance and the removal of the effect of the spouse's income from labour market support, the introduction of a new employment bonus, the right for under 18-year-olds to earn money without affecting the housing allowance of the household, and so on and so on. What will the present government do to make it easier for people to employ themselves? The Government Programme promises a basic income test, but there is no information as it is going to be carried out and whether the Government is even preparing it. And what about other means? For example, Prime Minister Sipilä spoke before the elections that it should be possible to use earnings-related policies if a person wants to employ:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u43	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Mr Filatov, Mr Huhtasaari, Mr Laukkanen, Mr Andersson, Mr Kankaanniemi, and then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u44	Mr President! The budget for employment is indeed running out and there is a rush to increase it. We all know that when that money is put in te-offices is important. It is now happening that good projects will have to be driven down because there is no such money. It is sad that the Minister of Labour is not here because I am quite sure that he knows that the money is running out — even though other representatives of the government party are asking whether there is money or not. Such decision-making is rather short-term, whether it be development funds or employment policies, because the timing of money is also important. Now, on the project side, both around the world and here in Finland, the costs of the project are running, but they cannot produce results because the operating money has been cut off.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u45	Mr President! Mr Viitanen and Mr Kiuru, we should have an honest debate. We don't have any guarantees, we have a profit exchange agreement. But you believe this story of yours, because apparently nothing replaces the lost face of a politician.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u46	Mr President! I would like it to be as Mr Niikko has said here that this money, which is being reduced, does not apply to NGOs, but once these letters have already left these organisations, that they will have to adjust their economies and cut them off, then we will be talking about the facts. Representative Huhtasaari apparently read one book very carefully and failed to read all the other books. Finnish development cooperation is globally valued, effective, modeled, copied. If there's some bad fruit in that basket, it doesn't mean the whole basket is bad. It's kind of like people on bread lines. There's about 3% of the cons in there. Should all the bread lines be shut down? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Development cooperation must not be abolished, it must be supported. It's for every civilized man,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u47	Madam President! First of all, Mr Zyskowicz was informed that the Greek Government would in fact have agreed to the claims of creditors for such large budget surpluses that this discipline policy would in any event have continued in Greece. It was simply a question of not being able to accept direct cuts in the income of Greeks already on very low incomes. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb: do you not see a slight contradiction in the fact that the government, during Question Time last week, stated in a very strict tone that Finland will by no means accept debt remission, but that Finland is now one of the euro countries, alongside the IMF, setting such strict conditions in these negotiations that, in practice, Greece is being driven out of euro cooperation, when we know that precisely this uncontrolled euro difference, that is, the line that the people of Peru support, is the alternative which may cause the greatest financial losses for Finland, in addition to the fact that the social consequences for the Greeks may be very unpredictable?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u48	Mr President! I am particularly surprised by this Socialist speech on employment money. When last autumn the Minister for Labour was Mr Ihalainen and the Minister for Finance, Mr Rinne, did you not know how much employment money is needed in 2015 when it has already been exhausted in June? I can't believe this. It's not responsible. On the other hand, as far as development cooperation is concerned, the report says that the government will have to submit a proposal in the autumn, and it is quite possible that the political decision taken in 2013 will be put into effect for this year. It's under parliamentary scrutiny. It is a decision taken in the spending limits decision and should be taken. As far as this state austerity policy is concerned, page 35
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u49	Then Minister Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u50	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. Perhaps I would like to give the answers to three sets of questions which have been raised in several speeches. The first is employment appropriations, the second is development funds, and the third is Greece, because it is so strongly on the agenda. First of all, I would like to thank the committee and also the authors of the objections for the fact that the objection did not include any additional appropriations for the draft amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u53	Then Minister Rehn, and three minutes, now with better luck.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u54	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, this is where representatives Kalli, Terho, Aalto and Salolainen and several other representatives drew attention to the problems of Winterfell and raised reasoned questions. With regard to Winterfell, the government received a very heavy legacy, including the fact that there is already an extremely serious environmental problem in Winterfell, in fact, an environmental disaster, and what is essential is — and this is also my answer to Mrs Salolainen — that if nothing is done now in the summer or at the latest in the autumn, full water pools are very likely to erupt over the frost during the winter and there will be an even worse and more expensive disaster in Winterfell. That is why the most irresponsible thing would be to do nothing, to leave Winterfell on its hands, and that is why the government's objective, to which we have sought support and powers from this Parliament, is to find a long-term and responsible solution, as Mr Terho said, both from an environmental and economic point of view. In this respect, the Government has two main objectives: The first is that we are able to prevent a worse environmental disaster, which is a necessary condition for the organisation of water extraction and purification. Secondly, we need to find out and pave the way for an economically sustainable solution. Negotiations are currently under way with an experienced and competent operational industrial partner. We assess the business plan of the new company, this Terrafame company, during the summer, especially from the perspective of its functionality and realism. At the same time, unless a commercially sustainable solution is in sight, if it does not get on the foot, it must also be prepared for a controlled shutdown. However, it is a more expensive option, at least EUR 300 million, and that is my answer to Mr Heinos. This is an approximate estimate, and that is likely to be a downside. The conclusion is therefore that an economically sustainable solution is also much better for the environment, not to mention Kainuu's regional economy and employment. If that is not the case, then, unfortunately, we must also be prepared for another alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u55	Then there is Minister Tiilikainen, for whom two minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u56	Mr President! After all, the primary objective of the Finnish Government is to stop living as a debt, so that we do not fall into that Greek path. And now we are asking questions about a lot of savings, including that development funding, where emissions trading revenue will no longer be directed. This has nothing to do with the climate agreement right now. The government is preparing to reach an ambitious climate agreement in Paris as part of the EU to keep to that two-degree warming target. This means that all major emitters must be involved in that climate agreement, and although Finland is not such a big emitter, as a developed country, we still have a responsibility to reduce our own emissions, and that is why the government invests heavily in renewable, emission-free energy. The representative, Mr Kalmari, referred here to these funds under the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act and to energy support for small wood. They are strongly involved here in the additional budget precisely so that we can carry our share. More important than what the current low revenues from the non-functioning ETS are being used for is that the ETS will be corrected so that it will start to become revenue-free and will start to shift to zero-emission production. And when emissions trading works, these revenues must, of course, be used to curb climate change. In due course, after 2020, they will certainly also help the countries most affected by climate change to adapt in accordance with the new agreement. At the same time, it will ensure that our own industry and employment remain involved, that the risk of carbon leakage is minimised and indirect costs are compensated. Representative Maijala asked how the problems of Winterfell affect Sokli. Each authorisation is made in its own place, and Sokli is evaluated independently of Winterfell,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u57	Let's continue on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u58	Mr President! In that recent debate, the problems that this supplementary budget debate involves were already quite clear. Today we must say that we certainly have before us the first objection of this parliamentary term to the amending budget, which has been made jointly by the Socialists, the Left Alliance and the Greens. It is in this protest that we call for the recognition here that employment appropriations are exhausted or development funds are not even treated as a government in its own government programme. This is what we are paying attention to. But, President, here is the problem that: President! The problem is also that more employment appropriations will be cut by 50 million over the coming year, by 110 million over the whole period, and that is a very problematic issue. Our second statement is a somewhat more general economic policy of this kind, which was just mentioned here. It was pointed out that it is not the right choice of values, that the rich survive these efforts like a dog and, at the same time, cuts are made to the weakest: children, the elderly, the unemployed. It's just not the right choice. Everyone understands that if the purchasing power of a low-income pensioner is cut, then at least it will not improve the economy — although it is also humanly wrong — it is also unwise in economic policy terms. Prime Minister Sipilä himself has admitted that this government programme is based on the fact that the good people are not involved in the recession. We do not agree with this: it is more fair that, for example, by slightly changing tax lines, we are able to make value choices such as investing in employment and making more difficult cuts through these choices. Prime Minister Sipilä has also said that all these effects on equality, justice, income distribution, employment will be evaluated, but only afterwards. We assume that it is not an ex-post evaluation but, of course, an ex-ante evaluation, and this is the subject of a joint protest by us, the opposition — the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens. In addition, we have two other statements and they concern this development problem, which we have been discussing for a long time now, and then Winterfell: with regard to it, the government would provide a clear plan to allow industrial activity to continue, and also a contingency plan for it, if other times come. These four impetuss are the content of our common protest. President! I understand that we do not need to read these yet, but in any case we will be presenting them. And I really hope that, when the government parties also admit these problems here, and when we put forward a proposal, that Parliament would require the government to address the employment problem, for example, at the beginning of the autumn, then the government parties could also, in their forthcoming voting decisions, join in these efforts and thus together tackle this screaming problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u59	Madam President! In the expert opinions of the committee, we have been able to read from the opinions of the various regional authorities that there is currently a crying shortage of employment funds. We're out of money this year. This means that companies that are wanted to boost growth will not be born in the desired way and, for young people who have graduated this spring, there will be no pay support for them in the autumn. In its amending budget, the government makes a conscious choice that it would rather pay for people not to get a job than for people to be able to work even on a fixed-term basis. The Government is prepared to spend EUR 12 million a month on the farce company Talvivaara for two years, but is not prepared to provide additional money for the employment of young people, entrepreneurs, the long-term unemployed. 288 million in two years, that's a very expensive option. The Government is due to adopt the third amending budget at the end of October. With regard to unemployment and its impact on human and national finances, this is without helping too late. The Government has set itself the objective of laying the foundations for all activities of growth and employment. It would therefore be logical for the government to prepare, at the beginning of the autumn period, a new amending budget to address the ever-increasing problem of unemployment. The Ely Centres estimate that an additional EUR 110 million will be needed for the rest of the summer. Madam President! We must be prepared for the orderly closure of Winterfell. The committee's report states that the decision to continue commercial activities or to shut down the mining company must be taken quickly, as the current situation will bring additional costs to the state and increase the risk of worsening environmental problems. Since this word "fast" can mean almost anything in time, it is important to define a time-limit for this decision. The decision to continue commercial activity or to shut down mining must be made by the end of September 2015 at the latest, and I would like to hear from you, Minister of Economic Affairs, what you think is the red point, the last moment that decision itself must be made. We need to end this endless lurking with this issue. Since neither the committee’s expert hearing nor the Minister for Finance nor the Minister for Economic Affairs have shown in any way how a new mining company could operate profitably on market terms, there is no reason to expect that the profitability of the mining company will improve over the next two years. My question is: how does the government intend to explain to the public in two years' time that you have deliberately put good money on bad money instead of putting that EUR 12 million a month in support of Kainuu's business, employment and so forth, taking care, among other things, of the damage caused by the mining company Talvivaara and helping to protect the environment? This is the reason for every Member of Parliament to reflect on what to say in two years’ time. We've deliberately put good money on bad money. Madam President! The Government must respect the budgetary and decision-making powers of the previous Parliament. The Government has decided not to allocate the accumulated allowances auction revenues by 21 May 2015 to development cooperation and international climate finance. In this way it cuts the decision-making and budgetary powers of the previous Parliament, knowingly, and also violates Prime Minister Sipilä's government programme, knowingly. Sipilä's Government Programme states that the Government will not allocate allowances auction revenues to development cooperation from the beginning of 2016. It is possible to prepare for this decision, as did Aila Paloniemi from the government's ranks, but it has not been possible to prepare for cutting already agreed funds. The Government's decision came as a sad surprise to all our partners, because, Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb, you have repeatedly assured us that the government's second amending budget for 2015 is a purely technical amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u62	Madam President, värderade fru talman! Regeringen constaterade i remissdebatten om den andra tillagsbudgetpropositionen för 2015 att den huvudsaklgen är en tileggsbudget. Det är det svårt att hålla med om. Tvärtom, förslaget är allt ä enbart tekniikat. Det innehåller uppenbara politiska signaler. I finansministeries förslag ingick en ökning på 37729000 euro för multilateralt utvecklingssamarbete, och av ökningen förorsakas 35375000 av inkomster från auktionnering av utsläppsrätter och resterande 2354000 euro av inkomster från auktionneringen av utsläppsrätter för luftfart. I enlighet med 2013 års rambeslut ska inkomster från auktionneringen av utsläppsrätter styras till klimatfinansieren och utvecklingsamarbetet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u63	Madam President! To begin with, a few quotes: 'Piip — considers the general economic policy line of the government to be flawed. A number of high-value economic experts have recommended avoiding pre-emerging fiscal adjustment in the recession. Nevertheless, the government is in a recession in which fiscal policy is greatly tightened. It is therefore clear that the impact of government economic policy on both employment and economic growth is very negative. The plight of the unemployed does not seem to be of interest." The second quote: 'Pip — is appalled at the fact that the government is cutting back on the employment budget at a time when our country is facing mass unemployment. We cannot possibly accept such an irresponsible decision and call for the cut to be cancelled and employment appropriations to be increased." Both beep words were supposed to have "Basic Finns" .
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u67	Mr President! Unemployment has increased faster than anticipated, for example the number of long-term unemployed has increased by 21 per cent year-on-year. In my own province of North Karelia, the share of the unemployed among the labour force was nearly 16 per cent at the end of May. In Pielinen, the unemployment rate was over 18 per cent and in North Karelia there are more municipalities where the unemployment rate is currently over 20 per cent. The number of unemployed persons in North Karelia is nearly 9 per cent higher than one year ago. In North Karelia, youth unemployment has long been lower than in the rest of the country, but now unemployment among under 25-year-olds is clearly increasing more than in the rest of the country. Currently, 22 per cent more unemployed under 25 years of age in North Karelia than one year ago. Despite these facts, in the second amending budget, the government does not propose any appropriations for the management of employment. Employment appropriations will be exhausted in many regions by early autumn. In some areas they seem to have run out. North Karelia will run out of money by August at the latest. The Government has planned to bring the next amending budget to Parliament only in October. This is incomprehensible because the end of the employment budget means that unemployment will even rise to record levels. In particular, additional funding should already have been directed towards the employment of young people and the long-term unemployed. Since this is not the case, the proposal for a statement on this subject, jointly drafted by the SDP, the Greens and the Left, is very welcome. It calls on the government to bring an amending budget for employment to Parliament immediately at the beginning of the session. I really hope this will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u68	Mr President! The government's proposal does not include a proposal to increase the employment budget, although the employment appropriations included in the actual budget for the current year are, according to a report, largely committed. According to a report received by the Committee on Budgets, the share of uncommitted appropriations varies from around 5% to 20% per centre, and in many places it is estimated that employment appropriations will be exhausted by early autumn. The Ely Centres estimate that the need for an additional allocation would be EUR 110 million. The situation is difficult for us in North Savo, among other things. A particular problem is the inadequacy of wage subsidies. Finding jobs for disadvantaged people is a challenge on the private side, and in practice responsibility for the employment of the long-term unemployed lies with the public sector. It would therefore be important to allocate sufficient resources to public sector actors for their employment. However, more than half of the funding of subsidised work is allocated to the private sector. It should be noted that since the beginning of this year, municipalities have had to pay a fine for unemployment due to the long-term unemployed to Kela already after 300 days of unemployment instead of the previous 500 days. In addition, after 1000 days of unemployment, a fine is imposed on municipalities. In particular, the problems caused by inadequate wage subsidies, increased payment conditions and the allocation of funding may lead to unsustainable situations for municipalities. However, it is possible to mitigate the situation by means of additional funding from the state and appropriate political guidance from the employment and economic authorities. I agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that it is important for the government to closely monitor the adequacy of employment appropriations and that the government has the capacity, if necessary, to assess the additional need for employment appropriations during the early autumn. Mr President! The amending budget proposes an increase of EUR 116 million in the authorisation of agri-environmental compensation. I hope that the current government will give a stronger direction to agricultural policy in support of food production. Apparent farming should not be a livelihood for anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u69	Mr President! The latest unemployment figures were released last week and once again showed how the time of mass unemployment in Finland is being lived. At present, unemployment rates are highest in 15 years and, in particular, long-term unemployment is rising rapidly. One of the biggest problems with the government's amending budget is what it does not include. Now, the amending budget is prepared to cover the additional costs arising from the increase in unemployment, such as the EUR 50 million increase in earnings-related allowance expenditure on unemployment benefit, but does not provide for an additional allocation for employment, despite the urgent need. At the same time, the employment and economic development offices across the country should be informed of the end of employment appropriations. Most of the appropriations have already been committed to promote the employment of particularly vulnerable unemployed people, which means that in many places there will be no more funds for employment for other job seekers or that they will be running out after the summer. Since the beginning of May, it has not been possible to make new wage subsidies or start-up money decisions at all. And there are places where, since February, no money has been available for youth pay support, except in situations where young people are long-term unemployed. In May, the Ely Centres estimated that the budget for services provided to non-long-term unemployed was sufficient for the summer or early autumn. In the same context, the Ely Centres reported an additional allocation of enough EUR 110 million. However, such appropriations are not included in the Government's amending budget, despite the fact that Juha Sipilä's Government says that it is seeking to promote both employment and entrepreneurship. Moreover, it is particularly incomprehensible that the government is planning to cut back on inadequate employment appropriations as early as next year. In practice, the lack of these appropriations will mean that the unemployment rate of more and more people, including young people, will be prolonged and that more start-ups will be delayed. The policy of this government will cost us, both humanly and socially, a great deal. Prolonged unemployment and poverty feed on a person’s self-esteem and belief in the future and, in addition, become more expensive for society than providing paid work. Similarly, paid employment is the most humane out of labour policy measures for an unemployed job seeker when it guarantees employment and also wages in accordance with collective agreements. Mr President! This amending budget has been described, inter alia, by the Minister of Finance as technical. The decision to allocate money to the costs of unemployment, but not at all to the management of employment, seems to me to be not a technical one, but a political choice. Political is also the government's decision to make further cuts to Finland's climate and development cooperation by directing the revenues from auctioning allowances to the general budget ceiling, not to development cooperation or climate finance, as the 2013 spending limits decision would have required the Government. This additional cut in climate and development cooperation may mean that the development cooperation projects that are already under way will have to be phased out prematurely and that Finland will be very far removed from the target of 0.7% of gross national income for the development co-financing rate. In addition, it has a negative impact on Finland’s position in the climate negotiations in December and may even make it difficult to reach a climate agreement. Mr President! The economic policy line of this government is far from promoting employment or entrepreneurship. The government will implement a policy of cuts in unemployment, cuts in social security that are destabilising the position of the unemployed and cuts in the employment budget. In addition to this, drastic cuts in development cooperation appropriations are making life miserable for the most disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u70	Madam President! A Government proposal for the second amending budget for 2015 is included in the agenda and discussion. As I followed the debate just now, I had the impression that the left-wing alliance considered the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Tsipra, to be an excellent head of state. I'm not as convinced of that. I think time will show. Nor do I believe that Tsipras can or does not want to solve Finland's economic problems, not to mention supplementary budget matters. Employment appropriations in the actual budget for the current year have already largely been spent, as has been shown in many speeches. In the view of the Christian Democrats, the government's proposal for an amending budget should have allocated more resources to employment and, in particular, to support start-ups in the face of a further deterioration in the employment situation and an increase in income problems and social inequalities. In particular, the lack of pay subsidies will further affect the position of those who are difficult to employ and young people. Madam President! The difficult economic situation in Finland can only be translated into growth through entrepreneurship, work and joint action. The Christian Democrats believe that employment measures should be stepped up, especially in order to facilitate the situation of young people, the long-term unemployed and single parents. In order to reduce structural unemployment, it is also necessary to create jobs for those who have little or no vocational training. At present, the abolition of state subsidies makes it difficult for companies, organisations and municipalities to employ. Since business start-ups are also running out of money, start-ups will have to rely on loan money or potential savings. The fact is that if the employment budget is not increased immediately, the creation of new businesses will slow down and employment measures for the unemployed will stop. The government must assume its responsibilities and take urgent action to promote entrepreneurship and improve the employment situation. After all, the Government has announced that it will only submit the next draft amending budget to Parliament in October. It's too late. On the basis of the above, we will propose a statement for adoption tomorrow, in which Parliament will require the Government to prepare a draft amending budget focusing on the management of employment and ensuring the adequacy of the company's founder's start-up money in the country as a whole and to submit it to Parliament immediately at the beginning of the autumn session 2015. We also support Mr Nylund's protest about the direction of climate finance in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u71	Madam President! In the Government Programme, the employment of the long-term unemployed has been identified as a priority, which is a very good goal in writing, but, above all, this issue needs action rather than good objectives and fine words. Unemployment has even grown faster than anticipated since last year. A great deal of work has been done in Finland to build a system of employment and activation so that society can help those affected by unemployment. In order for the built and existing system to work, funding from the state is needed. The situation is that in many places around Finland the budget for the long-term unemployed is already running out. It is shocking that the government is not making any additional money in the amending budget for unemployment measures. During the previous term of government, the Finns of Finland and the Centre were concerned about the inadequacy of unemployment measures. Before the elections, all the government parties were concerned about this. Now that the government has all the keys in its hands with the amending budget to influence the matter or even to safeguard the current possibilities, this will not happen. This happened during the previous term of government. It was important for us that the amending budget was able to safeguard the conditions for employment measures. At the Imatra sub-region of South Karelia there are more than 500 customers, long-term unemployed and persons participating in rehabilitative work activities on an annual basis. Work Through the operations of the year, customers are attached to the labour market, and business cooperation is the cornerstone of this activity. The network consists of about 100 companies. As early as last week it has become known that the South East Finland Te Office is running out of money for the employment of the long-term unemployed. This is even clearer. This is an emergency and we need more action, more money. You save, government, but you do not need a great deal of reason to understand that if unemployment increases, the challenges of maintaining other services will also increase. The Government plans to bring the next amending budget only in October. I'm asking you, this isn't gonna happen, is it? The government should definitely have proposed an additional allocation already. It is therefore absolutely essential that a new amending budget for employment should come right after the summer. The need is significant, EUR 110 million. Do you, as the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens object?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u72	Madam President! The main problem with the Finnish economy is unemployment. Why are we in debt? This is because, on the one hand, we have to pay so much unemployment benefits and, on the other hand, we lose tax revenue, we lose a huge amount of hours at work. This is, in fact, also reflected in this Government's draft amending budget. After all, it provides for more money to cover the costs of unemployment. But is it reasonable, in economic policy terms, whether it is fair, in humane terms, to spend only on the management of costs, on the management of the problem, and not to provide sufficient funds and medicines to solve the problem itself: on employment appropriations? The common demand of the red-green opposition has very clearly been raised here that the government should bring in an amending budget at the beginning of the autumn season with more employment appropriations, and I believe that this message has also been received by the government — so hard on the part of the government, so hard on economic policy and humanely, cannot even be the solutions of the government. In his own speech, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, said a little mischievous, that there is a crisis awareness when, at least, the opposition does not make any additional money. I do not know whether it was a mistake of thought or whether the recent Minister of Finance is not yet familiar with the budgetary processes — that is, the red-green opposition would have proposed additional appropriations now and immediately, which would have been necessary if the article had only been open. Unfortunately, no supplementary budget can be presented for items that are not on the table. In fact, in view of this situation, it is incomprehensible that this article was not open by the government and that no additional appropriations were proposed for it. Madam President! In addition to the amending budget, there was a debate on the situation in Greece because what will be the solution in Greece will have a direct impact on the economy of all European countries. There is too much debate in Finland that we and them, as if the Finns and the Greeks were opposites. And now the cross to the wall: I agree with Mr Zyskowicz. He pointed out what I myself have been trying to bring: it is in the interests of the Finns, of all Europeans, to get their economies in order, to have human life conditions. At the same time, the debate on whether or not loans are being cut is, at least from the first, more fence-sticked debate when the whole problem should be solved. In other words, if Greece is driven out of the euro uncontrollably and goes into insolvency, it means that we are not getting back the money we have borrowed directly during the Vanhanen-Katainen government, on the other hand, those we have secured through the ESM. That is why we should find a solution that the Greek Government has in fact said all the time: corruption in discipline, tax evasion in which the previous governments did nothing, sustainable economic growth and employment, which would enable the country to pay back most of its loans. Mr Huhtasaari spoke here, saying that we should not cut the loans, we should not make any concessions. In fact, it is the hardest solution for Finns too: it means that Greece goes into insolvency and we get nothing back. Of course, you can shout that nothing is forgiven, nothing is forgiven, but is it good for the Finnish taxpayer? No, it's not. The problem with this issue of Greece is that, in fact, Greece has made huge cuts over the last few years and the economy has been getting worse all the time. The IMF itself has admitted that too drastic cuts were a mistake. The IMF has been amicable, but what happened last week when Greece met with a completely new proposal with very important measures? The IMF was the one that pulled it over, even though, according to international press reports, the Eurogroup and the Commission had accepted the proposal. In other words, a body that has nothing to do with democratically elected decision-makers takes the opportunity to: From the growth and rise of Greece. And now we should seek a solution that is acceptable in Greece and in the eligible euro countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u73	Madam President! At the moment, Finland's biggest problem is the decline in exports and the lack of investment. Unemployment is not a cause, unemployment is a consequence and it should also be dealt with as a result. If we do not get euros from other countries if we do not get rubles, dollars, crowns or, for example, drachmas in the future, this country will not rise. This country needs to get money from somewhere else here. We have been talking here for a very long time about how unemployment is not being treated, how unemployment is being treated badly. The tracks here will lead to the spit factory. Among other things, there has been talk of pay subsidies here, and the previous government made a decision that took the pay subsidy away from people who were receiving earnings-related unemployment benefits. It even happened that if a person had a paid job and a year changed and a new law came into force, the pay subsidy was broken down and it was said that come back after 300 days of labour market support, after which some people had to be out of work 800 days before the pay subsidy money could be used or increased. There has been talk here about how we should be able to give money to deal with unemployment. It's the right thing to do. But unemployment is not treated by trick job creation. It helps some people at some point. But unemployment does not go away by working for six months and working for six months and working for six months and unemployed for six months. We need permanent jobs, we need industrial jobs, we need investment. During the previous government, nearly 150,000 industrial jobs were lost in this country, nearly 150,000. And now it is said that we must be able to handle these with various grants. Not through subsidies, but through investment in the country so that the country's exports can be withdrawn. That's the most important thing. Of course you have to take care of people's livelihoods. But even in that, the previous governments have done their own thing. When a person becomes unemployed, he is punished for it. By previous governments, earnings-related unemployment benefit is, as I am sure you know, about 60% of the salary. After that, taxation will rise to 20%, even if it has been at work, for example, 12%. In addition to this, the unemployed are currently being punished by the fact that the five-day period immediately snaps when he becomes unemployed, and then, finally and finally, when he falls into that labour market subsidy, a new one will come, that he will surely remember where he is. The government has now promised to intervene in these matters. Obstacles to employment have been promised to be removed. Now I would really like someone from the government, ministers, to tell me about these things. Personally, I find it very bad that the Minister of Finance is not here now. But this is my personal opinion. Winterfell: There has also been a lot of talk about it today, and now a lot of money is promised. If I understood this correctly, then the money that has now been promised to Winterfell is to be used to determine whether Winterfell can be continued or must be driven down. I'm wondering a lot. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is precisely the case, that study will take two years. Is it not possible to do so in a faster time and then use this money either to bring down Winterfell or to continue it because both pay? You can't just shut down Winterfell. It's such an environmental disaster at the time that nobody's gonna get away with it. Greece is a problem for us. As you know, Greece has been a problem in previous governments. The production alternative agreement is not a good deal for us, and even if Greece pays us interest, as it has paid us, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have returned that money back to Greece because and on the grounds that we cannot now export money where it really does not exist. But I really look forward to the actions and effects of this government on unemployment, investment and exports. The actions of previous governments have driven this country into this pit, where it is now. There's only one way out of here now, and that road is up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u74	Mr President! In this amending budget, attention should be paid to around EUR 20 million, which will be used for the reception costs of asylum seekers. This has to do with the fact that around 3,000 asylum seekers came to Finland last year. This year the latest forecasts have spoken of up to 8,000. Of course, this will force the government to break down. We must inevitably spend more money to deal with the situation of these people. It is likely that reception centres will have to be opened up, and this amending budget states that funds will be spent on hiring people who manage these asylum-seekers. It is good for the people of Peru to put funds in place to ensure that processing times are as short as possible. It is likely to save money. But it is equally important to pay attention to the fact that it does not happen what I believe to be a danger: for example, the Mayor of Punkalaitume commented on the situation so that, when the reception centre is possibly coming to Punkalaitume, it is a sort of victory for them — it means jobs, money. This is certainly true from their point of view, but I see the danger of creating a kind of asylum business, if you can say so, in which case the parties will not think about what is the country's overall interest, but what the municipality will win. This is something that the government should pay attention to. The second point, Mr President, is that the Finnish Government must be able to reduce Finland's attractiveness as a destination country and strictly address the loopholes that still exist in the asylum system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u75	Mr President! Despite Mr Tolppanen's assessment, I have the courage to express my own opinion on this employment management. Indeed, in this second government draft amending budget, the policy of the government, or the policy of not doing it, towards the unemployed in our country is the main question and amazement. There is therefore a total lack of employment input in this proposal. In a situation where the unemployed are hundreds of thousands and long-term unemployment is increasing, the government is satisfied with the situation, without spending one cent on the employment budget. I would also like to remember the old ones in this Chamber, so much so that the previous government was very often investing in the management of employment in the context of the additional budgets, and that is to say, in the time that the unemployment rate was increasing all the time. In different regions, the whole of this kingdom has become a message either about the end of the money completely or about the impossibility of further implementation without any additional money. I wonder whether these messages have certainly not come to the government of our country or to the Minister for Labour, let alone to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli, because he said at the outset in his own presentation that the money might run out. I would like to inform Mr Kalli that his own country, for example, has already run out of money. The unemployed must be able to be activated not only for their own quality of life but also for rehabilitation and prevention purposes. I think the government should also know these points. Personally, I still trust that at some point the time will come when most of us are needed in working conditions, and this is simply not possible on this sort of passive line, which is now largely going on. It is to be hoped that the opposition, in cooperation with the various organisations, will also put pressure on them during the summer time that the government will simply not dare not act in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u76	Mr President! The Committee on Budgets rightly draws attention in its report to the adequacy of the employment budget. Of course, it is understandable that the Ely Centres were first informed of the amount of uncommitted appropriations, and now that information has already been received in committee, quite a fact, about the missing appropriations, about EUR 110 million, there must, of course, be a view of how to deal with the matter, where to get that missing amount of euro, or, accordingly, what new forms of action are being developed in order to ensure that the employment situation does not deteriorate as a result. After all, the subject has become a subject of enormous concern to all of us, and since increasing employment is such an important objective in today's policy, there is a justification for an adequate level of these employment budgets. However, it is very cost-effective to create jobs for the long-term unemployed. In committee and in public, the opposition has been very critical of the employment budget situation, but it is good to remember that the legislation on employment services has recently entered into force and was thus prepared by the previous government. This package was expected to lead to this difficult situation. So I am not underestimating the situation that has now arisen, but I would like to see a more effective coordination of the work of the various project players who promote employment. Consideration should therefore be given to how the range of employment policy projects, such as those financed by the Slot Machine Association and the European Social Fund, could be rationalised, refocused, coordinated in a new way and ensured that the whole works and that the employment situation improves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u77	Mr President! It is good to continue with what Mrs Katainen has just said. From the eyes of the project workers, we live in a rather crazy world and even crazier Finland, they say. We will soon have the antisocial mass of long-term unemployed who have no confidence in anything. This is precisely what is already visible in the project work. The new legislation on employment services and the changes in the way wage subsidies are granted have taken away all the predictability and tools from employment projects, these project workers say. Even if a job experiment or a pay base is offered, it has even become a lottery in an open labour market. Is it possible to start a work experiment within the framework of the employment plan? Is the applicant's skills gap sufficiently large to provide pay support? What is the amount of the wage subsidy? The decision is in your hands. Thus, employment and related project activities have become a rather unpredictable lottery in which profits are non-existent. At times, it seems that the employment of organisations does not belong to the whole of the services and to the result-based wage system. It is quite clear that no one wins in this game. The te-office is under strain, project workers and employers are being distressed, and the job seeker will be even more able to pass. No one can trust anyone, not himself or each other, and the decisions are delayed. The recipients of negative decisions complain. Yet, seriously, millions will be burned for this useless district game. The second thing I still want to talk about is these cuts in development cooperation and, of course, how we can deal with them as little as possible. The cuts in the development budget are likely to be and remain, but we really should look for internal cutbacks at all costs. For example, it should be possible to look at these issues again within the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It cannot be right for organisations to bear the heavyest responsibility for the cuts and immediately. I cannot believe that all the stones in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have yet to be turned around to ease the situation, and it makes no sense to put an end to what is the rye bread of our development policy: the promotion of the rights of women, children and people with disabilities, the improvement of general living conditions, the building of peace and so on. The foreign aid of the church, for example, is the only organization in the world besides a few UN organisations that Eritrea allows to operate in its own territory. Eritrea is currently one of the countries from which there are huge numbers of refugees to Europe, so if we want to constrain refugees, we should certainly not saw our own branch, that is to say, cut roughly and at once from the organisations that have created systems there, such as Eritrea and other fragile countries, which can help tens of thousands of people. They will then remain empty if this goes so poorly. In addition to the cut-off period, as I have already said, the allocation of emissions trading revenues in this emergency other than climate finance and development cooperation will, of course, further exacerbate the opportunities for organisations to operate. Follow the new surgery cycle and new contraction needs. I do not consider this to be a sensible decision in any way, and I am glad that the Committee on Finance has included in its report that the allocation of emissions trading revenues will be re-evaluated in the autumn. It is exactly as the committee states: Finland must be able to take care of its commitments that have already been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u78	Mr President! The government justifies a strict cut-off line in the economic situation. Yes, the situation is serious and savings must be made. Unfortunately, however, there is a risk that some of these government savings will easily lead to waste, because timing is essential for spending money. In particular, in the run-up to the euro, the best possible value for money must be achieved. Now there is a risk that exactly the opposite will happen in terms of development and employment appropriations. Development cooperation projects, in particular many projects of organisations, may be uncontrollably disrupted by a 40% cut from the beginning of the year. Step-by-step savings would have secured the orderly winding-up of projects and caused less damage. The end result from the savings perspective could have been the same, even better. On the labour side, the government justifies not increasing the employment allocation by means of a technical budget. But this additional budget does not look so technical, because it contains decisions such as Talvivaara and makes a difference between emissions trading revenue and development money. The Minister of Finance said that we need to find out about the adequacy of employment budgets. It is worth looking at the ely offices, the te-offices, the projects and the speeches of the unemployed. In principle, there is some uncommitted money, but in many te-offices, many service centers, that money has been out for a long time. And why did I do that? When this reform, to which Mr Paloniemi referred, was introduced, it was not possible to predict how money would be spent and what amounts of aid would be. And that is precisely why the previous parliamentary committee, among other things, and all the protests, the protests of all the parties, stressed that the additional budget should ensure the adequacy of this money. Now there is a risk that when there is no additional funding in this additional budget and if the next additional budget comes only in the autumn — to which the Minister of Finance did not even promise money for this purpose — it will take time to get them to the airport, and in practice we will be close to Christmas before that money is used, and when it is suddenly and in a hurry, it will not necessarily be the most efficient use. So, what's the consequence of this whole thing? When the appropriations for employment, which can therefore be used for start-up money, the Sanssi card for the employment of young people or the wage subsidy for the unemployed, are exhausted, the practice in living life is that the municipalities are increasingly and more resorting to the use of rehabilitative work — that measure, which is the responsibility of the municipalities rather than labour policy, and which is called the slave work of EUR 9 in the mouth of the people. We know that, in such situations, we are already using over-rehabilitating work when it would be more appropriate to use the wage subsidy. I think that this development from this point of view is very perverse. We have a financial debt, but now there is a threat that we will increase social debt and increase the proportion of structural unemployment that is already too high in Finland. I would then like to comment with a few comments on Mr Paloniemi's speech, even though he has already left the Chamber. That legislative reform that took place last year specifically clarified the criteria for granting pay subsidies. Until now, there have been no clear arguments, but they are now enshrined in the law, and the law defines both the duration of the pay subsidy and its percentage of the salary with very strict criteria. It is a question of the age of a person — for example, young people are treated differently, older people receive that money on different grounds — which is the duration of their unemployment, whether it is a disabled person or a fully capable person, and then the percentage of support is the same for all. Up until now, if we had tried to assess the basis on which anyone receives what kind of support, I dare say that even hard-core professionals could not have always anticipated what that outcome would be. But now it can, because the law is clearer in that sense. But it spends more money because it supports better paid job vacancies with a higher share than before and thus directs more to appropriate support periods than to pay-price support periods. That is why it was the committee that stressed during the previous parliamentary term that an additional budget should monitor whether the money was sufficient or not. Now they are not enough, and it is unfortunate that the Minister for Labour was not here because I dare say that he knew better about this shortage of money than the Minister for Finance or other ministers, for example, whose remit this is not directly related to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u79	Mr President! There has been an enormous amount of talk about employment appropriations and, indeed, this is a problem that we will have to find a solution to in the future. Of course, the problem is particularly serious in the whole country, but structural unemployment still remains in northern and eastern Finland to a very large extent, which absolutely requires measures. But, Speaker, to this Winterfell. When people talk about unemployment, Kainuu is one of the worst unemployment areas in the country. In this context too, we must thank the Government very much for the Winterfell guidelines that have now been adopted in this amending budget as a whole. As the Minister for Industry said here, the government received a very heavy legacy from Winterfell, and it is very important that such large, as long-term measures are now achieved as quickly as possible. There is no doubt that the government is very determined here, and I very much hope that there will now be a stable commercial operator as a result of these various measures, so that Winterfell can move forward and a sustainable solution can be found, both in terms of employment, this company, the regional economy and the water and environmental problems. Knowing what region Winterfell is in, the measure to solve the problems of Winterfell is also extremely important that at the moment some additional clouds are also brought about by Fennovoima’s situation. If a situation does arise that Fennovoima does not find solutions to build Fennovoima's power plant in Northern Ostrobothnia, the situation is really difficult for Northern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u80	Mr President! We are living in a very difficult economic situation and I am sure we would like to give money for all sorts of good things – even today, there are so many good and important things that have already been said in this Chamber. But we now have to think very carefully about what we can give the money, how we can put it, where we can get the most results. The first is jobs and employment and income, where we will get income for Finland in the future, that we will be able to live here in the future. I am best acquainted with the agricultural and forestry sectors, i.e. the functions of the bio-sector. I am very pleased that we have now been able to put the money into a few essential concrete issues that were already well prepared, and that is to say that we know exactly what we can put in order to achieve results. In the case of Kemera in particular, sensible changes, decisions had been made in line with the fact that we would be able to obtain work and activities there on the forest side, on the wood energy side. The issue of wood energy is also something in which we will hopefully achieve a great deal of results during this term of government. Personally, I would have expected that, at this stage, the issue of support for under-productive forests, which was not yet achieved in the January decision, had already been brought to Kemera. But I hope that the process of changing the Kemera legislation has already been put in place and that, since the beginning of next year, we will be able to get this issue of support for under-productive forests, particularly in the regions of Lapland and Kainuu. Agricultural aid issues: Fortunately, they have not been much discussed today, as they are easily perceived as giving subsidies there. It is not a question of extra subsidies, it is a question of keeping to the payment of subsidies and figures that Finland has committed itself to doing and managing. Above all, it is important for farmers to be able to pay subsidies on time. Many farmers today are in a very difficult economic situation. There will be a very difficult situation on many farms next autumn. This is what we need to understand and understand in this house too. Everything we can do to ensure that we do not have any more problems in the countryside must be done; we must do our best to do this. That is why it is good that these specific financial issues were already on the way, that things can be done. Then there has been a lot of discussion on employment issues today. The fact that no more money was put into the employment budget at this stage is, in fact, difficult, but in the sense that it is a good thing that we are actually considering and preparing what needs to be done about this whole. In other words, I believe and hope that we are now working on a bigger process, how we will achieve results on these employment issues, how we will achieve jobs and activities, incomes. Help is needed, but the fact that we are simply blaming money is not enough, we must have the right methods and the right means to take these things forward. Now to this Winterfell thing. Mrs Korhonen has already raised these issues well, and thank you for what is in this regard anyway. This is a big issue, a really problematic issue, which we have to deal with. It has come into our arms, we must take responsibility for it and take care of this Winterfell issue. In the past, the environmental permit has apparently been granted in a small way, it has not been able to take account of all the things that should have been taken into account at that stage, but once this situation has come to pass, we must take measures to do so. The first thing is really to take measures to prevent greater environmental damage that might be coming. But, at the same time, we really need to find out whether there is an opportunity for profitable action. We can't just stop the Winterfell situation, it's a living process that lives, and we have to move on with it now. I believe and hope that it will make a profitable whole yet, but it must be brought to the point as quickly as possible that it can be sold, that we can get it out of the hands of the state and that the environmental problems can now be dealt with in a sensible way. Finally, on these environmental licensing issues. So, as early as the debut stage, I raised the Sokli mining issue. That is why I raised the issue of the Sokli mining issue, because it is currently on the way to an environmental permit issue, and it may be coming up in the next few months with an environmental permit decision for Sokli. Although, in fact, every mine is treated as a matter of its own, I believe and hope that Winterfell has contributed in such a way that this environmental permit can be relied upon to ensure that water impact matters have been properly taken into account then, and then it does not happen that suddenly the Kemijoki goes into a different kind of material than what is intended for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u81	Mr President! It is a very good thing that the government is taking responsibility for this issue of Winterfell and is supporting the fact that profitable business activities can be found in the region and also that responsibility for these environmental issues, which have been the subject of concern, is taken on board. I hope that things will be brought into order — and I believe that they will — in the future. But then to another point, which has been specifically raised today, that is, to these employment appropriations. What is important is to talk about not just the amount, i.e. the budgeted amount, but how to allocate and use these employment funds, pay subsidies and start-up money. Above all, there have been problems with this admission. Companies, municipalities and organisations have had serious difficulties in using the pay subsidy appropriations, since their conditions over the last term of government have guided employment in such a way that unemployment has been prolonged and, in particular, the criteria set for organisations have become stricter. This has particularly caused problems in employment. There has been a need to employ, there have been people who would have liked to be employed, but these criteria have caused difficulties. Since then, the continuation of the start-up grant has created particular difficulties for newly-started and start-up entrepreneurs. For example, in our region, young people who receive the only income from start-up money have been told that only new entrepreneurs and for three months will be able to receive it. This creates problems for those who have already started their business activities, who have relied on the statements made by officials in their plans that it is possible to continue in the same situation. It would therefore be important for those who have already started their business to be able to continue with this start-up money, to be able to continue with it and to take it on a more stable footing and to employ themselves and other workers. This is exactly what our country needs now. But what is most important, of course, is that when money is tight, it is important to think about new, cost-neutral ways of working,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u82	Mr President! The amending budget cuts or removes the money from emissions trading that has been allocated to development aid. I wonder when the Green Left here is taking a hard stand on the fact that this is being cut off now. It's nothing but Finland's debt-taking. Usually the green left has had this kind of way of putting a hand in the pocket of a Finnish entrepreneur and worker. The guy who gets this cake in his pocket, put his hand in his pocket and split it all over the country. Is that how you get the economy right here in northern Finland? I understand that's not the way it's going to come. First you have to get your own cake in order and then when it's all right, you can start sharing, not the other way around. This left-wing style is, of course, familiar from the post-war era, that people are barking, blabbering. Where is the example that it worked somewhere? I've been there for development aid to see what's happened there. The sickle stand has been set up, ideologies have been taken there, and bread has not been put into the mouth of the common people, only the ideology that has now produced disagreements and wars.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u83	Mr President! We are now dealing with the government's proposal for an amending budget. I am well aware of the pain of trying to strike a balance between the scarce euro and the widespread needs. With excitement during this debate, I have been waiting for a positive comment to be made on this proposal. For the new representative, this document is an interesting whole, and perhaps the novelty has led me to look for points that are positive and not just those for which the proposal does not contain appropriations. There are at least a couple of things in the proposal which, in my opinion, indicate better awareness of consumers than expected and the development of consumption towards sustainable development or at least better than expected. Waste tax revenue has been lower than anticipated at the beginning of the year. The EUR 22 million income reduction tells me about more sustainable consumption and increased recycling. Is this my interpretation correct? Another positive aspect relates to biofuels, which have contributed more than expected to consumption. This also reduces the anticipated tax revenue, but I believe that it shows consumer choices in line with more sustainable development. I do not think that the impact of these choices on the future is negligible. Mr President! I wonder if this development is now the fault or merit of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u84	Mr President! I believe that the second draft amending budget for the government and the report from the Committee on Finance, which is now on the table, require a few comments, first of which I would like to draw attention to the issue of government debt. This government proposal will increase the debt to the State by EUR 56 million, and then this means that this year's net borrowing to the State will be just over EUR 5 billion. This figure in itself is appallingly large, and while you still think that at the end of this year the total debt of the state will be EUR 100 billion, there will probably not be a single person in the Finnish Parliament, a single representative who would disagree that this borrowing must be stopped and that we must work towards new growth so that the state's own tax revenue, income and income collected from this nation, will then be covered by the Finnish state budget and not by debt. That is why it is important that the government that has begun its work on this matter is firm and that it should be kept in line, and above all, even though there has now been a debate in this Chamber and almost every possible sin has been brought down on the back of this current government, it must be remembered that this government has only been for a short time, taking up tasks in a situation that is not easy to do. But you don't want to stay in that hole crying, now you have to work. Secondly, there is a lack of employment appropriations, of which many representatives of the opposition have spoken well, although very critical, and the Ely Centres estimate that the need is about EUR 110 million. This is what the government promises to return to during the autumn season in greater detail. This is precisely the key message of this government: we must do everything we need to do, and a little, let us say, we must take a small risk that we can make the reels of our own national economy run much faster. As people are laid off and production falls, exports continue to fall, employment figures are getting worse and can no longer be continued. Thirdly, Winterfell: Mr President, Winterfell is one event among Finnish businesses — very sad in itself that the process was not under control. It is quite right that the Committee on Finance should draw attention to the fact that the intention now is that it will be a letter of intent, the agreement of March 2015, a conditional trade agreement, will be brought to an end and a successor will be brought to an end, and that this process will start to take place and that the State will start to receive tax revenue. Another option, the mine dismantling, must be an option if there is no further action. But it is worth remembering that the Finnish State must do all its own work in such a way that mining is still in place in this country in the coming decades, and above all in such a way that Finland itself invests in mining and that all the benefits will remain in this country. In my opinion, Mr Korhonen spoke well on behalf of Fennovoima. It is precisely that there is a lot of growth potential in northern Finland in connection with the processing of metal, which applies to Raahen Rautaruroruukki, Tornio's Stainless Steel Factory, Boliden's famous melting plant also there on the same Gulf of Bothnia, and all of these need permanent, good electricity production. In today's situation, we should not go into the question of whether electricity is now cheap or expensive. It's cheap. It's on the market. One day this recession will come to an end, and the price of electricity will certainly go up on the market, which means that our own electricity production must be in order, because we are net importers of electricity anyway. I very much hope that Fennovoima will get on its feet and start building up in the Hanhikivi peninsula so that both the metal industry in the north and future mines will get cheap electricity to run their operations there. If we do not take care of the heavy industry in this country, it means that the employment effects of all smaller workshops will not be achieved, because large industries always have different sub-contracting around them and it specifically gives the Finns jobs. I can be a representative of a reasonably good experience here because the Pampalo mine, which was born in Ilomantsi, although it was very small compared to Winterfell, has led to a significant improvement in the employment situation and has created many, many new small companies around its mine. This is the kind of development I would like to see happen in a great many Finnish municipalities, because it creates genuine work and, above all, important livelihoods for people, tax revenue for municipalities and the state, which we need in this painful situation. The economy will not grow if we do not dare invest in Finnish work and business.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u85	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen was able to leave here, but I think that his view is very narrow when he felt that development aid money could in principle be completely stopped, that it would have no effect. If he became acquainted with the achievements of the Church’s Foreign Aid, Fida, Women’s Bank and many other organizations, they have had a very large, good career in employing women and the unemployed in developing countries. The poorest in the world are in real distress at the moment. This is the last piece of information which tells us that yesterday, there were 3,000 refugees coming across the Mediterranean, who were taken from the rubber boats to larger and better ships. This is not the way in which Mr Hakkarainen thinks, for example, that when money is completely cut off and taken care of by himself, then that is how we will be able to deal with this responsibility. It is clear that we must assume our international responsibilities, and in that sense this development aid money is important. In the Committee on Finance, we heard a large number of experts specifically concerning employment. Statistics Finland's latest statistics, which were published this week or at the end of last week, reported that we had 11.8 per cent of the unemployed in May. We asked for written statements from employment and economic development centres across Finland, and everyone became the message that the employment money has run out. I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen that the speech is all right and well supported, but here is the answer to the request for an expert opinion from the North Karelia te-office: the North Karelia te-centre office estimates that employment appropriations will be sufficient until 31 August 2015 and the start-up money, which is important for the start-up of these companies, will end on 31 October 2015. In other words, this concern of the opposition about the employment budget and the proposal for an amending budget to be adopted as soon as possible in early autumn does not conflict with what you have said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u86	Mr President! A few words on those development funds. A year and a half ago, I had the opportunity to take part in a church development mission to Ethiopia. We went there with a few colleagues to see where the Finnish money was spent. The church’s foreign aid was there, and at the same time these state - given development funds were then used in it. Indeed, this money had all gone to a need and a good destination and had made a great deal of progress in general. In particular, in this area of the Bank of Women, results had been achieved, but also in language learning, helping the poorer population, helping sick children — in a wide variety of activities. These projects were really carefully monitored, supervised, controlled projects, and I did think that we in Finland could also monitor the accuracy of many projects in the way they were handled, so that this money was certainly used in the right way. However, it is understandable that we should now have to cut back on these funds as well. Since the economic situation in our country is what it is at the moment, we will have to cut everything. I hope, however, that in future we will be able to give more for these purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u87	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u88	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u89	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u90	Mr President! In this government proposal to amend the Railway Act and the Railway Act, there is a strong question of increasing privatisation and free competition, which I personally do not object to. At the end of the last term of government, Minister of Transport Risikko brought a similar proposal to Parliament. At that time, the motion was put on the table in the Committee on Transport and, on the same grounds, it is still justified. In the spring we left the proposal on the table in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, partly because if this were adopted, Finland would be among the top members of the approvals of the directive. This is not yet widely used in other countries. In fact, there are still Member States that have not even complied with the obligations of the Railway Act of 2003. Finland is therefore not in a hurry on this issue. The EU has not required us to take further action on this issue, so why should we go in Finland in a hurry? The proposal is very problematic, particularly with regard to the state railways. VR’s private tracks are also coming within the scope of the law. This would increase the administrative burden significantly and bring with it many additional tasks, in particular those arising from the accounting separation of services. We know the economic framework in which we live. In the same era, it is not appropriate to increase additional tasks, administration and bureaucracy. This would be reflected in services or in the increase in service costs, as additional resources are always needed for administration and additional tasks. As I said at the outset, little progress has been made in the transposition of the directive at national level in other Member States. We lack comparative information on how other countries will in practice resolve the fact that, for example, the use of passenger stations, marshalling yards, maintenance and other facilities will also be made available to competing companies. Furthermore, the proposal does not include an assessment of the pricing of the use of the infrastructure, which is a very problematic issue, since it is almost impossible for the operator to estimate in advance the future amount of the railway charge. This is an EU-level directive, which Finland must undoubtedly be part of in the future. However, there is still a need for a time-out, an analysis of impact assessments and an expectation of an EU-level regulation. Among other things, these factors must be taken into account in the committee's deliberations and our genuine national interest must be assessed as to the timing of the response to the directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u91	Mr President! Just a few words about this government proposal to amend the Railways Act and the Railways Act. This is a law which was not adopted during the last parliamentary term, and it has now been brought into the referral debate in a hurry before the summer session of Parliament. The content is exactly the same as it was in the proposal submitted to Parliament on 27 November 2014, and it is no secret that we Social Democrats did not want to take the law forward during the last parliamentary term, and I believe that some of the Finns and the Centre Party also represented this same position. All in all, healthy competition is to be welcomed, but Finland will continue to need effective rail transport, and we know of countries in which relatively moderate training has been paid for privatization. I feel that we should avoid them and, most importantly, prevent cream peeling from the transport system, which has, however, been heavily subsidized by public funds, the taxpayers' euro. If, in the context of the referral debate today, we are dealing with an empty gym because the time limit for the introduction of the directive by the Commission was already half-way through this month, I am also wondering — because there is still a situation in many Member States that implementation has not started, and at the meeting of the European Railway Community on 16 June, it has been established that the Commission is still not adopting an implementing act for Article 13 of the Railway Market Directive, because this implementation has not progressed in these Member States. Then, as far as this preparation is concerned: the draft law must be prepared carefully and the impact must be genuinely assessed through these expert consultations, very thoroughly and without haste, despite the Commission's timescales. There are quite a number of issues open: how to levy rail charges and whether, inter alia, additional charges can be charged for infrastructure and environmentally friendly equipment, whether the track manager can increase the track charge in order to build up capital in advance for the improvement of the track, how to ensure the future development of the network and how the change will affect the market access of potential new operators. Here are a few questions that I at least got up to myself. In addition to the network, this includes other services such as railway yards and terminals. There are therefore plenty of questions and issues to be clarified in the autumn committee, and the committee's work on this report, of course, must be done with great care before we are at first or second reading in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u92	Mr President! I believe this previous speech that there are a lot of problems which will then be considered in committee, and then perhaps that lack of implementation by other EU countries is due to just these problems. Personally, however, I believe that the train is heading in the right direction, is moving away from the culture of regulation, although now that we are in the EU, this culture of regulation is, of course, out of control. However, a culture of over-regulation, often represented by the SDP, must be broken down. In this respect, the EU's objective of increasing free competition, including in rail transport, and dismantling monopolies, is quite a goal and a good one. This must take into account the economic aspect of Finland, the national economic aspect, which, at least in theory, is a state monopoly, because it has been maintained for ages. But I would at least pay attention to the interests of consumers in this regard. In the case of public transport, we have now moved on to practices that favour little bus traffic, where bus companies are pricing themselves and competing with this rail transport in such a way that it is not going to succeed. In other words, if there is room on the network, it is in the consumer's interest that this space be used. And when we are constantly calling for these foreign direct investments here in these economic debates to attract investment in Finland, I would like to welcome new players to this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u93	Mr President! It is good to note that the EU in every sector of integration does not in general know how to take into account the specific features of Finland. Finland has long distances, so rail transport is not profitable everywhere in Finland compared to e.g. Belgium, where you can get everywhere by train and every shift is profitable. Finland also has a different climate than many European countries. The EU should not reach the Finnish railways at all. We should not open up internal passenger traffic to new operators. It must be borne in mind that if we open up the railways to competition, there will certainly be new entrepreneurs for the busiest sections of the line. VR has been able to maintain the services of remote areas with the profits of just busier sections of the railway line. If that profit is given to private, probably foreign, companies, VR will not be left behind except for those lines that generate losses. It is important that Finland ensure that rail connections are maintained throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u94	Mr President! I must say, too, that it is at least a small surprise for me that this bill was brought to Parliament overall, at least that it was already brought to Parliament at this stage. We have the situation, as other speakers have already said, that the other Member States of the EU are obviously not very enthusiastic about the implementation of this law, and the consequence of that is that it is a little difficult for us to move this bill forward without knowing how the other Member States are going to implement this legislation overall. This law is being put into effect as soon as possible, but at least I personally see that there is no rush for this Parliament to put this into effect as soon as possible. I think that this should be studied with particular care and assessed how reasonable this is for Finnish rail transport. At national level, this law and bill present a number of problems in relation to, among other things, the existing small private tracks of VR, traffic between Finland and Russia, services and charges for them, accounting separation of service stations, pricing of the use of the network and so on and so on. In other words, I really hope that this will now be dealt with calmly and carefully here in Parliament. This is partly linked, of course, to this competition, but, as we all understand, in Finland, for example, the rail network is very far from being able to operate in this way. It is likely that free tendering would lead to competitors coming to take cream off, and then the question is how to manage the sparsely populated areas of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u95	Mr President! It was a pleasure to listen to two MPs from the government, Timo Korho and Huhtasaar. It saw that there is no government-opposition front in these railway and postal matters in general, but together one wonders which system would be the best for Finland, would secure people's services and the government's income. This proposal, which has now come here, as Mrs Korhonen said, suddenly and suddenly, when it was left on the table last season, tells us that again officials from the Ministry of Transport and Communications are pushing something through, even though the Parliament opposes it. I would therefore like the Committee on Transport and Communications to take a careful look at this matter and take it from the point of view of principle. I've been on VR myself. I have been a train driver and I remember well when VR was incorporated on 1 July 1995, which was probably sensible. At that time, this line fee became available, which means that VR Share Company is now making money into the state treasury. Then I have been involved in the Committee on Transport and Communications in regulating these various directives, the railway package number one. It opened up cross-border international freight transport. Well, Finland did not join because we do not share a railway border with an EU Member State, but because we have a sea between us. That did not cause us any action. Then, in 2007, there was the opening-up of competition in national freight transport, and it was very much sought by industry and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Now we'll see what the situation is. No companies have yet been launched to compete in freight transport in Finland. Where does it come from? It is precisely because of what Mr Korhonen said, that we are a large country, that the population and our volumes are very small. There will be no volumes in freight transport that would be profitable for a new company that should buy locomotives, wagons and all the infrastructure that belongs to it. That is why it has not been born, but we were in the vanguard of the legislation. The third railway package was a good one. There comes consumer protection, as you know today, but the qualifications of the train driver were also recognised at EU level. And now this package of four, which is coming here, is based on safety and the opening of free competition for passenger transport in Finland. It is worth considering now whether, as Huhtasaari also said, we are giving them the opportunity of cream peeling to international, non-Finnish companies, because it is quite clear that in Finland rail transport is not profitable anywhere but here in southern Finland. If we assume that everyone is competing on the free market, who will produce rail services between Ylivieska and Iisalmi, Seinäjoki-Vasa, Kouvola-Pieksämäki-Kajaani, Oulu-KolarijaOulu-Rovaniemi? It is likely that no one will, as VR will no longer have to operate them as unprofitable. In other words, I, and all of me, would like to see good consideration used in the good spirit that has always existed in this Chamber when dealing with fundamental human rights and services, such as social and health care, but also with these basic transport services, such as rail and mail, and finding the right solution across government-opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u96	Mr President! The amendment of the Railway Act and the Railway Act is about the transposition of the EU Railway Market Directive in Finland. There should be no rush here, but you should wait and see how things are going in other EU countries. There is no need for Finland to be a model student here, unless the government has some specific ulterior motives. I listened with joy to what Mr Huhtasaari has just said, and I agree exactly with him. There is no problem in opening up this competition, and that is why it is important to deal with the matter and to require a thorough committee examination and a careful impact assessment. The threat is, among other things, the accumulation of unnecessary administrative work by VR and the refurbishment of private tracks for the use of competitors. This would undermine VR’s ability to perform its service mission for the whole of Finland. The most important thing for people and businesses is that trains stop at stations — unlike us today, for example, in the province of Etelä-Savo — and that journeys and transport of goods are affordable and that the staff are skilled, that the service is good and that it is therefore safe to travel people and goods. The impact of dealing with this issue must be assessed primarily from the perspective of people, employment and tax revenues. A state company has to serve the people, and some people can't just take raisins out of buns with a call for competition. We also need to think more about how to make the tracks serve better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u97	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2015 vp, the amendments to the Protocol amending the Convention will be decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-29-ps-27.u98	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject a draft law the content of which was decided at first reading.
