ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 October 2015. In the course of the debate, Mr Harakka, supported by Mr Pia Viitanen, has tabled two statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to Outi Alanko-Kahiluodon et al. the intermediate question on the impact of government decisions on pensioners. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. The first speaker for the debate is Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Government answer: Minister Mäntylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u4	Mr President! The intermediate issue draws attention to a very important issue: the livelihood of pensioners and, in particular, the position of low-income pensioners. The government is taking this very seriously. Our task is to determine how to ensure the adequacy of pensions and livelihoods in the future and to ensure equal and fair opportunities for secure ageing – including in Finland of the future. Each government must adapt to the current economic situation. It is certainly no surprise to anyone that this government also has to make painful decisions. The Government is committed to meeting the sustainability gap through both savings and structural reforms. The aim is that indebtedness in relation to GDP should be broken by the end of the parliamentary term. Mr President! My parents are 80 on both sides. They have lived in an era during which Finland has waged two heavy wars, paid the war compensations, moved from an agricultural-intensive society to an industrial society, and seen services flourish. Now this generation is facing another transformation. Their generation has laid the foundations of our welfare society. They also lived in the 90s recession of working age, which was strongly reflected in many families. They have always worked hard and grumbling — just as many people today would have done if there were work to be done. I want to thank this generation. I myself belong to a generation that has been privileged in many ways. What about my own children? Our growing young and young adults are not as confident about the future as my generation could have been. What kind of welfare structures do we want to give them? That is what political action is all about. This government wants to make a responsible policy and ensure that the money will continue to be sufficient in the future. We want to restore the faith of young people in the future and in the fact that the prosperity created over the decades lasts and that working is also the way to achieve the security of old age. We must ensure that there is enough work and careers for people of all ages, through which we also create opportunities to earn a pension. The Government’s objective is therefore to raise Finland’s economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment. The funding of public services and social security must be secured. In this way, we can continue to have strong infrastructure that secures the conditions for life even when life does not go as it would wish or when something unexpected happens. Man’s life cycle is never the same for everyone. If we do not now make these necessary reforms, including severe cuts, they will be many times worse for us. We cannot continue an endless cycle of debt and leave such a burden to the next generations. That is simply not an opportunity for responsible politicians. No matter how hard it is to make decisions. Mr President! The income level enabled by basic security is the Western European average in Finland. The most low-income pensioners receive a guarantee pension. The Government will improve their situation by increasing the guarantee pension by about EUR 20 per month. In addition, the change to the public service tax excludes everyone who receives a mere guarantee pension or a national pension. It should be noted that not all pensioners are old-age pensioners either. It is also important to invest in ensuring that no one retires prematurely due to a reduction or loss of working capacity. We respond to this, for example, through a comprehensive reform of the rehabilitation legislation. The Government's top project, which promotes the employment of part-time workers, also plays a major role. The Government’s aim is to strengthen people’s independent survival, to increase the opportunities for their own life choices and to reduce their dependence on various income transfers. This is done, for example, by improving the capacity of disabled entrepreneurs and by removing incentives for disability pensions and earned income. In addition to these actions, the Government's key projects include a number of priorities for the overall promotion of well-being and health and the reduction of inequalities. We are launching a national programme to promote mental health and prevent loneliness. We will also report on the role of those living alone in society. All of these also apply to pensioners. It is also worth pointing out in this debate that pensioners, in particular, are at high risk of poverty. This has been addressed too little over the years in gender equality policy. Women's pensions are smaller than men's pensions. This is the result of many aspects of working life: pay differentials, career breaks, career development, family leave. All of this must be influenced during working hours by a more even distribution of family leave, by promoting wage equality and by reducing labour market segregation. In fact, I challenge myself not only through my own administration but also other key actors and influences, including all parliamentary parties. Mr President! The Government's proposal to combine housing allowance for pensioners with general housing allowance is coming before Parliament. One of the objectives of combining housing benefits is to clarify the basis for determining social security and the whole of housing allowance schemes. Combining housing benefits puts all low incomes on a fair equal footing with housing allowance. With the change, about one third of those living in relatively low-cost dwellings will increase their support. Therefore, the most low-income pensioners will also benefit most from the change. Transferring pensioners to the general housing allowance will reduce the subsidy by around 70%. The impact of the change in individual cases depends mainly on the income of the pensioner, housing expenditure and the municipality group in which the dwelling is located. When the law enters into force, the Government will protect pensioners receiving housing allowance from excessive situations by means of transitional provisions and the so-called ‘security component’. The beneficiary has a transitional period of at least six months to facilitate adaptation to the new level of aid. As a result of the protection component, the level of housing allowance may fall by up to EUR 60 per person per month even after the transition period. The benefit is intended to be paid for a maximum period of 10 years or until the level of the general housing allowance reaches the level of the protected support. I would also like to point out that even more important than subsidies is the objective of affordable housing costs for people. Mr President! The reduction in the national pension index next year will be based directly on the law in force. There is therefore no separate law amendment or other decision in the background. The indices are influenced, among other things, by food and fuel prices, which have fallen. In practice, the decrease will result in benefits linked to the National Pensions Index falling by no more than a few euros per month. However, the Government has decided to implement separately the increases in the amount of the guarantee pension and the basic income support, which means that the amount of these benefits will not be reduced even if the index falls. However, even if the social and health care services' customer fees increase, the increases do not apply to payments for long-term institutional care, service housing and regular home-based services. In order to prevent excessive costs, a ceiling has been defined by law, which secures the position of those who use a large number of services. Mr President! The aged are not a united group. Even the needs of support or care are not the same. Elderly people should not be seen as passive recipients of different measures. There are increasing numbers of active actors who feel that they are living in many ways even the best time of their lives. We want to safeguard a valuable old age for all, which takes account of individual needs. The focus of elderly care has long been on the abandonment of institutional care and the extension of home-based services. Increasing the freedom of municipalities to operate improves the ability of municipalities to develop new forms of service in order to enable them to live at home. In order to improve the living conditions of older people, we also work closely with ministries across borders. New forms of service also need to be developed between home-based services and long-term institutional care. Personnel need to be more flexible in line with customer needs. This also ensures that there is an opportunity for the elderly to have a genuine presence. The Government invests strongly in the development of informal care and family care and in supporting the housing of the elderly at home. The aim is to achieve more equal services. The system of services provided to older people will be reformed by creating timely and seamless services that meet their needs. The Government has earmarked a total of EUR 30 million for this. The performance of carers and family carers and the development of home services will also be supported by significant permanent increases in appropriations: from 2019 onwards, they will amount to around EUR 100 million per year. Mr President! In 2013, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together with the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, issued a quality recommendation to ensure good ageing and improve services. The quality recommendation will be amended so that in enhanced service housing and old-age homes, the absolute minimum number of staff would be between 0.4 and 0.5 per capita, instead of the current minimum of 0.5. However, the change does not apply to the wards of health centres. In addition, it will allow staff to be counted more extensively than before. The implementation of the Old Age Services Act has also been monitored systematically. Here too, the whole and the individual needs of older people should be seen. Responding to them with quality, a human touch and respect for valuable old age is much more than walls or decimals. Mr President! As with the previous government, savings in health care payments must continue to be made in order to balance central government finances. Changes in the reimbursement of medicines coming into effect from the beginning of the year will increase patients' responsibilities. At the same time, however, the price of certain medicines will be reduced and the cost of medical treatment for those in need will therefore be reduced. No changes are made to the annual cap on pharmaceutical costs. Mr President! When making savings decisions on large, many benefits, it is almost inevitable that some households will lose more than others. In cases where income is seen to be compromised, customer charges can be moderated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u9	The Council of Presidents has also made it absolutely clear to the members of the Government that the maximum amount of speech by the members of the Government is 15 minutes. Let this be said once again, and then let us stick to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u10	Mr President! We have a government that does not care to carry out proper investigations into the consequences of its decisions. Ordering the calculations remains the responsibility of the opposition. I asked the Parliamentary Information Service to find out how the government’s actions affect the income of pensioners. I received the calculation yesterday, and it is chilling to read: the government is pushing tens of thousands of low incomes below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u15	We shall now move on to group speeches, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u16	Mr President! Finland must be put in good shape. It is up to our decision-makers to seek solutions to common problems. We will not succeed by scaring or pitting Finns against each other. First, we need to put people to work and put an end to their debt. We are now forced to live once and for all, with our mouths full of sacks. A balanced economy will safeguard basic services that are important to older people and will take care of the weaker in our society in the future. This is what Sipilä's government's policy is for. In one way or another, decisions are directed at all Finns. This was emphasised by the Centre even before the parliamentary elections by saying that the parliamentary term will not be easy, but this will also survive. Many other European countries have had to and will have to make much more painful decisions. Understandably, many Finns are concerned about their own and their loved ones, but we cannot fail to do so. The bill for our children and grandchildren will be untenable if this debt continues. A balanced economy is also a real security for current and future pensioners. Mr President! Labour market organisations are currently negotiating to improve Finland’s competitiveness. The agreement can achieve the most equitable result for all Finns. Improving competitiveness is a prerequisite for new jobs. Now, if ever, the labour market organisations are extraordinarily advocacy. Finland must be reformed. The reform of social welfare and health services in the whole country will ensure, for example, social and health services that are very important to pensioners and that serve as local services. We have to get to the doctor faster in the future, and people have to stop bouncing around. In addition to good care, everyone must be guaranteed humane care. The focus on services is increasingly shifted to home care rather than institutional care and is timely in supporting people's self-activity and well-being. Finally, as proposed by the Centre, family care and family care will be improved. The guarantee pension for pensioners with lower incomes was created at the initiative of the city centre. Now the guarantee pension is being increased. In addition, some 300,000 Finns are fully exempt from the Yle-tax. Of them, about 120,000 are among the lowest income recipients, who receive a guarantee or national pension alone. And a lot of them are women. Mr President! Especially in times of difficulty, decisions must be made as fairly as possible. The Sipilä government does not raise VAT because it would be the hardest hit people on low incomes. Instead, the governments of the previous parliamentary term under the leadership of the SDP increased VAT and other equal taxes. In addition, they cut the central government co-financing from the municipalities for the services of pensioners and other Finns. As I have already said, The Sipilä Government, on the other hand, invests in services. So politics has changed. Over the past few months, I and other representatives of the city centre have received a great deal of contact with the housing aid of pensioners. These surgeries hurt. That's what I'm openly admitting. The housing allowance will therefore not be abolished, but will change its shape when pensioners move into the general housing allowance in the future. Pensioners now receiving housing allowance will be provided with a protective component in the reform. This will ensure that the situation of low-income pensioners — and especially the lowest-income women — does not materially deteriorate. Mr President! There are about 1.5 million pensioners in Finland. I was the last one to see pensioners in Jokiois on Monday. On the basis of these discussions, too, I dare say that they understand the seriousness of Finland’s problems better than many of us in this Chamber. Like other Finns, they now expect solutions from us decision-makers. They themselves are also prepared to make difficult decisions as long as they are made fairly. They are also ready and want to leave Finland in a better condition for their children and grandchildren. Now they expect our decision-makers to cooperate and put the common interest before their own interests. These expectations are justified. Today's generation of pensioners has built the well-being that we have enjoyed for a long time through their hard work over the years. Although the situation in Finland is serious and our economy has been reduced by several billions of euros, we must not forget the builders of our country in this situation either. It is now our duty to secure a reasonable income for the generation of builders, pensioners, and the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u17	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This interim issue and the protest organised by the Pensioners' Confederation the other week will hit an important point. It is right and fair that those who work for this society all their lives can count on them to be taken care of after retirement. Society must look after its citizens. Mr President! In 1995, the Social Democratic Lipponen government did pensioners a disservice by setting a folded index. This decision was taken by a large number of current opposition parties. The index has cut down labour pensions and the purchasing power of pensioners in several years, and no government wanted to change the index in the upturn period after the recession of the 1990s in order to improve the position of pensioners. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where the economy is in recession and the resources are not sufficient to correct the shortcomings. Nor should it be forgotten that the Social Democratic First Government of Lipponen made cuts to the lower part of the national pension and Lipponen's second government cut it out completely. The cuts in the lower part of the national pension were the most punctuated by the pensions of teachers, health care staff and cleaners. Contrary to general misconception, the policy of the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens has not been pro-retirement. The guarantee pension was also obtained only after these parties were in opposition in 2011. The guarantee pension entered into force in March 2011 with the Government's proposal of 50/2010, concerning the guarantee pension, and the SDP and the Left Alliance objected to it. Mr President! We Finns are in government for the first time, and one party cannot correct all the wrongs that have been done over the years. The situation is compounded by the fact that incapacitated governments in recent years neglected the management of our country's economic situation, which led Finland to sink even deeper into economic discipline. Even though the present government is making great efforts to change the course, the changes will still be slow. Our aim is to use strict economic policy to save our welfare society and to put our country's economy in such a condition that we can continue to look after the welfare of the people as a whole in the future. However, an additional burden on the economy is the loose immigration policy pursued by previous governments and the cold-blooded violation of international agreements by other European countries. When the internal borders of Europe have leaked like a sieve and some of the countries — up to Sweden — have even led refugees to Finland, it is clear that Finland’s costs of the refugee crisis will increase. In a situation where citizens' benefits have to be cut and, at the same time, more debt is taken to cover the costs of asylum seekers entering the country, many citizens do not believe that this right will be fulfilled. The situation in this respect is unsustainable. Mr President! Is it right for Finnish society to squawk about its alliances because previous governments have neglected the management of the country's economy, have had an excessive immigration policy or that other EU countries are violating the agreements that have been concluded together? Of course, it is not right, and that is why basic Finns work hard in the government. We will turn every stone that can be translated so that the well-being of our citizens can be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u18	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u19	Honorable Speaker! The humanity and civilisation of society are measured by how we treat the elderly, the people who built this well-being Finland and who need care. A safe everyday life, well-functioning services and a decent living income are the right of everyone in Finland. Neither the coalition nor the government are compromising on these values. The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party is working to secure a good and dignified life for every person. The tough economic situation is the reality that requires difficult decisions, within which this work must succeed. Many of the everyday challenges of elderly people and those in need of care have become familiar with the care of the elderly. More speed is needed to solve the shortcomings of assistance and services, which is why the Government’s top project is to develop home care for older people and strengthen informal care. Instead of existing, often fragmented home care, a complete set of human needs will be built and new forms of community housing will be created. There must be genuinely achievable alternatives for institutional care and for reluctant living at home. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Dear Speaker, Small-Federal : Your microphone has fallen away. [Canslia assistant visiting the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u22	Mr President! Retired people affect our society as a whole. We would not be able to do without grandparents’ help with childcare or the voluntary work of pensioners. Pensioners help their neighbours, participate in friendly activities and run a wide range of voluntary activities. Elderly people and pensioners are a huge resource and deserve our full appreciation. But how is this reflected in government politics? There's no way. The government treats pensioners unfairly and targets excessive cuts and extortions in their daily lives. The government cuts the income of pensioners and daily services in many ways. Many elderly people have come from me in recent days to ask me how you are doing in this area, when in the future the money will not even be enough to cover the necessary expenses. It is inhuman that a person should choose whether to buy food or medicine. By government decisions, many low-income pensioners are driven to customers of long-term income support. Pensioner poverty threatens to grow and deepen. The economic situation in Finland is, of course, serious, but it will not be improved by undermining the livelihoods of the most vulnerable people. Perhaps the brunt of the government's actions is the abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners, which reduces housing support from up to two out of three beneficiaries. Separate housing support schemes have been able to take account of the specific characteristics of the beneficiary groups. They're trying to soften the operation with a protective part, but it's going to be cosmetic. In addition, the new beneficiaries will be directly covered by the general housing allowance without any protective components. At their worst, cuts of more than EUR 200 per month would apply immediately. Despite the protection component, the reduction in the level of housing allowance may force the search for cheaper housing, and especially in the major cities the opportunities for cheap housing are very limited. Prime Minister, with its decisions, the government is causing pensioners enormous anxiety about how they will fare in the future and whether they will be able to live in their familiar home any longer. The government, in its most cost-effective way, has not taken any account of the human affairs of everyday life. Mr President! The Government will also reduce the quality and availability of services. Lowering nursehood is the peak of grossness. How low is the government’s idea of what a decent life is like? The government is now sending a clear message that the treatment has been too good, you can treat less. Professionals say that the size of 0.4 means basically eating, going to the bathroom and washing once a week. Is this the government's view of human dignity and respect for human dignity? Is this how you, Prime Minister Sipilä, show your appreciation to Finnish elderly people? Good and rehabilitative care for the elderly requires three things: the right attitude, skilled and skilled staff and adequate resources. Now the government takes the resources, weakens the qualifications and scales, and the savings are also very questionable, because if there is no skill or time to do rehabilitation care, people will be deprived of their ability to function and be made bed-patients. With its policies, the government is putting the whole future of the social and health sector at risk, because professionals do not want to work against their professional ethics. At the same time, the government is pushing through forced labour laws a wide range of pressures that weaken working conditions, which also make everyday work more difficult. Mr President! The government disciplines pensioners by cutting benefits and compensations, increasing customer fees and weakening services. But this is not enough either. In addition, the government intends to make the taxation of pensioners worse than that of employees so that the average monthly pension of EUR 1500 is paid to a person who receives less than EUR 20 per month than to a person who receives the same salary income. That's 250 euros a year. Just before the elections, Mr Stubb, the Minister of Finance, said that taxes must be fair and that 'our basic philosophy is that pensions cannot be taxed any harder than work, i.e. pension tax and labour tax on the same line'. People feel that such treatment and false promises are unfair. It seems that the government does not give a damn about the fairness of taxation. It is not right for the government to dismantle a jointly built welfare society. Mr Government, people deserve to be treated with dignity at all stages of life. Mr President! The Social Democrats support the motion of censure against the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u23	Mr President! The question of the impact of government decisions on pensioners has been left out because justice and fairness appear to have been forgotten by the government in this matter. We strongly doubt that the government knows what it's doing. The Government has not explained the impact of its plans on thousands of Finnish pensioners, their families, family carers and healthcare workers who care for the elderly. We Greens consider it fair, fair and good principles and decision-making, in which the stronger defend the weaker, do not trample them down. Efforts should be made to reduce poverty and inequalities in society, not to increase them. Pension beneficiaries include not only elderly people but also those who are unable to work because of illness or disability, and those who are partially able to work, the lowest incomes of which, when the government's proposals are implemented, are subjected to severe cuts, many different routes at the same time. Mr President! The government is directly undermining the livelihood of low-income pensioners. When the housing allowance for pensioners is combined with the general housing allowance, the amount of the housing allowance will decrease in households of low-income beneficiaries by around 70%. In the same context, a protective component will be introduced, allowing housing allowance to fall by a maximum of EUR 60 per month. Sixty dollars a month — that much in the aid reform will lose nearly 100,000 pensioners. When a low-income pensioner receives a pension of less than EUR 1000 per month, as about one quarter of the 1.5 million pensioners in Finland do, or if the income is less than EUR 500 per month, as is the case with over 13000 pensioners, it sounds like a pretty large amount of money from that point of view, Mr Government. It is also worth noting that the new housing allowance decisions will be made without this EUR 60 component. This puts people in a very unequal position. What can we conclude from this? At least, there will soon be a very high demand for affordable housing in the country. Is the government doing something about it? No, no, no. Mr President, the government! For pensioners, the use of health services is abundant. When the government cuts the reimbursement of medicines by EUR 50 million and increases the responsibilities of medicines, it also weakens the ability of low-income pensioners to care for their health. We ask: Has the government estimated the cost of care for those who fail to use their medicine because of their difficulties in living? Will such cuts help the country’s economy? Low-income pensioners spend every penny on living, medicine, food, on the very most necessary cost of living. Cutting these people's economies won't save the country's economy. Pensioners who need medical care in sparsely populated areas, in other words in rural areas, should also be allowed to pay for treatment on behalf of the government in the future, because travel expenses will be reduced by EUR 25 million. However, it may not be possible for the most low-income people to afford the service they need, since social welfare and health care fees will be increased. All of this is driving tens of thousands of pensioners below the poverty line, even though the lowest-income ones are already holding out as best they can. This isn't right. The hardest hit is experienced by those who enjoy minimal national pension, usually women. Compared to men, there is a considerable risk of poverty among women. However, the weakest justification lies in the fact that the government intends to further reduce the size of care providers for the elderly and suggests that a smaller number of hand pairs will suffice. We do not believe this. We believe in the numerous expert assessments that it is not possible to do decent, quality care work in 24-hour care for the elderly with any less human resources. Fewer people are unable to handle everyday matters, but it is up to the nurses to think about what is left to do. How can the rehabilitation and humane treatment of the elderly be maintained? Mr President! We want answers from the government on the question of how we can ensure the livelihood of low-income pensioners in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u24	Mr President! The current government makes a lot of bad surgical decisions. The education system is being scrapped, unemployed, low incomes, women, students and families with children are being cut. Nevertheless, it must be said that the way the government treats pensioners is the most unfair. According to calculations, as a result of government cuts, at least 27,000 pensioners fall below the poverty line. This is a really big crowd. Is it really the fact that more and more people are being driven to the income support hatch to solve the problems of central government finances? Many surgeries coincide with the same person. The abolition of housing allowance for pensioners, the reduction of medical and travel allowances, the increase in social and health care charges and the reduction in the number of carers further undermines the livelihood and quality of life of many pensioners, as stated in the intermediate question. Mr President! Before the elections, most Members of Parliament at the time and today promised that low incomes would not be cut off. Prime Minister Sipilä promised that the level of support for pensioners would not be cut by one cent. Timo Soini promised that people who make less than 1000 euros a month will not be cut. I very much hope that those Members of Parliament who made such promises will now feel pricked in their hearts and withdraw these outrageous decisions. The government has also announced that it will invest in support of informal care, so that an elderly pensioner, for example, can live at home for as long as possible. Unfortunately, the abolition of housing allowance for pensioners may significantly weaken the conditions for informal care when you can no longer afford to live at home. Mr President! The cuts made by the government to pensioners are going to be very much feedback, and there is a real need. What to say to a woman who suffers from many diseases, who receives about 750 euros a month, who writes: "I am currently living a mentally heavy, marginalised and limited life. I feel like I'm in a perfect prison, alone and abandoned." Or what to say to a mother who is concerned about her young, disabled daughter, who asks, "What happens to her self-esteem when she cannot afford to engage, travel or live?" The government already had to mitigate its original plan to cut the housing allowance when it became clear how severe the cuts would have been. As the feedback suggests, the planned monthly cut of EUR 60 is big money for many low-income pensioners, especially when it comes to other cuts. Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä has stated on several occasions that the government is forced to cut in order to raise the Finnish economy. This has clearly been the government's line. However, the Prime Minister does not say that all surgical decisions are based on a choice of values. You don't have to cut off the lowest income. This has also been noted by experts who do not seem to be listened to by this government. The expert reports state that the savings and cuts decided by the government are directed specifically at the weakest groups without political influence. It looks the same as it did in the 1990s. In addition, the combined effect of savings is more often difficult for the most vulnerable. Mr President! Indeed, the government does not seem to know or care what the combined effects of its cuts are. Prime Minister Sipilä has also said that reforms will be carried out first and then the impact will be assessed. I find this order absolutely incomprehensible. However, on the basis of the feedback I have received, I can tell you what the effects of the cuts will be in the lives of many pensioners. They're gonna be dramatic. I support the motion of censure by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u25	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! Det är fundamentalt viktigt att få drunk trygghet i sin vardag. Det är läs så viktigt att below Människor kan lita på att det finns nätverk som tar hand om en när man blir äldre och krafterna inte mera räcker till. Ingen ska behöva gå omkring och vara rädd för att den inte har råd att köpa den medicin den behöver. Vi vet alla att först då blir följderna verkligt dyra för samhället, om inte människor har råd att sköta om sin grundläggande älsa. Ingen ska Heller behöva reserve orolig för sitt boende till följd av att staten skär ned på pensionärnas bostadsbidrag. Därför kommer svenska riksdagsgruppen i sin alternativa budget som presenteras i november att kräva att pensionärernas bostadsbidrag hålls intakt och att anslaget ökas med 65 million euro.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u26	Mr President! When I listened to Minister Mäntylä’s reply there, I got sad in some way, for the government seems to be very considerate, cold, determined and aware of where these measures are going. The cold winds are blowing now. Mr President! The Christian Democrats want to build a new rise in Finland, but not at the expense of low-income pensioners. The government’s proposal takes away some of their bread, then a slice of their living, and eventually some of the medicines are cut off. This is not fair, not fair, not measured by any measure, not covered with a productivity target. It's just not right. The Christian Democrats are calling for cuts to be refocused on pensioners in a way that guarantees pensioners the opportunity to grow old with dignity. The budget proposal now leads to the emergence of bread lines in the footsteps of many pensioners. Mr President! It's sick to spare a sick person. The government wants to cut the reimbursement of medicines with a very strict hand, as much as EUR 50 million. The customer fees and travel expenses of social welfare and health services also rise. The government cuts the housing allowance for pensioners, and at the same time the prices of housing are rising. The equation is completely impossible for many low-income pensioners. A lot of people have to move out of their own home. When all the austerity measures are taken into account, the increase in the guarantee pension proposed by the government has suddenly been taken into account. Cutting off the medicines and bread of a sick elderly person leads to premature long - term care, and it will cost many times as much as these savings. There are also concerns about the government's intentions to reduce the staffing levels of elderly services and to reduce the qualifications of carers. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the human resources and care of elderly services must be brought to the level that the decision-makers themselves would like to be old. That's where the old age over the years comes up for us too, for some sooner, for others later, but it does. Decent old age can only be guaranteed by a sufficient number of caring hands. In its alternative budget, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament is proposing to cancel the cuts in the reimbursement of medicines and to reduce the cap on the payment of medicines, to maintain the housing allowance for pensioners and to increase the guarantee pension — and all this without additional debt, because it is important for us too that the country's economy be put in order. It is a question of prioritising: what are the values on which we are acting as decision-makers? Mr President! The central government's most significant value barometer is its budget. That is where we value the citizens and the services and the relationship between them. If we value only a strong economy, it will lead to less human beings in decision-making in practical solutions. Looks like it's gonna happen now. We need a voice of conscience in the decision-making process. Mr President! We are living in a strong economic downturn and a change in working life and we need more efficient practices. However, efficiency must not only be based on the values of the economy, but must be accompanied by a human perspective. Well, well-being doesn't just mean euros in the cash register. Well-being means happy, well-being people. It would not be wrong, even if the last line in the state budget were required by a nation who was treated humanly. Mr President! We must never lose sight of this objective. Have people been cared for and well - being in such a way that a good and rewarding life is guaranteed — even when they are unable to demand and stand up for themselves? The decision maker can only be satisfied when the answer is yes. Mr President! On these grounds, the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group considers the interim issue to be justified and justified. I support the proposal made by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u27	Now there's the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in it to stand up and press the V button. This debate starts with Minister Mäntylä 3 minutes and Minister Rehula 2 minutes, either from the seat or the toilet, and then we go to the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u28	Mr President! I thank you for these good and critical group speeches. There was a lot of such content with which every responsible politician, I'm sure, is in the government or opposition, with these questions and considerations you have to spend quite a bit of your time when you are in a situation where you are aware of the economic situation and the room for manoeuvre in which this government is currently forced to do the work. Those decisions are not easy. There, I am sure, every responsible politician who has made these various savings decisions in his day will have to have hard discussions of values with himself, and that is how it should be. But when there is a government policy and there is an objective to be pursued, which I pointed out in my introductory speech, that we have the structures of society and of the welfare society in order, unfortunately, it sometimes means very painful decisions that we just have to adapt to. Good things were raised in these various speeches. Unfortunately, I may not be able to take a position on this timetable, but Mr Laukkanen's speech has just pointed out that well-being and a decent life are much more than euros. And that is precisely what this government, through all these various measures, is trying to achieve, that we have the opportunity to create such structures and systems, which, for their part, will strengthen the experience of its decent life. We must also have such a service system and an environment where every ageing and elderly person is also seen as an individual, that they are not just such a mass to which we direct all the measures from above, but we also appreciate their individual experiences of their needs or wishes. Well, there's another thing I'm gonna bring up here: When, for example, these mental health workers, who are many people with disability pensions, were raised here, it is now the government’s intention, with this top project for the part-time workers, to have a genuine opportunity to find employment in what they themselves feel possible. So we have a lot of people who are able to work, some of whom are mental health workers. There's a lot of other people there, but there's no way for them to get to work. Through their work and their involvement in society, they can also increasingly influence the decision-making and self-determination that leave the country for financial security, and the less so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u29	Mr President! Security and a sense of security is one of the most important things and a prerequisite for living at home: a sense of security in a situation where one’s own powers are not enough or a situation arises in life that requires another’s help, that help is available, a sense of security that the life management exists, that the food is warm and that the roof is on top of the head. A sense of security consists of a number of things — things that the government is actually trying to influence so that the conditions for living in the home of as many older people as possible are met and are being supported. The question was whether the government was going to moderate the decisions it had taken. Case number one: Group speeches said out loud that the support system for informal care would not be as attractive as it is now. On the contrary, the few issues on which this government is investing new money will be the development of a support system for informal care in order to make it more attractive — genuinely that option. Surviving a carer, fostering services or the services that a carer needs in a situation where the carer himself needs rest — this is a concrete example to be invested in. Second, living at home: The goal is to reverse the ideology of living at home so that living at home is a priority. And the feeling of security that the services are built around living at home, revolutionizes, turns the whole chain so that being at home is the most important thing. Mr President! To make it more reasonable: the cuts that have been made and are about to be presented must:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u30	Mr President! Representative Sarkomaa said that society’s culture is measured in its care for the elderly. Well, that's what worries me. The government's statements have been falsques and pharisees. Parliament's information service has dropped that you will increase the number of people falling below the poverty line by tens of thousands. Of people aged 65 or over, 27,000 to 33,000 fall below the poverty line because you freeze the pension index and because you deprive pensioners of the current housing allowance. In addition, people of working age but on disability pension will come. And in addition to this, there will be a medical and travel allowance cut, which could not be taken into account yet, because there is no proposal for it. The truth is, you're going to add at least like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u31	Mr President! The government disciplines pensioners by cutting benefits, increasing fees and reducing services. With these measures, the government will consciously increase the poverty of pensioners and reduce opportunities for human life. People are rightly concerned and even afraid of their future. The sense of security mentioned by Minister Ruhula has now disappeared. But this too is not enough: the government is tearing down the tax gap between employees and pensioners. This is neither fair nor fair. My question is: Is this how the government shows its appreciation for Finnish pensioners? How does the government intend to correct the unfair tax treatment of pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u32	Mr President! Listening to the debate here reminds me of the fact that I wonder if what has happened in the last parliamentary term has now been forgotten. It usually doesn't help much when you look back, but now you have to deal with it just a little because quite a few of these things that are now being taken forward have already been on the list of the previous government — even if you take the reimbursement of medicines and so on. But what I think is most important is that we now find solutions together to ensure that, after these solutions, what we are doing does not result in what the opposition is now describing. In other words, follow closely what these effects are and address the fact that people do not fall below the poverty line. Perhaps in this debate, what Mr Ruhula has just said has really been forgotten: that we should now shift the focus to home care - family care, family care - which is different from the situation we are currently experiencing when we have a very institutionalised form of care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u33	Mr President! At this point in the debate, I would like to repeat the last sentence of my own speech. It actually tells us what the government's will is in this matter. I quote myself: "No one is left to their own devices. Everyone is taken care of, including pensioners." This is the big picture of the government. I understand that the opposition is exaggerating, exaggerating things, but the facts have to be taken up. In this speech Mr Pekonen said in his own speech a phrase like this: 'the abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners'. The government is not about to abolish the housing allowance for pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u34	Mr President! May I say to Mr Turuse that, yes, the pensioner's housing allowance will be abolished, but will be replaced by a general housing allowance which no longer treats pensioners as well as this original housing allowance. But, Mr Mäntylä, in your speech you drew attention to the fact that women receive less pay and less pensions than men. You said that all of this should be done by working time, for example by sharing family leave more evenly. That is what we warmly agree with in the Left Alliance. However, we have to wonder where your initiatives on these issues of equality are, while up until now, your measures have been mainly aimed at reducing equality. You also said that if these reforms and difficult cuts are not made now, then even worse will be ahead. But, Minister, the policy that you are pursuing leaves behind a huge one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u35	Mr President! "We have a million people in the Finnish You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, So said Timo Soini in January, January of this year. I repeat, Minister Mäntylä: 'You cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate from that group.' And now that you are saying that there is no other option here than to take away the housing allowance for these less-income pensioners, but it does not make it hard for the government to put 200 million dollars in the car tax rebate, 40 million in the tax reduction on inheritances or 100 million in the Farm Development Fund, these are value choices. What do you say to pensioners whose housing allowance will be cut by EUR 18 million next year? By amending only a small part of these decisions which
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u36	Mr President! Now that we have been having this discussion point-by-point on various cuts for several weeks, I see that there is a pattern here. At each cutting point, the opposition complains that why this is the case, or why this is the case this week, with careful care never to mention what it would be appropriate to do. And when this happens week after week, Real rudeness, when there has already been talk of grossness here today, would be not to act. This government is working. And yes, it may be a shame for each of us, because everyone has to participate, but it is the only way forward from this economic crisis that this government is facing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u37	Mr President! The Parliament Group of the Coalition Party wants to find a solution to the fact that pension provision is enough to allow every Finn to live a life of his own, regardless of illness or age. It must be said honestly that a responsible policy cannot be made unless we also make painful decisions. We would not be in such a difficult situation if it had not happened that, under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Finance, there were major structural reforms and many things that would have contributed to a better situation. Now we have to make these decisions. But we also want to save the services. Elderly people expect to reach health centers in time. This government is doing a social welfare reform. The national informal care development programme was left in a drawer, and now a strong value selection is being invested, EUR 95 million in informal and home care. We're doing the best we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u38	Mr President! Indeed, the government is now cutting off the income of pensioners. You can't make that black guy white with any talk. But the government will also tax pensioners harder than ordinary employees in the future, and at the same time the government will raise health and service charges, which will also target sick and low-income people. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Mäntylä in particular, could you tell me what I am telling you, I say, I will answer to those women who receive a ton of pensions a month, those who live alone, who come to me in the marketplace face-to-face to ask me how they will be able to live in the future when the housing allowance is cut, when the payments go up, the money does not want to be enough for medicines, let alone for food or decent income? Can you tell me what I'm gonna say to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u39	Mr President! Last season, when the Greens and left-wing parties were in the government, income differentials were reduced and the number of poor people reduced. This government, with all its efforts so far, has only increased income disparities and increased the number of poor. Most pensioners are in a position not to be able to work a day. Minister Mäntylä, there is absolutely no point in talking about you wanting pensioners to work and thus improve their position. Most pensioners are unable to do so. You say beautifully that you are going to improve the chances of working for part-time people. At the same time, you are going to cut sickness allowance for people who are now sick and are still in work. They're the ones you're going to take early retirement, you're going to shorten their careers, and you're going to reduce their pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u40	Värderade Talman! I vårt goda land brode vi klara av att fatta sådana beslut som äns rättvisa, och nu är det alldeles uppenbart att när det gäller pensionärernas ställning så änns inte de rai besluten rattvisa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u41	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I find it very special that our Prime Minister is not here to listen to this debate on the interim issue. As far as this debate is concerned, I would very much like to say, Minister Mäntylä, when you said that the government has the will and the ability to look far away, that you would now look a little closer and hear the cry of people who are really in trouble because of your unsustainable cuts, they are now targeting the same people from many directions. Since reference has now been made to the issues of the last period, it must be said that last season there was an old-age service law, last season a comprehensive development programme for informal care, last year a social welfare model was introduced to this Chamber for the first time for discussion, which we hope will now be further developed. I find it extraordinary that the assembly of its own prime ministers here should complain with such speeches, that nothing has been done in the previous period, especially since you yourself have been
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u42	Mr President! Minister Mäntylä said that we should tackle gender poverty, especially for poor pensioners. I couldn't agree more. But when I think about the speech and the appeal, I thought that if Mr Soini had been here to listen to this debate about pensioners, he would probably have thought that it was a Pharisee. If you look at what the government is doing now — cutting the housing allowance, weakening the reimbursement of medicines, weakening travel expenses, increasing customer charges, all of these — to whom are they the strongest? It is precisely these lowest-income women's pensioners. But, Mr President, Minister Mäntylä was also honest in his speech. He said what was the government's answer to these people. He said that basic income support is the key to this. So the government's line is: pensioners to the income support hatch.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u43	Mr President! One more point of view. It has been said here that the government's decision to turn the housing allowance for pensioners into a general housing allowance is correct and in accordance with the principle of equality. However, this group, which is now being operated on, is not exactly an ordinary group. Most of them are people who built this country in the 50s to 60s with very small incomes, such as my own mother, who had three full-time jobs seven days a week, and still has a minimum pension. That is why we have housing allowance for pensioners because it values these pensioners more than any other recipient of housing allowance. Mr President! This is reasonable. Christian Democratic thinking involves humanity and sharing the common good with people who are no longer able to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u44	Mr President! It is also possible to find savings in areas where money is currently going to Kankkula well. A good example is Kela’s travel expenses. Now, in many places, the inefficient provincial taxi rally swallows up a huge amount of money that does not yet take care of anyone. Kela paid EUR 175 million for taxi rides last year. Savings can easily be achieved, for example, by combining journeys. Such experiments have been carried out in different parts of Finland and have actually saved $10 million. Those savings aren't out of anyone's welfare. I encourage the government to find new solutions here too. Older people and society would benefit most from having several grandpas and grandmas in the same ride and visiting a doctor, for example, for shops, coffee or some hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u45	Mr President! The government has made a tough choice of values for pensioners and claims that this is the only option. That is not the case. One could have chosen to reduce the car tax, or one could have chosen to reduce the inheritance tax for rich pensioners by less and correct these matters. You have decided to push tens of thousands of low-income pensioners into poverty and seriously undermine the livelihoods of middle-income retired people. The government's measures are hitting the low-income pensioners, those who use public services and those who use a lot of medicines. You have made an unfair, hard choice of values, which is reflected in the daily lives of pensioners. I will miss the heirs of Santeri Alkio in the Central Party. It doesn't seem like this government is doing the poor thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u46	Mr President! If we now look at the parties that have cursed the most pensioners in history, they are the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens. You can check it in history books. And it is a little gratifying, however, that RKP is also very concerned about the livelihoods of pensioners. Well, that's good. So is the government. Here is what has been said about Timo. Soini has said, and has also taken this reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners, it is suggested that this EUR 60 will be spent on all pensioners. Not everyone will, because 30% of pensioners will increase their housing allowance. No one has mentioned this, nor has it mentioned that the guarantee pension will rise to EUR 23, the Yle-tax will be abolished from 120,000 pensioners, and these are the very low-income pensioners. And next year, 50 million and 75 million will be invested in informal care in 16, from then on. Minister Ruhula, is that not so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u47	Mr President! It must now be made clear to Mr Turuse that the housing allowance for the pensioner is personal and that the general housing allowance is family-specific. You said that some people will lose EUR 60. There are families who lose 120 euros. It's a completely different system. Take a look at this before you say that the housing allowance for the pensioner is not being abolished. Another example is travel expenses, which were already mentioned here. The travel allowance currently has a liability of EUR 16. The Government will raise it to EUR 25, i.e. one round trip to EUR 50. People on low incomes, pensioners who get sick, have to go a long way to get that service for themselves, for one thing, they get more medicines, perhaps they are in the hospital. One month's expenses are going to be excessive, and you say that this government will not save the pensioners. How, Minister Mäntylä,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u48	Mr President! Populism is already coming out of my ears. The other day, the Greens were barking at educational savings, yesterday about development savings, today about pensioners' savings, and they would compensate for all this when they said they had the option of cutting the kilometric allowance for officials. What did the Greens themselves do during the last reign? Children's allowances were cut, basic education was cut, medical allowances that are important to pensioners were cut, development cooperation was cut, national pension and occupational pension indices were cut, university and university of applied sciences indices were cut. Now that the Greens here are telling us that it is a terrible choice of values, a terrible thing that the government's evil is doing all this terrible, your populism is now blooming in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u49	Mr President! I cannot help but be surprised how little discussion is taking place in this Chamber about an operation for low-income pensioners, carers and health professionals. I have not heard from the government parties the answer to how you guarantee that, with a reduced nursing allowance, everyday work in the 24-hour care of the elderly will be done with respect for the dignity of the elderly and humanely. How can we cope with the following tasks with a smaller number of nurse measures: assisting an elderly person with reduced mobility up and down the bed several times a day, drying a wet bedcloth, changing any wet sheets and sleeping beds, putting on daily clothes, hygiene, skin care, talking, toilet visits, oral hygiene, shaving, hair combing, stimulant functions, outdoor activities for the elderly, as Mr Sarkomaa also hoped, contacting relatives, reporting between nurses and so on?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u50	Mr President! The livelihood of pensioners will not be greatly improved by this debate. However, it is important to hold this debate. It is important to hold this debate because the livelihood of pensioners is, of course, the common concern of the government, including of course Parliament, the opposition, of all those here, how we can cope with it, and this is the basis for action. Mr. Speaker! I would like to raise one practical question about how society, with its resources, is better able to provide services for the elderly, for example in the form of care home entrepreneurship. I know of a case in which the Regional State Administrative Agency, or avi, when the exchange of entrepreneurs has taken place, has found that these premises are no longer suitable for a new entrepreneur. It has been a little too small a dimension of a room, sometimes a toilet dimension, the stairs as if a small angle is wrong. Would it not be good, Mr President and Ministers, for society to relax in this case, so as not to have to invest in waste and make better use of the resources of society for pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u51	Representatives Gustafsson and Huhtasaari and then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u52	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Ross for his speech, especially the start of it. That was the first proper speech by the representative of the government parties. Thank you for that. There is not one word in this debate: it is'moral'. I feel that this government decision to cut off the most low-income pensioners is immoral. The government has a moral deficit, and I think it is more significant than this sustainability deficit, which is also much spoken of. These cuts are really cruel to those on low incomes. I now appeal to the MPs of the government parties: correct this motion. I appeal to your sense of justice, your morals. If you do not do so, then you will have the opportunity to vote in December on the Socialist motion with which this error has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u53	Mr President! It's so easy to be right about the opposition. It is good to remind the SDP that the tax scale reforms of Lipponen's second government favour those with a large pension, which means that we can look at these value choices in history. And when the money runs out, then you usually start thinking. In 2008, we ran out of money, not started thinking. In seven years, we've been in debt at 75%. The opposition's group talks pointed out that hopefully the members of the government will feel the sting in their hearts. I feel this sting both in my heart and in my soul: a very bad situation in Finland, a very bad decision this cutting off of pensioners. And when the opposition says that neither that nor this nor that, at least, you certainly have this bag of money somewhere now. Give it to the government, we will certainly put it to good use.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u54	Since then, more than one Minister has been asked to speak, and that is why, in the meantime, representatives Niinistö and Guzenina, followed by Mr Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u55	Mr President! Indeed, the government is responsible. The Government makes decisions that affect the future of all Finnish people. It's worth doing them carefully. Despite all its shortcomings, the last government always assessed the income differentials, the Gini coefficients, and narrowed the income gap, improved the position of the low-income, which means that Mr Zyskowicz was clearly wrong. Mr President! I wonder why Prime Minister Sipilä, Minister of Finance Stubb and Foreign Minister Soini are not here. All credit to you ministers, but I'm sure you didn't drive these surgeries they've put you through. It is a very big question that the entire economic policy line of the government is going to be shipwrecked: cutting clearly the most of the most vulnerable people, from low-income pensioners, women, disabled people, people on sickness pensions, and these people who are already living from hand to mouth every day only weakens their plight.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u56	Mr President! Of course, recalling the old is not very sensible and constructive at this stage, even though I was guilty of it myself. But now that Mr Ville Niinistö says that I am wrong, you have to fix it. Representative Niinistö, when you were on the board, you cut 110 million euros a year for child supplements, among other things. Was this your choice of values? Do you hate families with children? Do you have a problem with families with children? You cut the basic education, you cut the medical fees, you cut the development costs, you cut the national pension index, you cut the employment pension index, you cut the university index. I am not saying at all that these were value choices from you, that you hate all these sectors and that you have something against these people, unlike you are now saying about the current government, but that there was a situation and now there is a situation where the country's overall economic situation is so bad,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u57	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is now guilty of a rather violent populism. Who was in the government with the rest of us? This government is turning old age into an extreme species. In Finland, not everyone is in the same boat, but some are hanging outside the boat. We would not cut the housing allowance for pensioners, we would not put pensioners in a different tax position, we would not cut the reimbursement of medicines, we would not increase the service charges, we would not weaken the carer’s size — that is our choice of values. Car tax or the weakening of pensioners? The government's choice of values is a reduction of 200 million car taxes. You're putting $100 million in the sweets as part of your top-notch projects. A community reindeer, that's a real top-notch joke! People with low incomes are now paying a very high price for, for example, those with good income.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u59	Mr President! They were asking where the Prime Minister was. The Prime Minister is here to see the President of Slovakia, and he'll be here if he can. Ministers Stubb and Soini are both on missions abroad, and here I am sure former ministers know that they are not always able to cancel and participate here. But then I would like to say that I understand that the task of the opposition is to find every fault in the government and to claim that it is all the fault of the government, but there is one thing that I do not sign: it was said here that the finances of the municipalities are being weakened, and that is not true. For next year, the local government finances will be strengthened. As far as the previous government is concerned, I would like to remind you that, during your time, there were EUR 1.4 billion cuts in municipal government contributions and those cuts will still be in place next year and the following year. Then, to Mr Ross' good speech, it is intended that these Ara aid guidelines should be lightened in such a way that it cannot be that, if there is a good space for a nursing home, one square or half a square will determine that it cannot be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u60	One minute's gone. Minister Mäntylä, 1 minute for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u61	Mr President! Congressman Gustafsson asked if we had a moral deficit in the government. I'm sure you don't have any more than you do. Now I go where I said I would not like to go, that is to say, digging up the old ones, but just such a detailed observation: did you think it was morally right to take out some EUR 15 billion in additional loans during your reign? This is such a thing that we are now facing quite an economic challenge like this. We cannot continue on such a path that this society, this state, is in debt and that debt is forced to fold. Do you think that's morally right? The second point is this study of yours, to which Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto referred. I would very much like to see what research contains, or what values you have put in it, and I would very much like to take the material for myself so that I can also look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u62	One minute's gone, next up is Minister Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u63	Mr President! The opposition has also been able to influence when this interim debate will take place. Secondly, the essence of the Old Age Services Act is that the service that a person needs is done from a human perspective. The service plan must be drawn up in such a way that the service needs are taken into account. It is still in force and will be in force. Secondly, Mrs Huovinen: The development programme for informal care is not only in the dusting shelf. We have 50 million at our disposal next year, for the next year, just as Mr Turunen said here, 75 million per year take the development programme for informal care support forward. It has not been put into dust or in naphthalin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u64	Mr President! The tactics of the government parties are becoming familiar: when the government is in conflict, we will have Mr Zyskowicz talk about something completely different. Similarly, Mr Turunen managed to find that this government is cutting off common services, security networks, income transfers — several billions of euros from low-income Finns — because of past immigration. In my opinion, it was quite a bottom line, because, on average, immigration in Finland also increases the number of people of working age and is on average profitable economically. Mr President! The choice of values that the government has made is that the government is in a hurry to cut quickly and only thinks about next year's budget, and this is the wrong choice of values. It is a tough choice of values, and it is a bad economic policy. It would be smarter now that our debt management expenditure is actually lower than once in 25 years — it is a fact, even though the amount of debt has increased — to carry out reforms to increase people's employment, to facilitate people's access to employment, to reform that the livelihoods are taking off. Why cut low incomes now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u65	Mr President! That's where it came from, the Greens' option: more debt. I'm sure every Finn, especially young generations, got his hair up when you're talking so irresponsible here. It is a responsible policy to put the economy in order, but at the same time we are taking action to create more growth and jobs. That's how it comes to Finland's well-being. It is all right to say here that we cannot move Finland forward by arguing, but I, as a health care professional, very much appreciate the fact that the concerns that those elderly people have are addressed. Many are at home and wonder if there is an alternative when you do not want to go to an institution and can not get to it. They want to have a chance with informal care. There is a desire to have different housing options. For these is the top welfare project, EUR 130 million. In times of difficulty, people want to create opportunities and security for the elderly, and I appreciate it very much. I hope that the opposition will also give it its appreciation and support and will be involved in these efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u66	Mr President! Here the government justifies cutting off the most low-income pensioners, because they have been taken before. There is no reason to take those who are in bad shape off even more because they are in bad shape. And, of course, what Mr Zyskowicz has listed here, the cuts made in the government of Prime Minister Stubb, combine with the current government the fact that Mr Stubb is the Minister of Finance. In other words, they are a Stubbian policy which must be turned in a different direction. Here, among other things, Mr Sarkomaa said that contentious matters could not be brought forward in Finland. But it does make a big difference that someone cares about those low-income pensioners whose situation is being made miserable. Without strong pressure on pensioners and the work of the opposition, the government would not have gone to correct these issues. But you didn't fix it enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u67	Mr President! After all, this role of government is very difficult during this term of government. It must be acknowledged that we have to make very painful decisions, and quite rightly, of course, we will raise the issue to the debate. However, I do not accept and understand that the opposition presents such rhetoric, as Mäkisalo-Ropponen mentioned that people are afraid, do not get into the shower only once a week and so on, so that is now created for people there on the couches the image that now everything is deteriorating: the locusts come, the plague comes, and everything is taken. However, the government is also determined to increase the welfare of low-income pensioners — such as this increase in informal care support and then this increase in home care support. So now, if we do with the other hand, we give a lot more and now we have to take something temporarily, you will understand that it is not all out of those people. But we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u68	Mr President! What Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said here is a living life. Last Friday, for example, I met myself and Mika Even in the common hometown of Nicokon, one pensioner who cried in the eye asked if there was anything to be done to cut this housing allowance. Mr President! Although the Finns of Finland and Timo Soinia have rightly been accused of turning their coats — whether it is about supporting Greece, cutting workers' salaries, cutting off the unemployed or cutting off those who are now low-income pensioners, of which Mr Soini said before the elections that they cannot, cannot and should not be cut, and now you are cutting — so many people have missed that the Coalition Party has also made a huge turn of coats. Even before the elections, the finance minister, Mr Stubb, said that the fundamental philosophy of the coalition was that pensions should not be taxed more heavily than work. Now this government tax policy means that next year, a middle-income pensioner will pay up to EUR 250 per year more, more stringent tax than an employee. Representative Zyskowicz, why?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u69	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here that this pension reform is, in fact, vaccination of the most low-income people, i.e. the poorest. Yesterday we received a report from the Social Insurance Institution, which Ahola has made, and it is precisely the majority of those who will receive less than 15,000 pensions will benefit from this reform and the majority of those who will receive more than 15,000 annual pensions will be less. So it's not quite the case that the lowest-income ones are taken, but this equals them. What I would have asked the Social Democrats is that if pensioners get more than the rest of the poor in the same position, what could be done for them to get the same amount?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u70	Mr President! The representative of the Finns Party, Turunen, as well as Minister Mäntylä, asked about the calculation made by this Parliament's information service, and I am very happy to turn this over to all the media who are asking for it. The representative, Mr Turunen, also asked whether this level increase of EUR 23 has not been taken into account in the guarantee pension. Yes, it has been taken into account here, but it is such a small level increase compared to all these cuts on pensioners that it will, as it were, be eaten up by these measures to weaken the government. This is really black and white. You also asked whether we take into account at all what has been done in the past. What this debate is about is that the government does not assess the overall impact of its measures. You cut very much and very much in this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u71	Mr President! The first signatory of the interim question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, could not at least be accused of finding large-scale adjectives in all the atrocities that this government is doing. There are two major questions I have raised here in relation to the opposition. The first is taxation. In all possible contexts, you have stressed that the government should increase taxation in this country, thereby taking care of everything. And now you are saying: why not make it easier to tax pensioners? On the other hand, I have not understood — and I feel that you are of course criticising this cut in the housing allowance for pensioners today as a strong and painful one, as it is — whether you are actually criticising the fact that it is a question of the fact that the housing allowance for pensioners will become conditionally similar to the general housing allowance, i.e. the housing allowance for an unemployed single parent, for example. This is something I have so far not been able to understand from you. You're just being organized.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u72	Mr President! First of all, we are talking about value choices, and you are cutting off the lowest incomes and the weakest. We would have made different value choices, and that is what this is all about. Mr President! The fact is that you are creating hopelessness, pain and uncertainty for pensioners, not only for young people but also for older pensioners. It is particularly difficult for people living alone, on low incomes, sick people who have no family or loved ones who could help them if they need help. Now the government allocates various savings to them and weakens their livelihoods, and this is how people have shown their distress and anguish about how they will survive in the future. I would like to ask you now, Ministers, because you have not carried out an overall assessment: what will all these different decisions have to do with individual pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u73	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Lindtman for his honesty, who quoted President Timo Soin before the election. On the other hand, however, I must say that the opposition has been lazy. The opposition is now making its own comments on the speeches that many of us in the opposition last season have made. You would have at least said that it and that, during the last parliamentary term, you said this and this. But you have now been so lazy in your homework that you present our own ideas during the last parliamentary term. That's a little activity! I say there have been many shameful things. For example, in my hometown In Kuopio, family carers are required to seek justice through complaints.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u74	Mr President! Housing allowance for pensioners has been created in Finland because there are people with minimal pension income. Well, you can ask now that the government is cutting: Has the situation changed? Is this housing allowance for pensioners oversized? Well, it's not. The government cuts because the Finnish economy is currently in a weak position, and in that sense the Christian Democrats have also understood from the beginning of the period that even painful cuts are needed in Finland. But instead we would not have gone to cut off this housing allowance and we will present in our own alternative budget and prove that you can make cuts in another way and yet we can balance the state finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u75	Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the group speaker of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u76	Mr President! When all these savings on pensioners are carried out, it must be noted that the government is putting the greatest burden on the shoulders of the elderly. The elderly have not earned such treatment. And to Mr Niiko, I would like to say that I am the Chairman of the Memory Federation and have received several communications from both the sick and their relatives that they are afraid of the future. Experts are also horrified. Even those experts who used to take a hard look at the nurseship we were proposing are now horrified by the government's policies. They know that the quality of treatment will be reduced. And I am particularly concerned that if nurses are not able to do rehabilitation work in the future, this will lead to an increase in bed and institutional care. My question to the Minister is: have you assessed the alternative costs of these decisions over a longer period of time if people lose their ability to function and become bed-patients and institutional care is re-emerging?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u77	A few more speeches, and then Minister Mäntylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u78	Mr. Speaker! Regrettably, taking over the deficit and debt-taking of Finland's national economy requires decisions of this kind. My morals are based on the fact that it is good to tell people that the alternative was, for example, that lower VAT rates might have risen or that general VAT would have risen. This is one choice of values. Another important choice of values is that I want these decisions to be taken in this house to correct the national economy and not in such a way that others come and tell us what we need to do. In other words, we must be able to create conditions in this situation which will continue to be able to pay pensions and to take care of disadvantaged people. That is why we have to make savings decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u79	Mr President! I must say, however, that the beginning of this new regime has been difficult. It has been difficult because people are constantly afraid when we go around in the field. They fear it when they have made these economic policies and are intimidated that this road, which the government has chosen, is the only option. Yes, it must be said that the decisions of this regime will come to sleep. This debate, which today has become entrenched, is asking whether it could not have been a little fairer to target these savings. And what is justice when the Finns at TNS Gallup were asked whether this reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners in this scale, as you intended to do at the beginning, was desirable or not? 83 per cent of Finns felt that it should be rejected. And it is no wonder that the opposition is wondering whether this was the only option. I think Timo Kalli just proved well that politics is a choice of values. There would have been a lot of other possibilities to cover this gap. But the worst part of all this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u80	And now, Mr Arhinmäki, and then Minister Mäntylä for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u81	Mr President! It is good to have the floor without asking and unexpectedly. Mr President! The reduction in the housing allowance, that is to say the abolition of the housing allowance for pensioners, means that EUR 60 will come from low-income pensioners. It is advertised that EUR 23 will be given in the second direction as an increase in the guarantee pension. It's not that warm. If you can count 60 minus 23, that means 37 euros per month will be exported. And that is not all: in addition, reimbursement of medicines will be reduced, travel expenses will be reduced and customer charges will be increased — that is, the huge drop in the support of the lowest-income pensioners. And what is the government's response, according to Minister Mäntylä? Go to the social services desk. This is what Mr Sarkomaa was talking about caring for the valuable elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u82	Mr President! There's been an argument here that you have to live with your mouth up to the sack. Who have to live up to a bag of mouths? Those pensioners who get tens of thousands of euros a month? I don't think so. The government is now making the pensioners who are already struggling with their livelihoods. Mr Saarikko and Mr Sarkomaa must be told that housing allowance is intended for temporary support, for example in the event of unemployment and during unemployment. The situation of pensioners will not change. The pensioner’s housing allowance has been created in a permanent situation. This is the difference between these systems, and here you are making a choice of values. And there is this increase in the guarantee pension, EUR 23. That is, of course, a good and positive thing. But you can't count too much on it, and you can't overexpress it. For example, one trip's own contribution of EUR 25, and the increase in the guarantee pension as a whole has already been used.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u83	Minister Mäntylä on-site for 2 minutes, and after that, we will continue with a little more debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u84	Mr President! First of all, I would like to take Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto here when I asked him for this basis on which your calculations are based. I would therefore like to do so so that we can also make a similar calculation in the Ministry. There was no... there was no... there was no... — — — — We've been there, but... The second point is whether these overall effects have been assessed. Yes. That is why, among other things, it has been decided to build that part of the housing allowance for pensioners. Similarly, in the case of reimbursements for medicines and travel expenses, assessments and proposals for measures have been carried out specifically so that they do not target those people who are forced to use, for example, travel expenses or those who are heavily on medicines. Well, then this also refers to this question by Mrs Kiljunen as to whether this has been done. Yes, it has indeed been done, and that is why we have also moderated the decisions that we have taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u85	First signatory of the interim question, Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure the government will get our calculations, and anyone will get our calculations. They're public. They have been made by the Parliamentary Information Service, and we are happy to give them to you. I would like the government itself to make the good, accurate and public calculations, so that the public can see that aha, aha, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. That's what you're doing, isn't it? I wonder now, Minister Mäntylä, whether the Finns of Peru are being exported in that government like a bucket of buckets. You say that you are interested in what happens to low incomes, but your decisions now speak a different language. Why don't you show us the calculations you're calling for here? Where do you base these speeches? They don't have heads or tails.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u87	Mr President! I am also surprised that when such massive, extensive savings and cuts are targeted at the population, especially low income people, it would be reasonable to expect — and I repeat this once again — that the government would have made timely impact assessments on people at individual level. I didn't hear any of these. Through the calculation of the Finnish Parliament, we calculated how the housing allowance cuts are targeted and how the guarantee pension and indices will affect them, that they will eat them away. That is not the task of the opposition. It's supposed to be part of good, proper preparation. That is why it is quite legitimate to insist that these impact assessments be carried out. These cuts will target low incomes. And with regard to housing aid, I would also like to say that the housing allowance for pensioners has been a means of targeting. It can also be improved and thus allocated to the status of the most low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u88	Mr President! It should be noted, however, that the benefit of tax reductions for low-income pensioners is relatively small compared to, for example, the provision and development of services. Mr President, during your last term in the government, you really did make a huge cut in the funding of municipal services. Well, who was the most affected by those surgeries? It's the elderly, the sick, the children, the elderly. And without any confusion, you cut out a giant sum. This period, on the other hand, will see the development of services. I consider the development of informal care and the development of family care to be very important and essential. These are the measures we are going to get in this particular situation when people age the fastest, human, inexpensive forms of treatment in Europe, including for the elderly with memory problems, who are desperately in need of human services. This is a very good result for us, and I am quite sure of it, and it is the first time that we have put a great deal of effort into family care and family care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u89	Mr President! These explanations by the Minister are very confusing when your chairman, Timo Soini, said before the election that this group cannot afford to operate. After the election, the answer is, there is no money. It's strange that money always runs out when it comes to pensioners. 100% of the promises to pensioners were betrayed. A little promise was made to the cars, now that the car tax was reduced, there was enough money. But, President, about this tax criticism. It's real. It's a question of justice. The Coalition Party said and swore before the elections that wage and salary earners and pensioners were on the same line in taxation. Alexander Stubb made a lot of speeches on this; this was the basic philosophy of the coalition. Now the assembly owes an explanation and an apology because this basic philosophy has turned 180 degrees into a completely different basic philosophy. That is where pensioners ask, are confused, disappointed, waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u90	Mr President! We have now heard that we are shameful, gross turncoats in a moral deficit. These feedbacks do not actually contribute to the coverage of Finland’s budget deficit. The government's choice of values has taken place. And now that you are taking this car tax again and again, so that this could now cover all other cuts, I would remind you that the government's tax programme, i.e. the government's tax programme, is quite neutral, the government programme does not change much tax, and that half of the reduction in car tax is replaced by a vehicle tax and 50 million by a new boat tax. So, in the end, even here, the tax loss is very small,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u91	Mr President! As a new Member of Parliament, I cannot help but marvel at the arguments of the government parties for the cuts they have made. There are always two: one is'must', the other is 'you have cut'. First of all, politics does not have to, there are choices. Now the government has made a choice of values that severely weakens the position of the lowest-income pensioners. Secondly, you have understood that when you make new cuts you do not make them clean and at the same time cancel previous cuts. They come on top of previous cuts, and therefore, in many places, the last pain limit is exceeded, as is now the case with many low-income pensioners. Yesterday, in this Chamber, the foreign policy debate raised, among other things, the UN’s sustainable development objectives, which also apply to Finland. One of these objectives is to eradicate poverty in the world by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u92	Mr President! Representative Mikkonen nominated for a party that was doing exactly the same in the previous period, if you say so, in terms of value choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u95	Mr President! The Greens’ option — other opposition parties here, they can answer for themselves — is to achieve a balance in the state finances in two electoral periods and it places more emphasis on raising employment, dismantling incentives traps, helping people to help themselves by working. Your option, in one parliamentary term, makes a very ugly impression that the basic structures of the welfare state are being undermined, cut — that is, if we look at the responsibility and where the heavy choice of values has taken place — on the overgeneration of responsibility for treating elderly people who have already done a lot for this country, especially for the lowest-income pensioners, and then cut a lot for children, for the knowledge of the future, which leads to drop-out. I would also like to say that yesterday Kela also presented calculations on the impact on average of tax solutions and support solutions for pensioners. A person receiving a net occupational pension of EUR 600 per month, i.e. a person receiving less than 1000 gross pensions, loses an average of EUR 30 and EUR 2400
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u96	Mr President! First, the taxes. No party in the multi-party government can achieve all its goals through the Government Programme, and so now we are following the Government Programme, which has agreed that next year's tax reduction will be made through a reduction in labour income. As far as these savings are concerned, this is precisely the fact that, when there is any issue ahead of us that the government has had to spare, the opposition is happy to say that this is precisely what we do not accept, that is the wrong choice of values. The next day there will be another wrong choice of values and the next day there will be a wrong choice of values. Then you have the nerve to say that you have a choice. The only one who is honest on your side and has an alternative is the Left Alliance, because they say frankly that the alternative is to take on more debt. But, for example, the green option is to cut the civil servants' mileage and finance hundreds of millions of development cooperation, pensioners, families with children, education and everything. It's just a bunch of humbug. Representative Niinistö, I say to you: this is your speech about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u97	Mr Rinne and then Mr Niinistö must be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u98	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen was quite right that at some point each of us was party-making in the government, but in that he was wrong that the values were the same. A few months ago, the National Institute for Health and Welfare assessed this government’s programme and stated that it was making all the good things about income differentials and poverty that the previous government had achieved. Mr President! The Social Democrats have been doing this intermediate issue because we want to change these decisions on pensioners. Our aim is to bring down these government proposals here in Parliament, and that is why we are doing this. Looking into the rear-view mirror in the way that we talk about previous government periods does not help this. We want to bring these things down and have better alternatives. We have options: that car tax, the calculation of inheritance tax, there is money for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u99	Mr President! The Greens will present their own alternative budget in the near future, and it will be a whole package, and Mrs Zyskowicz will be able to look at it once she has been interested in it many times. But, Mr President, the choice of values is whether we are now protecting the interests of the weakest and investing in the future through education or whether we are going to leave in haste when there is a terrible, terrible rush when the debt clock ticks, to cut down on the very services of the welfare society that guarantee that we will be able to manage in the future. This government is taking the risk that without assessing the overall impact, it will increase poverty among pensioners, reduce children's access to education and increase school drop-out. This is a mistake and will lead to increased costs, an increasing need for income support. And with regard to pensioners, it must be said that the housing allowance for pensioners and the basic security for pensioners have been deliberately higher, because they are not expected to apply for employment as well, but that it is a permanent basic security for them, which must be at a sufficient level, that we show respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u100	Mr President! Representative Rinnes: Of course, this part of history is pointless, but it does indicate, on the other hand, its long line that parties in general have been able and ready to develop both income transfers and services, and in times of weakness have been adapted. Many adjustments have also been made to current transfers, but there are also differences here. During the uprising, my first government had a good cooperation with the Social Democrats, but there was one thing that had to be twisted terribly. That was whether the lowest pensions would be raised by EUR 7 or EUR 12. That debate had to take place for every euro, just like the pliers. The position of the Social Democrats was that the increase to the lowest pensions goes to everyone. Only the next government, my second government, made an increase in the guarantee pension. At the time, it was targeted only at the smallest pensions and the increase was EUR 100 at one time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u101	Mr President! First of all, as far as these values are concerned and as far as this state economy is concerned, these decisions have been justified by indebtedness on the part of all the government parties, but when you look at the budget book, the fact is that next year there will be more debt than this year. But, Mr President, I would like to return to this tax, which Mr Zyskowicz said. If it is the case that you have now come to the conclusion that middle-income pensioners must pay more tax on the same income than employees — i.e. middle-income pensioners are put on an unequal footing in taxation — they would probably now be interested to know whether there is a limit when they pay next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u102	Mr President! The Parliamentary Information Service has fallen that the poverty rate of people aged over 65 will rise by more than 3 percentage points with the actions of this Government Programme. This means, in practice, that there will be some 33,000 more poor pensioners. This, Mr President, is a conscious value policy from our current government, which will therefore increase poverty and inequality in Finland. I will ask Minister Mäntylä when, in your opening speech, you made a worthy point about the increase in poverty among older women and you raised the concern that the risk of poverty among women is higher than that of men: what are the concrete measures that you will take in government and which will actually address this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u103	Mr President! This government does good things for pensioners: developing care for the elderly and strengthening family care for all ages. Hard decisions are made, and you can't deny that. I do think that the left-wing opposition underestimates Finnish pensioners. Finnish pensioners do not only think about their own purses but also understand the situation in Finland, know that the debt is a brother when you take a brother and you pay a nephew. In other words, we cannot under any circumstances, Mr Lindtman, that we will leave to future generations such a debt burden that no Finnish generation, even with the war compensation, has had. You must understand that, in such an economic situation, everyone is going to have to do something about it: through the solidarity tax, the richest of them as well as pensioners and students — all of them. There's no denying it. Everyone's on a spree. This has been made clear by the government, but you underestimate the patriotism of Finnish pensioners in favour of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u104	Mr President! I would like to say that I believe that nobody in this Chamber is taking lightly the debt of our country. And as has been said here, we are also taking this issue seriously. The question is that we would like the government to carry out a comprehensive impact assessment of these actions. It's going to be an ewe now. Where are the income distribution effects already referred to here? Last season, it was possible to take care of the smallest people with regard to the distribution of income. Where are they, government? It is also confusing that the eyes of the representatives of the government parties and ministers have now been opened up, as it were. You, Minister Mäntylä, made me feel that in what way Huovinen is going to manage the care measure to 0.8 — and now you are going to count it to 0.4. There was a large number of Finns here last season,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u105	Mr President! I live to remember the old Finnish folk wisdom of this debate: "The pot beats the pot, the black side on both." In my view, the wisest thing in this situation that a responsible government can do is to acknowledge the facts. We are in a situation where we are forced to make painful decisions. The Greek path that awaits us if we are not wise now is even more terrible. For example, Mr Ville Niinistö — he used many speeches about how the purse should always be open — openly supported, in due course, a large, large mouth to pay huge subsidies to the German and French banks because of the euro crisis, he was heading for the winds to pay them back then. I remember those speeches like yesterday. And now there's a debt purse open again. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst poison we can have in this country, whether a pensioner or a student, is this irresponsible economic policy with which our interest rates are rising. We have to pay more interest on government debt for the budget, all those in housing debt are
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u106	Mr President! It is good that the opposition should also hear what the responsible ministers are saying. This is where Minister Mäntylä said that impact assessments have been carried out. One example of this is that the transition to the general housing allowance system for pensioners was moderated, reduced when the effects were seen. I therefore propose, as I suggested in my group statement, that the government should consider adding these demographic impact assessments to the general budget justifications. Then we would have the same figures and we could discuss them together. But these impact assessments have been carried out in the same way as during the previous government. This government can improve on this, and it would certainly be possible to answer this question as to whether this is possible. As far as this tax issue is concerned, it is true that just one government tax policy is not what the coalition has proposed, but I am surprised that nothing will happen to the opposition. When Mr Lindtman criticises the tax line in pension policy here, do you also oppose the lower limit of the solidarity tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u107	From this point on, I would like to give the group speakers the floor, which ones are present, and then brief comments to the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u108	Thank you, Mr President. If the government had made the impact assessments, you would have noticed, for example, that when you reduce the possibilities of living at home, you increase the need for institutional care, and that is the most expensive form of living that Finland has wanted to get rid of. You also shorten your careers. That's how you weaken the state economy. You will increase the need for income support when a poor pensioner no longer manages with his housing allowance. And as at least Minister Ruhula, whom I have appreciated very much in the past, well knows, income support is a form of support that does not support employment, contrary to what the new Minister Mäntylä here claims. You said that pensioners are supposed to go to work, but that is not possible if they receive income support. Then the pensioner will be there in poverty, from which one cannot escape alone. You should now learn a little about these basic principles of social security legislation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to this debate and I am very sad that the truth is being used here in a somewhat selective way, unfortunately. Firstly, it is said that 'the last parliamentary term', and it is forgotten that under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, Mr Urplainen, an additional tax was imposed on pensioners receiving more than EUR 45000 and that the limit for employees was 90000. This has been done during the last parliamentary term. Where did you forget this? Against this background, when we have listened to this debate, this will lead to nothing that we are fighting here. It is now best that we carry out a detailed analysis and, on the basis of this debate, also what happened during the previous parliamentary term. You can't get away with it like a dog. You are now trying to forget everything that happened, and now that the reports are made on both parliamentary periods and the effects, then we will have the basis for discussing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u110	Mr President! The Government is strongly emphasising development here through key projects, and among other things, this home care development project has been mentioned here today, but the government has completely forgotten that, for example, enhanced service housing is also home. It is the only opportunity for many people with memory problems to live in a homelike way, and in these so - called community homes, people pay the rent themselves, the medicines, the medical supplies, and so on. People living in these community homes are now in the weakest position as a result of government decisions. Their livelihoods and the quality of their care are decreasing most. Why does the government not develop the situation of these people living in community homes when the government once emphasizes living at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u111	Mr President! Finland owes EUR 10000 per minute. Our children and grandchildren will pay off this debt at some point, but not entirely. It must be possible to reverse this trend, Finland's indebtedness is changing in a more positive direction. This requires painful cuts, and we in the government have considered that these will be done as fairly as possible. It is up to the opposition to criticise, but also to bring its own options. These options should highlight how this indebtedness can be brought to an end. And in order to understand where we are: the speech by the first signatory of the intermediate question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, took 12 minutes to 25 seconds, that is to say, Finland was in debt at 122,000 during its speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u112	Mr President! Unfortunately, this is where Mr Hoskonen left. He criticised this debt, and the previous speaker also explained how much Finland owed during that group speech. But I do not quite understand, when these figures clearly appear in this yellow book, that next year's debt will be more than this year's, what we are talking about here, when it is said that this government is supposed to reduce debt. That is not true. You are clearly giving false information to the citizens through such speeches. This is about what you want to spend that money on values when you want to spend it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u113	Mr President! Indeed, it would certainly be justified for Parliament to change its practice by giving the opposition its own option in the past, to see, in fact, where there is a situation in which the public genuinely understands that there are no responsible alternatives, that we should not also have to make difficult, painful decisions. Mr President! I also think it is important that the effects of the decisions taken are monitored. It is very important to see how income support expenditure develops and how we can prevent it, It is also a matter for which a decision has not yet been taken as a whole, how to move forward, and I hope that, as part of it, experts will also be consulted and considered when Tehy and SuPer, for example, have presented a care measure, to see what the condition of the person in need of treatment is, and thus to achieve such a goal,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u114	Mr Guzenina, then Mr Henriksson, and then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u115	Mr President! Yes, you want to believe in the sincerity of the Finns, and the question arises as to whether you have understood what you are doing. It seems to me that you think that politics has no alternative, although shortly before the elections you specifically wanted to offer the Finnish people alternatives in the squares and squares. It is symbolic that at the moment there are only three members of the coalition present in this Chamber, and these three members of the coalition, with their rhetoric, with their choicelessness, are taking you like rams on a string. This overall impact assessment: That is not only what we in the opposition are concerned about, but that is what 85 Finnish professors and research managers have been concerned about in their appeal to the government to launch an impact assessment of the government's programme on this too, and they say that the government's cutbacks are largely paid for by low-income women. I'm sure you're familiar with this investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u116	Mr President! I am sure we all agree that the economic situation is really challenging. We will also have to make cuts, but we will have to invest much more in creating new jobs and, in particular, the conditions for these new jobs to be created. Now that the government parties are asking us how the opposition would do otherwise, I could say here — and this is also in our alternative budget — that we would not, for example, prioritise the reduction of the car tax. We believe that EUR 200 million can be used for a better purpose, and we believe that these cuts, which are now being applied to the housing allowance for pensioners, are wrong. They target the very people who need support so that they can live in the safe conditions in which they are today. That's why
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u117	Now it would be Minister Mäntylä, 3 minutes, then Minister Rehula, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u118	Mr President! First of all, I have to say to Mr Guzenina that you do not have to worry about the Finns, yes, we are committed to making a government, and we are completely equal government actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u123	Minister Ruhula, 2 minutes off the scene, then one minute to Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u124	Mr President! This cost impact assessment and impact assessment have now become fashionable, and it is good that the effects of the decisions are also being pursued in euro terms. Housing allowance for pensioners: In preparation, several alternative models followed by a choice and the result of the selection is here. The result of the selection is that a maximum of EUR 60 per month can be lost. We were in a situation where, in individual cases, a person receiving a guarantee pension of EUR 743 could have lost more than EUR 200 per month. I do not know whether this is a proper assessment, but this evaluation has been carried out within the government, for example. Secondly, a week after the government programme, the impact of government taxes and transfers on different population groups became public. That's what they've been doing ever since. My third point is this: the feedback that has been received — I understand the opposition's feedback on this issue very well. There are things of the heart and there are things of the heart. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, if you try to do something during this parliamentary term, it is becoming increasingly diverse that you can live at home. Whoever has the home — they are different, people are different, and homes will be different. We have genuinely new money to spend on increasing the diversity of living at home. Secondly, this dimension does not determine what must be its dimension. There is a recommendation today, and we have almost all the actors in the elderly services that go beyond the current recommendation. So...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u125	Minister Vehviläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u126	Mr President! Three comments. The first one for this impact assessment. We all know that, in fact, such absolute impact assessments cannot entirely exist. But as far as impact assessments are concerned, the government is going to improve further, because we are going to set up an impact assessment body, which means that when every ministry becomes a government proposal and evaluation may not be quite right, it will still be through a separate evaluation body and will then have better legislation. Then on savings: No party has a clean neck in it for making savings and cuttings. Everyone has been involved in them, and I bet when this picture of the economy is as weak as it is now, that even the post-government government may be involved in making cuts. Thirdly, as far as municipalities are concerned, we must also remember that not all decisions depend on what is being taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u127	This stage of debatability ends with the fact that after three ministers have spoken, I will give a few more speeches to the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u128	Mr President! The Minister asked for these figures. Indeed, the Parliamentary Information Service takes into account the increase in the guarantee pension of EUR 23, the adjustment of the housing allowance for pensioners to the general housing allowance, and then the freezing of the pension index. Based on these calculations, 27,000 of persons aged 65 or over fall below the poverty line, but this calculation assumes that all of them will receive this protection. In fact, this will not happen, but some will lose the protective part because they come as a new pensioner into this system or change it and so on. And assuming that no one would receive a protective portion, then the number of these new ones falling into poverty would be 33,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u129	Mr President! Finally, we have to return to the group statement by the Finns of Peru. That was expected here in the opposition. It did cause a breath of breath, namely that it did not go to the last parliamentary term or to the previous parliamentary term, but even 20 years away, eight prime ministers, to seek the guilty. Indeed, in this debate it is unnecessary and hopeless to seek the blame of the esteemed former Prime Minister Paavo Lippo for this policy of your government. Take responsibility for your actions, explain your reasons for your decisions and listen to the message of the citizens. The government wisely listened to midwives — now listen to low - income pensioners. And yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u130	Now we are moving on to the actual speeches, and the time for the debate will come when the list has gone a little further.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u131	Mr President! I personally consider this interim issue and this debate to be important, but I also have some reservations about all this debate. First of all, we should always have discussions in this Chamber about how political proposals, decisions and policies affect Finns as people and society. From this point of view, I would also like to extend my hand to the opposition's proposal for a more detailed impact assessment, which has, however, been carried out. When a tight economic situation requires difficult action, we must also remember our role in the impact assessment when the legislative proposals move forward in our own processes and are before Parliament. Everyone, including pensioners, has the right to have a clear overall picture and an accurate overview of what the government's actions will have — including those positive effects. Today, the negative impact in euro has been very clearly emphasised, but very little attention has been paid to all these structural reforms and also to the good operational improvements. On the other hand, I do indeed have reservations about this debate. Six months after the parliamentary elections, this debate also seems more like polishing the opposition's own image. Pensioners can ask you just as well as we do now what the SDP, for example, did during the last period, and as we well remember, the last period ended in direct chaos for all Finns and for all decision-making purposes. Mr President! Good care and human care are highlighted in the everyday lives of older people. In-house care is also the everyday life of many pensioners. Much has been said about the development of informal care and its importance has long been recognised, but under the leadership of the Sipilä Government, EUR 75 million will finally be invested in it. At the same time, help and family care to be taken home will be developed. Overall, Sipilä's Government invests in services. By the way, it is noteworthy that every time the centre is on the board, the services have been invested. These interim issues or key press releases do not change the fact that, for example, services have not been developed anywhere near the size of the speeches when the SDP is in the government. At the initiative of the centre, a guarantee pension scheme was also created in the country, let us remember that. Now that the centre is on the board, the guarantee pension will be increased and, for example, money will be added for the rehabilitation of veterans. Only actions are decisive, good opposition. The increase in the guarantee pension will bring the lowest-income pensioners an increase of approximately EUR 20 to the monthly income. Separate flat-rate increases are exceptional given the policies of recent years, so I will not allow this issue to be overshadowed by the opposition's speeches, especially since the increase in the guarantee pension will facilitate the situation of the smallest pensioners. At central government level, the increase is an investment of EUR 30 million in the livelihood of pensioners, i.e. it is not small on any measure. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention in this debate to the fact that this government has taken a broad line on shared responsibility. Taking responsibility and taking care of one needs to be strengthened in order to cope with both this economic situation and the development of the age structure. The development of services has therefore been the right line for the Sipilä Government. In practice, this responsibility requires and also enables the third sector to be strengthened. It is clear that there are different and even contradictory views among pensioners, as do other Finns, among our representatives, about the actions required by the Finnish economic situation. Some are opposed to these measures, but there are also a significant number of pensioners who support the government's efforts to correct the direction of the economy. In many public gatherings, government action has been encouraged. My experience is that pensioners are concerned about what kind of economy we leave to their offspring. Of course they call for and deserve fair decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u132	Mr President! This interim issue deals with the impact of government decisions on pensioners. In the Government Programme, the fourth key project is to develop home care for older people and strengthen family care for all ages. This is a very good initiative for me. In fact, informal care should be seen as a broader social activity. Family care is not a service; it is a form of care and should also be seen as such in the preparation of the law. We need to see the family nurse as a partner in the social system. There are many kinds of informal care, each kind of care relationship is different. For example, remote care is a rising trend: many people in work take care of an ageing family member or family member who may live in another city. That is why I am very pleased that the Government's aim is to support the well-being of family and family carers through various measures, thus facilitating the reconciliation of informal care and work. Mr President! The Government will reform family and family care through legislative changes. Thank you to the government for this. This has been expected. The focus is on supporting the ability of family carers and in particular increasing the number of days off and diversifying foster care to replace informal care. The core project is based on the principle that services for the elderly are the primary services for the functioning of their own home. This is a very important project. If we do not take care of older family carers and their ability to cope, we have both a nurse and a nurse in institutional care. The Kärki project involves, among other things, new municipal trials. I would have asked the Minister that in order to ensure that this excellent contribution and the bill are carried out in the right way, how has the government thought about how the spending of money in the municipalities will be monitored and monitored in the future, so that it goes to the right place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u133	Mr President! I was always moved by the Roller at the social welfare office in the corridor of customers seeking income support. A copy of the old-fashioned bank book said that pension income was just enough for rent and necessary expenses. The hospital bill and the new drugs were already too much for the living old man. In my work at the social welfare office, I felt angry that the elderly person who was travelling in Finland on a walker had to wait in line at the social welfare office just because he was ill enough to pay his month’s rent. Now I'm even more angry. The Government is abolishing the housing allowance for pensioners, increasing health care customer fees and cutting travel and medical expenses. It is these low-income elderly people who are most affected by these cuts, those who use a lot of public health services and those who need medicines. Nearly 100,000 pensioners lose EUR 60 per month. Everyone on low incomes knows how much money this is. Surgery increases pensioner poverty, and as a result many people have to apply for income support to cope with rent payments and food and medical expenses. In particular, the proposed cuts weaken the financial position of pensioners, since women make up the majority of pensioners who are poor. In recent years, Finland has wanted to move from institutional care for the elderly to home-supported housing. This has also meant a change in the cost of treatment. The charges charged by the municipality are separated from the housing costs. The basis for housing allowance for pensioners is different from the general housing allowance, precisely because it is possible to better support the residence of pensioners in a familiar and safe environment and because the situation of pensioners is permanent. At its worst, this surgery will reduce the well-being and everyday functioning of older people and increase the cost of social and health services. Financial support for living at home thus weakens those who already have difficulties paying both their rent, their food and their medical expenses. However, the long-term planned ceiling reform of social welfare and health care charges, travel expenses and pharmaceutical costs will not be implemented. In this situation, the reform must be carried out immediately, as this is the only way to ensure that many people on low incomes can cope with the additional costs of the disease. On top of these financial savings for pensioners, a reduction in the human dimension of elderly services is envisaged. This whole thing is a cycle of nausea. People have a real and real need to know whether they will survive in the future. Mr President! We are now creating new poor people, pensioners, in Finland. The risk of poverty is particularly high for the elderly living alone, who, according to the OECD comparison, are already the weakest in Western Europe. The government cuts will probably lead to our reference group being Eastern Europe instead of other Nordic and Western European countries. Last February, the European Social Rights Committee made a comment on Finland's minimum level of protection, which, according to the Committee, does not meet the requirements of the Council of Europe's Social Charter. This is in Finland in 2015. Mr President! Everyone must have the right to a dignified life and old age. I am afraid that this objective will no longer be achieved in Finland. These cuts are a very tough choice of values, and I strongly appeal to the government to reconsider them. If not, I support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u134	Madam President! There is a need for a mid-term question on the livelihood of pensioners. The government is losing decisions and only then will it examine their effects. The greatest burden of budget cuts is borne by the low-income, unemployed, elderly, children and young people. The government will increase customer charges for social welfare and health services, reduce housing allowance for low-income pensioners, freeze national pensions, reduce medical benefits, increase the responsibilities of taxi fares for sick persons, eliminate the dietary allowance. These are the worst hit by the most vulnerable, such as pensioners and many disabled people. The change in housing allowance is drastic. At first, it was estimated to reduce the housing allowance for many low-income pensioners by up to EUR 100 to 200 per month. After waking up to the absurdity of the decision, the government corrected the proposal so that the cut would be up to 60 euros a month. This too is a large amount of money for the low-income, not to mention the absence of this protective part for the new beneficiaries. The problem of equality arises when those who retire next year will not be able to benefit from the EUR 60 protection component. So their housing allowance will be cut more. You can also lose protection if you change your dwelling. At the same time, as the population ages, the number of elderly people who cannot survive at home without support will increase. Every old man deserves human care, intimacy and stimulation. Housing at home must be supported by taking home services such as catering and cleaning services. The level of institutional care will be ensured by ensuring better working conditions for nurses and by increasing stability and training. Caretakership in the long-term care of the elderly is necessary. In addition to good care, the elderly naturally also need outdoor activities and other recreation. At this point, citizens and non-governmental organisations who volunteer also play an important role in helping carers. Public authorities must guarantee a framework for the development of community by supporting the third sector and the activities of organisations. Anyone can be a friend to an old man, listen to stories about past years, read and walk. Children’s music colleges can perform in services for the elderly. Children have the joy of performing, and everyone has a good mind in meeting up with generations. For the elderly, the best option is often to live as long as possible at home or in similar circumstances in a service house. Home services for older people, hobbies, in particular physical exercise that strengthens muscle fitness and service points for the elderly, old-age counselling centres will help. Strengthen the upstream, prevention and primary health care of the care chain. Many people, even young ones, are lonely in today’s world. The challenge in the future is to provide more and more services where different generations meet and not isolate different populations. Mr President! Significant support for informal care is a solution that is necessary and an affordable option for public authorities. Even if more money is invested in supporting informal care by means of outpatient care and the level of compensation is raised to a reasonable level, the costs are still not high compared to institutional care for the elderly. Family care is both an affordable and human solution. Currently, the support for informal care and the criteria for granting it differ from one locality to another. It is therefore important to receive the payment of informal care support to Kela in order to provide equal support for all those who do valuable work. Support for informal care must be increased, and support services must be provided to family carers so that they are better able to care for their loved ones. Mr President! The Federation of War Invalids has again highlighted the degree of disability, particularly from the point of view of how unfair it treats those whose war injury is defined in the 10% disability category. It is not possible for them to obtain similar food services, laundry, cleaning services as other war-qualified comrades with a higher degree of disability, nor do they receive other veteran services because they are invalids. So they're between veteran services. The war ombudsmen are appealing to us to correct this situation now that there is still time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u135	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Pekonen, the chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance, pointed out very well how the government's decision to cut several groups of people treats pensioners who are on low incomes unfairly but most unfairly. About a quarter of pensioners receive pension below EUR 1000 per month, and far too many pensioners live below the poverty line or at the very poverty line. The income gap is also about to explode in the case of pensioners. The growing distribution of society among the good and the bad is strongly visible among pensioners. While the government disciplines low-income pensioners, we can read in the newspapers how some high-income pensioners complain about unfair treatment in Finland and move to Portugal to get their big pensions in a clean hand. I wonder how it feels for low-income pensioners to listen to the arguments of these many times better pensioners to leave Finland? How does it feel to listen to the bad feelings of high - income pensioners when they are allowed to count their own money to be sufficient for food and medicine? Madam President! In its typical way, the government has also failed to carry out impact assessments for pensioners. Since the government disciplines pensioners on low incomes in particular, the different effects of cuts on men and women should have been assessed already when decisions were taken. In many cases, when people talk about low-income pensioners, it goes without saying that the differences in the risk of poverty between the sexes are quite high in Finland. For pensioners women, the risk of poverty is higher than for pensioners, as Minister Mäntylä also said. It is shocking that almost one third of women over 75 live alone live below the poverty line. Women's pension in 2014 was 78 per cent of men's pension. It is confusing that although the employment rate for women in Finland is high compared to many other countries, the gender pension gap is very high. The smaller pension euro for women explains many of the issues that it is now important to address. How do we address the pay gap between men and women more effectively? And what do we do to ensure that children’s access and other related care do not unduly cut women’s pensions, and how is care shared more evenly among the sexes? In addition to the fact that paid care is particularly low-paid work for women, private care, such as care for children and the elderly, has a particular impact on women's lives and pensions. Women continue to use the majority of family leave. At the age of 65, those who continue to work have half the number of men than women, which affects women’s pension intake. The lower retirement age for women is likely to be affected by the fact that women also care more at retirement age, as 70% of carers are women. How has the government addressed these issues in its own policy? There's no way. These issues must be addressed in order to influence the risk of poverty for retired women. Madam President! In addition to pensioners on old-age pensions, pensioners are found in a wide range of life situations. Young people under the age of 30 retire every day, most of them for mental health reasons. How will government cuts have a strong impact on this group at risk of exclusion? Above all, these young people need time and support for adults, not cuts that will further displace them. Taking care of children and young people is a task for all of us and in the interests of all of us. The Government’s short-sighted policy prevents it from dealing effectively with problems such as growing income disparities and income problems. With short-sighted savings, problems accumulate when they are not addressed early enough. Government policy is driving us into a situation where the number of low-income pensioners is growing and pensioners are even more low-income than they are now. How will future generations deal with this increasing number of low-income pensioners now being raised by the government through its unsolidarized cutting policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u136	Värderade fru talman! Den ekonomiska location som Finland befinner sig i just nu är svår. Vi måste dels försöka stimulera tillväxten och därmed öka sysselsättningen genom olika åtgärder, bland you give the genome att underlätta verksamhetsförutsättningarna för för företagande. Men vi måste också vara beredda att göra inbesparingar. Jag har förståelse för det rauta, och anser i och för sig att regeringen har gjort en correct bedömning då det gäller de ekonomingarna vi står inför. Men det verkar ändå som om regeringens sparåtgärder inte har consekvensbedömts, och i det det raus fallet att de blir oproportionellt stora för en del pensionärer, och med risk för att consekenserna till och med kan bli ödesdigra för de pensionärer som har de allra lägsta inkomsterna. Vi är alltså tvungna att spara, det kan jag hålla med om. Men jag anser att det inte är rätt att i så raus stor utsträckning spara för dem som har det svårast, och kanske till och med allra svårast i vårt samhalle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u137	Madam President! The expected increase in social expenditure on the public side and the ageing of our population has been known since the first half of the 1990s. In the last three years alone, the change has been intense. In 2012, public social expenditure amounted to EUR 60 billion, last year to EUR 66 billion. The share of social expenditure in GDP has also increased all along. Last year the share was already over 32 per cent. The structural change in services has progressed slowly, so it is now necessary to begin to change. The dependency ratio is deteriorating in Finland. In the 1990s, the proportion of the population aged over 65 was still 13 per cent. It is now 20%, and in 2060 it is up to 30%, according to population forecasts. We simply cannot afford to maintain a system of this kind as the number of pensioners even triples. Madam President! The last couple of hours in this room, they've been wringing hands mostly about money. I'd like to remind you that money doesn't guarantee happiness. The happiness and well-being of all of us, including pensioners, is very far from just the balance of the bank account. What, then, is man’s happiness? Health, loved ones, nature. The healthier people are, the better they will be. Health promotion is one of the government's top projects, with money being paid back several times over. The increase in well-being that it brings to people in improving their quality of life and reducing health inequalities is difficult to measure in money. In addition, the issue that affects many pensioners is that this government is investing tens of millions of euros in extra money in informal care, home care and family care. By strengthening home care and informal care, the quality of life of the elderly and their families will be preserved and the need for older people to move to expensive institutional care or to move from a familiar home to improved service housing will be reduced or delayed. All seem to be concerned about the status and ability of carers, and rightly so, but this government moved from solemn speeches to practical actions. The Government provides EUR 75 million per year in permanent funding to increase the well-being of family carers. The focus is on supporting family carers’ ability to cope and, in particular, increasing their days off. In addition, EUR 20 million will be invested in developing family care. Madam President! In this Chamber, a couple of speeches, in particular Mrs Halmemenpää, pointed out the decrease in the number of carers to 0.4. He listed a handful of care measures for which trained personnel are needed. From there it reminds me, as ward manager of the nursing home: He mentioned feeding, washing, reading, brushing teeth. Listen, Dads and Moms, aren't these familiar things? Each one of us can and must do, and above all must do, these treatments for his own children and at some point, if we are touched by his/her own motherhood, his/her own parents. There is no need for training in these matters, and this is one of the central points where I see that this government wants to do otherwise. In order for us to have enough medical staff, we need to open up care workers to do the nursing work. This is an extremely important issue. I remember the many times that I myself, as a department manager, have been able to fill out the schedules with pains, that I would know that there would be very competent and good people coming on duty, but they lack that formal training. They could well have guaranteed good care, but they did not have that training. We have also promised to dismantle bureaucracy at last, and this is one of the very important and genuinely cost-effective but not the worse of care if the government is able to dismantle this unnecessary regulation. I still believe that care places are different, and as everyone who works in care for the elderly knows, the fitness of an elderly person varies every day. These things are better known in care units than in Parliament. We need flexibility, not rigidity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u138	Madam President! This interim debate is such a strange one — I wonder what it would be called — when, for example, the SDP has spoken here about cuts, what is being done to pensioners, and at the same time, among other things, the President-in-Office. Rinne has said that we need to get the export industry in order and we need investment here. I don't understand this kind of policy, where you can't cut the public side down, that taxation is made to fall and therefore investments here. They only come from there. The money world is moving around freely, and it will come here to Finland if it is worth investing in. But if it doesn't, it's gonna be bad. Then again, of these rich pensioners, of whom Mr Hänninen here said that they are moving to Portugal, for example: well, is it good that they are moving to Portugal? Is it not better that they are here in Finland and run? For there's the money spinning, the poor have less money than the rich. It's as simple as that. The interim text gives the impression that any government action would be negative towards pensioners. That is why I would like to point out that there is going to be a improvement in the situation of veterans. In 2017, the disadvantage rate will be reduced so that mild-impaired war choosers will be able to access open services. More money is coming for the rehabilitation of veterans, because a couple of weeks ago the chairmen of parliamentary groups made a joint budget initiative for an additional EUR 4 million. The level of rehabilitation allowance per veteran for breast veterans will increase by approximately EUR 300 compared to this year's level. The Government will also significantly reduce the waste water regulation, and many pensioners will benefit from this. It's great that reason is finally starting to win in this respect too. I have spoken on many occasions here about this matter and about a year ago I asked a written question about it. I do not think that the whole regulation should have been developed in the first place. Madam President! Now we are in this situation where the economy is stalling and there is no extra money. This government is absolutely obliged to do what the previous governments were unable to do. Strict economic policy must try to save the operating conditions of our welfare society. I would like to ask the first signatory, the Greens, of the interim question: How do you see your contribution to the Finnish economy’s rescue projects? Have climate agreements, sulphur directives and unreasonable protection provisions contributed to Finland’s economic growth and thus increased our common treasury from which welfare services are paid? Madam President! The economic situation is weak and we have also had tens of thousands of immigrants coming in for a short time. The government is working hard to control reckless and unreasonablely expensive immigration. I hope that blackmail will take place as soon as possible, because it is urgently and desperately needed. There are many aspects of this disaster that concern the citizens. For many years the Finns have warned against this pilgrimage, but we have not been listened to but have been condemned as burdens. The previous governments, especially the Green Left, are to be commended for the fact that Finland is now tumbling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u139	Madam President! From the government’s point of view, today’s topic of discussion is only one part of the savings package. We, the signatories to the interim issue, want the basic values of the welfare society to come to the debate. We want to have respect for and care for those who have been building our welfare society. We want to speak on behalf of people who cannot defend themselves in wage negotiations but whose livelihood depends on the dignity of the rest of society. The main objectives of our welfare policy have been to reduce poverty among older people and other retired people. This objective has not been achieved, perhaps not even close, but we have nevertheless moved in the right direction. In addition to pensions, the objective has been promoted by providing adequate support for the housing of pensioners by ensuring that the cost of medicines for pensioners with higher costs is kept under control and that the services are in order. Government cuts mean that even the modest achievements of welfare policy are not appreciated. Housing allowance for pensioners will be reduced by transferring housing allowance for pensioners to the general housing allowance. This affects the majority of pensioners receiving housing allowance. The reimbursement of medical costs and travel expenses will be reduced and service charges will be increased. These changes also affect a large number of pensioners. They also target the most vulnerable. People with low incomes will be punished, those who need medicines will be punished. People are driven to a dead end where you have to choose either to compromise on food or to compromise on medicines. The cuts are particularly severe in terms of the livelihood of women on old-age pensions. Women are the majority of pensioners who are poor. Women's pension income is EUR 15823 and men EUR 20473 per year. The same is true of the weakening of carer’s standards. Mr President! The intermediate issue is always accompanied by a boost in which the opposition wishes to express its distrust of the government. There is also a sincere hope that the government will once again consider the fairness of its measures and assess their actual impact on pensioners. For their part, the Social Democrats are prepared to look for other savings, and we have already presented them. Taking care of the livelihoods of the elderly and other people who earn pension measures our values. In addition, it is a social agreement that is the basis of the welfare state as a whole. We, who are working, have the security of wages or entrepreneurial income. In addition, we are assured that we will be cared for even after our own earning capacity has diminished. Addressing the livelihood of pensioners means that we can no longer rely on the welfare pact. Uncertainty affects all of us. Mr President! The government seems to treat pensioners as a population that no longer has anything to give. This is a misconception. Even though pensioners have done their daily work and earned their livelihoods, they are still an asset to society. They support their loved ones, whether it is the urgent help of families with children or the work of a family carer. These voluntary works are worth money, but above all, these works maintain a sense of community and teach responsibility to others. Pensioners are not passive, they are active.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u140	Madam President! It is true that, especially in difficult times, the human heart is measured in political decision-making, the sensitivity of human beings is measured. I am somewhat surprised, although this debate during the debatable phase was rather intense, all in all, the general lukewarmness of this debate on the mid-term issue. We remember from the last parliamentary term that very often during the debate on the interim issue there could be speeches close to a hundred, sometimes even more. But this time there were only about 40 speeches. Makes you wonder if the opposition is still so serious or more serious than it is when it comes to running out of office. However, it is important that the position of older people in Finnish society is constantly discussed and that attention be paid to the situation in the lives of pensioners and other older people. In the run-up to the election, I remember a well-earned pensioner telling me seriously — this person is a good friend — that 'I'm doing well'. He meant himself. But then he looked at a group of pensioners who were on an election night where there was soup distribution, and he said in the same breath: "But there are a lot of those who simply don't get along." There have been these blackmails all the way. Much has been said about them today and more or less wanted to be guilty of past governments. However, we must courageously look forward to how, even in a difficult situation, we can ensure that older people are able to enjoy a dignified evening of life, that they have a decent standard of living and that they are able to live, and above all that they are able to experience dignity in their lives. Mr President! I hope that Minister Mäntylä, at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, will take this very seriously — and hopefully there will already be a response in the Ministry — to Sitra’s system of tax deductions for domestic services. I think this is a fine national and fair innovation on the one hand. This is precisely what makes it possible to live in a place of dignity and to live in a home environment. This is a fair system in that there is, on the one hand, a system of tax deductions, but, on the other hand, for those who have low pension incomes and who cannot take advantage of the tax deduction aspect, it would be possible for it to benefit low-income pensioners by providing direct support to those who do not have the opportunity and tax is not sufficient for tax deductions. I hope that, even if this is not the case in the Government Programme, this kind of innovation would be taken forward, because this would be just and yet in line with the spirit of the Government Programme, that it would enable older people to live at home of the highest quality possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u141	Mr President! I listened carefully to the representative. It does, and should I say, as if it were a little nicer, that it was very contradictory. He criticised the opposition, the representative used a pretty strong term that we have been brawling here, brawling. Then Kivela in her own speech, however, ended up in this kind of reflection about the precious evening of life, the reasonable level of living, so that elderly people can also experience dignity. Representative Kivelä, as has now been said, will result in 30,000 new low-income pensioner poverty as a result of this government’s decision. In this way
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u142	Madam President! What I meant was that the subject of the interim issue is entirely in order. There must be a debate on the status of the ageing population, but in the same breath it must be said that the opposition's argument has been to shoot with a hectare gun. After all, in four months this government has not driven pensioners to the brink of a dead end. Unfortunately, there are difficult issues, and they are within the framework of economic conditions, and if you were, Mr Gustafsson, the representative of the government party, you would be in such a difficult situation. Unfortunately, this is the context of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u143	Madam President! This is an attempt to convince us that there are no alternatives. There are always options in politics, usually based on values. Now I quote, 85 professors and the director of the research institute unequivocally: "The increase in customer fees, the reduction of medical benefits and the reduction of the housing allowance for pensioners, in particular, will weaken the financial position of pensioners, as women make up the majority of pensioners who are poor." This is a fact, this is not an invention of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u144	Then let us go back to the list of speakers. The next item is Mr Lehti, absent; Mr Vikman, absent; Mr Taimela, absent; Mr Korhonen on the spot — great!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u145	Thank you, Madam President. This encourages a young artist. Mr President! Government decisions on pensioners are not only cuts, but also improvements and development of older people's conditions, as key projects in home care for older people and strengthening family care for all ages. An additional EUR 75 million will be added to the development of informal care, an increase will be made in the guarantee pension, additional money will be made for the rehabilitation of veterans — and so on and so on. At the same time, local government finances are also strengthened in order to secure the necessary municipal services. The fact that, even from the point of view of pensioners, the ability of a municipal airport to organise services is central in many ways must now be borne in mind. After all, according to the various calculations made by the Association of Finnish Local Government, the cuts in the central government shares of municipalities during the last period mean in practice that municipalities will lose approximately EUR 10.5 billion of central government shares between 2012 and 2019, and it is clear that this will also affect the ability of municipalities to organise and provide the services that pension beneficiaries need, among other things. However, those cuts in the central government share also mean, in practice, that in the case of municipal tax, there are upward pressures, significant upward pressures, and they are particularly targeted at low and medium incomes. Against this background, thanks must be given to the fact that next year the deterioration of local government finances will stop and the local government finances will be improved after four years of deterioration. A balance of public finances is essential. The basis for this will be the structural reforms launched by the government. In addition to this, the government is unfortunately forced to make these difficult austerity decisions, which affect all sections of the population, including pensioners. With the action now being taken, the government wants to ensure that future generations also have access to secure livelihoods. I think it is very important that we now improve and try to improve services. The opposition is concerned that the income level will be weakened. However, I believe that the government has chosen a sensible path which also seeks to reduce costs for the services used by pensioners. At the same time, it will also support the maintenance of functional capacity. This is precisely what I understand the key projects are aimed at. I would also like to say that we should not fall into excessive intimidation here, but take account of the whole as far as public finances and the development of services are concerned. When public finances have to be adjusted, we are, of course, inevitably faced with unpleasant decisions. As far as pensioners are concerned, a whole which requires balancing and special monitoring is the transfer of pensioners to general housing allowance, as has been said many times here today. I think it is important for the government to moderate the proposal in the right direction. The Ministry estimates that this transfer will reduce the aid by around 70% of the beneficiaries, but it must also be borne in mind that, of course, by the same third of the beneficiaries, the aid will increase. In the background, it should also be borne in mind that the Ministry’s assessment that the main factor contributing to the reduction of the subsidy is the low level of eligible maximum housing expenditure for the general housing allowance compared to the maximum housing expenditure for the pensioner. In other words, the level of support for low-cost residents is not at stake in the same way as for those who, for one reason or another, have higher housing costs. As such, the basic approach seems as fair as it can be in the process of harmonising society’s systems. The transitional period and the protective sections further strengthen the tolerance of the change. Here, too, it would be reasonable to put an end to the intimidating of pensioners — again using these words. There is a risk that regional differences will arise during the transition period, for example, with the municipal groups of housing support, so it is worth Parliament's energy also to manage these risks and not to collect populist points.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u146	Mr President! The key project to strengthen home care is certainly a good one, and Minister Rehulak stressed in his speech that the government's aim is to diversify the forms and ways of living at home. I fully agree with these points. But for some reason the government has now forgotten that community homes, such as improved service housing, are also home residences, and now older people living in these community homes are in the worst position economically and also in terms of the quality of care, as nurseries fall and their financial situation worsens anyway. That is why I wish that the government would take a serious interest in this community home problem, because no matter how much we develop living in our own home, we will have an increasing number of people, especially those who live alone, who need home-like 24-hour care. This treatment should be active and rehabilitative so that it can:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u147	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u148	Madam President! When it is a place of thanks, thanks must be given, and here I want to publicly acknowledge the government's support for the development of the national development programme. During the last term of the government, I myself was in the ministry starting this really important development programme, and it is really great that the government is now bringing it to the finish line. This is very important for all Finnish family carers. But then I will quote once again these 85 professors and the head of the research institute who are concerned. They have made their demands for equality on 10 June, and they too, like the opposition, are calling for an assessment of the overall impact of government proposals. They point out that increases in customer fees, reductions in medical allowances and reductions in the housing allowance for pensioners, in particular, undermine the financial position of women pensioners, as women make up the majority of pensioners who are poor. Women's pensioners are more often than men and longer depend solely on public services because they are low-income and are older than men and, according to professors, they will have to face the impact of changing the definition of carers on the quality of services, i.e. this very vulnerable group. It has been decided to give the people a mixture of medicines whose interaction has not been evaluated by the government, at least so far. Now it is good that the government is going to make these delicate promises that this interim issue of the opposition will then possibly lead to a mandate for this overall impact assessment, because how can we take responsible political decisions if we do not know what these government savings will achieve not only in the short term but also in the long term, and not only in terms of money but also in terms of the human price that very vulnerable people will have to pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u149	Honorable Madam Speaker! I would like to say here once again that, when the responsible and responsible minister gave a response from the government, he gave a very detailed account of the impact assessments made. The Government Programme states that the impact assessment of draft laws will be improved. What we have raised on the part of the Assembly, for example, is that the documentation of these impact assessments should be brought, for example, to the general arguments of the budget, and we have not doubted it or raised the question that these assessments have not been carried out. I would like this debate to move forward now that the Minister has said that the impact assessments have been carried out. But it would be good if they were in the general budget justifications. We could then discuss the same figures, and that would perhaps make this debate more forward-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u150	As I said, it is good that these fine promises are coming, but last Thursday, Minister for Justice and Labour, Jari Lindström, said in Parliamentary Question Time that the government believes in its reforms. Faith is a good thing, of course, but in matters that affect people's lives so much we also need the ability to stop assessing the overall impact of the reforms, precisely by numbers and facts, and these have not been presented to us, at least in the opposition. The opposition's impact assessments are public goods, but what has been done in the government has not leaked to the public. So let's do it here, like the Prime Minister. Sipilä has stated, first the reforms and see the effects only after that? It will be too late then for quite a few ordinary Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u151	Let's take Mr. Heikkinen from there, and then let's take Mr. Pakkanen from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u152	Madam President! Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised a very important issue, this enhanced service housing unit and the household property, that things are comparable there to domestic conditions. Here too, it would be good to remember that home care support can also be provided in this form of institutional housing, and the use of home care support and awareness of its use is too limited. It would, for example, be able to help these people locally in this situation where this reduction in the housing allowance for the pensioner takes place. Secondly, it is also a good thing to recognise that these units of enhanced service housing are not quite homes everywhere. Soon my grandmother, who is 100 years old, will live in one of these, which a few years ago was a long - term care facility. Now it's just a name and payment address changed, but the same walls and nurses are there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u153	Mr Pakkanen has been waiting for quite a long time, so let us proceed with the debate in a moment, but now, Mr Pakkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u154	Thank you, Madam President. There has been a good debate here today on pensioners and housing aid for pensioners, and of course an important group of pensioners are for all of us, a large electorate and an active group in the elections. Of course, we must also thank pensioners: many pensioners understand the state of government at the moment, and at least I myself have also received a lot of feedback from pensioners that you should do something now, and they understand that painful solutions also have to do with pensioners. For us working population groups, this social pact would be an important issue, and if it were to move forward, it would be possible to avoid these painful cuts in what the government is going to have to do in this difficult situation. We've been asking for options here. I thought option 1 was on 19 April when the election took place. At that time, the Finnish people wanted an alternative, and these alternatives and election promises are now being redeemed in the Sipilä government. A little bit of the opposition's criticism sometimes sounds a little inconvenient, and today, in the vote on another matter, it was found that the support of the opposition is lower than the number of absent MPs, so it seems a little inconvenient. Good speeches have been made here. Mr Kivelä's speech was just heard, partly emotional, but very substantive, and Mr Heikkinen's speech was also very well-informed. Madam President! This expected increase in social spending on the public side has been known for a very long time, from the last century's point of view, if you could say so. In the last three years alone, the change has been intense. In 2012, public social expenditure amounted to EUR 60 billion and last year to EUR 66 billion, i.e. an increase of 10% in three years is a sign that something needs to be done. The structural change in services has progressed too slowly, so the pace of change needs to be stepped up. The dependency ratio in Finland continues to deteriorate. In the 1990s, the proportion of the population aged over 65 was still 13 per cent, and now it is 20. If we cannot react to this, this situation will only become even more difficult. The well-being and happiness of pensioners consist of many things. In government proposals, informal care support, home care are developed and housing is supported at home. These are all good and important things. The healthier the pensioners and we people live, the better things will be, but in order to promote health, the government also makes these key projects. What increases in well-being bring to people when they improve their quality of life and reduce the health gap can not even be measured in money at all times. Exercise, a healthy diet and the association of loved ones, which is sometimes not always emphasised enough, are the things that really matter to people, especially pensioners. In addition, many pensioners are affected by the contributions made by this government, tens of millions of euros more money for informal care, home care and family care. Everyone seems to be taking care of the situation and the ability to cope, well, rightly, but this government also takes practical steps from the speeches. A further EUR 75 million will be made available per year to help carers cope with their needs, and an additional EUR 30 million will be invested in key projects in the coming years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u155	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Mäntylä for the mid-term debate and the answers. Representative Tuppurainen here wondered that in his group speech the Finnish people dug up the esteemed Minister Lipponen — not so much now but the work of the Lipponen government — and President Rinne then dug up Santeri Alkion. So much for looking into history. The Finns are still a party for a small person, and we regard pensioners as no isolated part of the people but as part of the people who built this land. It feels tough to cut anyone's income, and sooner or later we'll all be pensioners, at least hopefully. Pensioners have both high and low incomes and in between. It is up to the Finns of Peru to appear that the most low incomes are not taken and the most high incomes can give more. I am also opposed to going to paradise islands with millions of pensions at the end of the day without paying taxes to Finland or anywhere. Of course, we can listen to explanations that people have the right to do so because they have given this country so much, but on the other hand, we can rightly ask what the country has done for them too. It has been offered free health care, education and one of the best societies in the world to try. Here the agreements are done and we can count on the fact that when you wake up in the morning, no revolution has been started or unduly confiscated. I understand the concerns of the low-income people and say, as Minister Soini said earlier, that the party is assuming its responsibilities in the government. The Finns of Peru were in government negotiations where the following things were achieved — this is, forgive, repeat, but still: guarantee pension increases, support for informal care is increased, income support is indexed and transferred to Kela. This also applies to many pensioners, and we must remember that we have young pensioners: depression is a single reason why people under the age of 30 retire, and we must do something about this too. Pensioners are a very diverse group, and it is pointless to claim that everyone has similar needs or a similar situation in life. VAT will not rise, food and medicines will remain at lower tax rates, and this will also apply to pensioners' purses. The tax is abolished from 300,000 low-income earners, a large proportion of whom are pensioners. The Sewage Regulation is being relaxed, so there is no need to fear that thousands of investments will have to be made because of the waste water of some lonely grandmother. Entrepreneurship reduction will improve and this will also have an impact on entrepreneurship pensions and future entrepreneurship pensioners. Solidarity tax will be tightened, capital tax will be increased, the status of municipalities will also be strengthened by the support of pensioners. Finally, I would like to say that this is not about to abolish the systems. We are not abolishing social security or abolishing health care, we are not abolishing social safety nets. And as stated in the group talk of the Finns of Peru, no one will be left behind in the midst of the change. Representative Hannakaisa Heikkinen drew attention to the role of care assistants in nursing work. I can sign this as long as the education of the care assistant is a degree that is strictly considered as part of the degree in the basic social and health care degree. And even if this opens up new staff groups in nursing work, it must be remembered that the responsibility will always remain there – I myself have a carer’s background – supervision will remain, the need for authorisation will remain and, above all, a high level of nursing training and research work will remain in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u156	Mr President! According to Eurostat’s September statistics, the cost of Finnish public finances in relation to GDP is higher than in any other EU country. So they are unquestionably, certainly, oversized. Finland’s debt is not yet at its peak, but it is growing rapidly despite the government’s plans. Exports are not going well, and high unemployment seems to continue to grow. This means that a correction must be made. The savings planned by the government aim at reducing public finances. We all participate in these joint projects: pensioners, students, workers, to some extent children. However, savings are only one part of the repair movement. The second and more significant part is the government's key projects aimed at reforming policies which have been operating since the beginning of the decade but are no longer functioning as such today. The aim of the policy reform is in particular to improve employment, thereby improving competitiveness and ultimately safeguarding the well-being of Finnish citizens in the future. Mr President! Of course, STM has assessed the effects of the surgeries. For example, about 2% of pensioners receiving housing allowance have medical or travel costs so high that they reach those ceilings. In other words, 98% of pensioners who receive housing allowance do well with less medicines or fewer trips. The increase in the cost of medicines per capita would be an average of EUR 15 per year, something that cannot be said to be unreasonable. Of all users of medicines, who are not all pensioners, there are about 1.3 million Finns receiving special compensation, and more than one in ten of them would have more than EUR 50 per year, but for the rest, the increase is less than EUR 50 per year. This could be a step towards the Yle-Tax, and the abolition of the Yle-Tax will also bring savings of between EUR 50 and EUR 70 per year for the guaranteed pensioner. But if you think of a mere change in housing allowance, there are pensioners whose housing allowance improves. Furthermore, according to estimates made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, these include, in particular, low incomes, people living in small dwellings and young pensioners, such as those with mental disabilities or those who are sick and retired at a young age. The biggest loss would be those pensioners whose pension income is more than 20,000 euros a year if there were not a protective component. Mr President! A few words about the nurse’s composition raised on the intermination issue. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to caring for elderly and long-term ill people in the health centre’s ward, in the nursing home or in an enhanced service housing unit, how much do you think about daily work, my friends, is medical care, that is, treatment that is absolutely necessary for a nurse? I am referring here to what Mr Heikkinen has just said. I myself have spent my entire life — 38.5 years — working in such care facilities. When it comes to long-term sick people and often elderly people, their health will remain unchanged for long periods of time and they will mainly need basic care. You don't need a degree — people and a pair of hands. Mr President! After all, surgery does not seem comfortable, and of course a small increase in the guarantee pension does not compensate for losses. In this context, however, it should be borne in mind that in the event of a deterioration of the condition, the pensioner is entitled to various levels of care allowance, which are non-taxable pension benefits. The cuts listed in the intermediate question may be acceptable after all if, as an alternative, society is not at all able to support the medical treatment of sick people, the housing of elderly people, the cost of repeated journeys. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, that is the kind of country that exists. Each of these savings bill proposals will be submitted to Parliament in due course. It should also be noted that, for example, the law on uniting housing benefits has not yet been introduced into Parliament. Of course, there is a draft. I hope that pensioners will be treated in a manner consistent with other recipients of housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u157	Madam President! In government activities, pensioners are also affected by a number of positive issues. The most low-income pensioners have been paid a guarantee pension since 2011, and the city centre made it possible to do so. We have to take care of the weakest. It has now been decided to improve the situation of the smallest pensioners by raising the guarantee pension. EUR 30 million will be invested in guarantee pension from the beginning of 2016, and therefore by just over 20 euros the guarantee pension will increase. The intermediate issue calls on the government not to extend tax reductions to pensioners. On the other hand, the taxation of pensioners is not being tightened and tax reductions are also promised if wage moderation and competitiveness targets are successful. It should also be borne in mind that, especially for low-income pensioners, the benefit of tax reductions is very low. The services required by pensioners in their daily lives will therefore be improved in many ways and may have a significantly greater impact on the daily lives of individual pensioners. The status of family carers will be improved. The family and family carers' leave system will be developed and expanded and EUR 75 million will be allocated annually. Similarly, the services to be taken home will be improved. In the home care of the elderly, investments are made, the status of veterans is improved and the disadvantage rate of the war-qualified is reduced. This will therefore amount to EUR 10 million per year starting from 17. Home care for the elderly and family care for all ages are on the top of the board's list of projects, and it is quite historic that well-being is the top project for once, and it also says something about the fact that for the first time in Finnish history there is also a family minister in the board. A concrete measure in terms of well-being is that older people, family and family carers should have more equal and better coordinated services. Of course, you can ask why these similar measures have not been taken before. The intermediate issue gives the impression that the present government would discipline pensioners in some cruel way. It is a real shame that pensioners are being intimidated in this way by a bad government. Surgery is done in this economic situation for everyone, it is a fact and it is also a sad thing, but the underlying idea behind all the government's activities is one thing clear in the mind over the others, and yes it is that this country needs to be put in order. Maybe this has been repeated so many times that somehow the core is blurred. Making public finances in order and creating new jobs is a top priority, precisely because it increases state revenue. Hopefully, more measures can be taken to improve the services of pensioners in the long run, but first we must be able to increase the cake so that it can be distributed. I do not deny that the transfer of the housing allowance for pensioners to the general housing allowance or, for example, the increase in the share of the allowance for medicines would reduce the amount of the individual pensioner's cash in hand. Of course it is when it comes to surgery. In the case of pensioners receiving housing allowance, almost all of them receive medical benefits, but in travel expenses, for example, an increase in annual own resources, i.e. an increase of 5%, is estimated. Two per cent of pensioners receiving housing allowance exceeded the ceiling on reimbursement of both medical and travel expenses last year. I say this because we are also getting things into perspective. Of course, whether the impact of an individual adjustment measure is large or small, it is always absolutely essential that a minimum income be guaranteed for each pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u158	Madam President! The government cuts apply to all pensioners and especially to those on low incomes. The average pension is approximately 1500 euros a month, and up to a quarter of pensioners receive less than 1000 euros a month. When the income of low-income pensioners is cut, the decision also has significant effects on equality. The majority of pensioners who are poor are women — women who may have cared for children at home, worked as a farmwife, or otherwise worked only on a small salary. Income is also stricter, especially for older pensioners. In Finland, it has traditionally been understood that older generations should be supported so that they can continue to live a decent life even after their working lives. When older people have lower earnings than younger ones, their livelihoods have been supported in many ways. One way has been to keep service charges affordable in social and health services, which, of course, are used more by older people than the rest of the population. Municipal social services have been brought to homes so that people can manage as independently as possible in their own homes. Housing costs, which tend to rise year after year, have been compensated by housing subsidies higher than those capable of working. As age grows, different diseases begin to manifest themselves, life has been possible with the support of this surrounding society. The government’s stubborn cuts threaten, if not completely scrapped, at least seriously undermine this system of good and just. The excessiveness of the pensioner’s housing allowance has not escaped even the attention of the government, which has since developed complex and difficult ways to mitigate the cut. Unfortunately, this relaxation is temporary for many and also does not apply to future low-income pensioners. The government's savings are particularly targeted at those who suffer from poor health. Increases in medical benefits and travel expenses are already a big gap in the livelihoods of many. For many, the government's intention to increase social and health care charges by a significant amount may prove even more significant. The increase in the guarantee pension is a mild comfort, as the index freezes will have brought it to an end by the end of the parliamentary term. The government has defended the abolition of housing allowance for pensioners, mainly by clarifying and harmonising the housing allowance system. The clarification of the social security system is right in itself, but it is now simply being cut without even trying to develop the housing allowance system as a whole. The talk of equality, on the other hand, is misleading. The level of general housing allowance and the system as a whole have been affected by the desire to encourage its recipients to work at the same time. There is little need for such incentives for disabled and elderly pensioners, which is why the housing allowance for pensioners has been higher. For income support and bread line, this cutting of these people encourages instead. Mr President! The cuts in pensioners are also targeted at people with physical disabilities and disability. A large proportion of people with disabilities have never been in employment and their income is essentially a guarantee and national pension. The increase in the allowance for sickness insurance will mean that, especially at the beginning of each year, these people will have a very difficult time. The common sense of the country says, and certainly the sense of the city, that problems arise when the income of the same group of people is reduced and expenses are increased simultaneously. Unfortunately, we are also mainly dependent on common sense, because we have still not had a proper assessment of what these cuts, as a whole, really mean to a sick pensioner, an invalidity pensioner, a disabled person, for example. We have not received these reports, although the Government’s own guidelines clearly state that legislative projects should be seen as a whole in the assessment of the effectiveness of the drafting of legislation, in which case an individual act or measure will be of particular importance as part of the whole. Many people have doubted that the government has not fully considered this issue when the savings have been decided at a rapid pace. Economicists were consulted, but were social policy experts consulted? It's not enough just common sense, it's not enough city reason. There is a need for facts and key figures to enable us in Parliament to make decisions and justify decisions to voters. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u159	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The abolition of housing allowance for pensioners is wrong and unfair. This form of support applies not only to the elderly but to all pensioners. The decision will therefore have an impact on the livelihood of people with disabilities and long-term ills and thus on welfare in general and on the realisation of equal participation. The terms of the housing allowance for pensioners have been slightly better than the general housing allowance, precisely because of the lack of resources and limited earning opportunities for the beneficiaries. It has been a matter of positive special treatment for the promotion of equality. In practice, disabled people and long-term ill people often cannot choose their housing solution and thus reduce their housing costs; instead, because of their disability needs, they have to accept a provided service dwelling or rent other accessible housing available. The prices of housing solutions suitable for people with disabilities are relatively high due to the lack of supply compared to demand, and the rents of service housing are generally quite high compared to ordinary dwellings of the same level. The need for a disabled person’s condition may also be based on the need for a personal assistant, support person, speech or sign language interpreter to cope with everyday life or the need for a separate, peaceful space at home due to sensory hypersensitivity or challenging behaviour due to an injury. A person with disabilities or long-term illness can rarely adapt to a reduction in the level of housing allowance by acquiring additional earnings in order to cope with their housing costs, as a large proportion of them are guaranteed pensioners who are permanently inactive. The proposed abolition of housing allowance for pensioners, together with other planned cuts and savings, such as cuts in medical allowances and increases in social and health care charges and the ownership of health care trips, will result in many already deprived and disadvantaged people, the long-term sick and the elderly being exposed to financial distress and thus long-term income support intended as a last resort. Ministers, why are you taking the last hundred dollars from people with disabilities and long-term illnesses? In practice, the EUR 23 increase in the guarantee pension will lose its full meaning if the housing allowance for the pensioner is abolished and the housing allowance for the beneficiaries of the guarantee pension will fall significantly more than the amount of their guarantee pension will increase, also taking into account the fact that the increase in the guarantee pension will in itself have a negative impact on the housing allowance. The proposed abolition of housing allowance has a significant impact on the livelihood and status of people with disabilities, long-term illnesses and the elderly, both from a basic and human rights perspective. It is absolutely necessary to request an opinion from the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee and the human rights impact must be properly assessed. I hope the government withdraws its intention. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! A strong task is to support the weak.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u160	Mr President! There are still too many people in Finland whose level of pensions does not secure a decent income. In Finland, the poverty rate among people aged over 75 is high, i.e. 19.5% of them live below the EU poverty threshold and nearly one third of those over 85. This is quite high among the EU countries. Thirty-nine per cent of those standing in the bread line last year were pensioners. We should therefore be concerned about the future of the citizens who are being subjected to government pension cuts. The government promises an increase of EUR 23 in guarantee pensions, but unfortunately this increase will remain a cosmetic improvement among other savings. The Government intends to review the level of benefits linked to national pension and consumer indices in accordance with the index that has been reduced to a minus mark in 2016. It means cutting people's daily livelihoods. Surgery weakens purchasing power and directly affects domestic consumer demand. Negative amendments should not be carried out. In pursuing savings, the Government will also abolish the housing allowance for the pensioner and transfer the beneficiaries to the general housing allowance. This will mean a cut of up to EUR 60 in already low incomes. Separate housing support schemes have enabled the specific characteristics of the beneficiary groups to be taken into account. The basis for the housing allowance for the pensioner is different from that for the general housing allowance. One purpose has been to support housing at home for low-income pensioners, which is why the maximum housing expenditure has been increased in line with the rent development. In the major cities in particular, the opportunities for cheap housing are very limited. It is not appropriate to give pensioners anxiety about how they will cope with the housing costs that will rise in the future. For many pensioners, social life and well-being are essential in ensuring that the living environment and the living environment are safe and familiar, that friends and hobbies are accessible and so on. The government, in its most cost-effective way, has not taken any account of these human things in everyday life. At worst, cutting reduces people's well-being and everyday ability to function and increases costs in social and health services. Cutting primary benefits drives people into income support customers. Mr President! A large group of people in need of medicines are being bullied by raising their own responsibility and reducing travel expenses. The effects of increasing the contribution of patients have also been examined from studies conducted in different countries on reimbursement of medicines. Based on the study evidence, increasing the share of ownership will reduce the use of medicines. High ownership may also reduce the start of new treatments. In one case, it has also been found to impair the health of users of medicines and to increase the use of other health services. The increase in the insured contribution may therefore have negative effects from the point of view of increasing health inequalities. This is already happening in Finland. The increase in travel expenses increases the costs of insured persons travelling because of illness. Travel allowances are targeted in particular at sparsely populated areas, low incomes and older people. Customer fees for social welfare and health services will also rise. On the contrary, we should now speed up the long-awaited reform of social and health care charges, travel costs and the capping of pharmaceutical costs. This could solve the problem of rising payments for many people on low incomes. Dietary allowance, or what is known as coeliac disease allowance, is removed from those who need it. It is wrong to abolish the reimbursement that is comparable to the reimbursement of medicines. Untreated celiac disease can lead to costly and difficult diseases. As a result, the financial situation of pensioners will deteriorate considerably over the next four years. These decisions are very difficult to understand because more and more older people are trapped in poverty if money is simply no longer enough to live. In fact, many people have to wonder whether this month will buy drugs or food, when both of them will no longer have enough money. Increases in customer fees, reductions in medical benefits and reductions in the housing allowance for pensioners weaken the financial position of pensioners in particular, as women make up the majority of pensioners who are poor. Indeed, many of them are also loners. Women’s average pension income is just under EUR 16,000 per year compared to men’s good 20,000. Female pensioners rely more often and longer on public services alone because they are more low-income and live longer than men. They will also have to face the impact of changing the size of the care provider on the quality of the services. Indeed, even the present government is going to degrade the care of the elderly by mastering the nurseship of experts, which is now at a very low level. The level of civilization in society is measured by how it treats its weakest. Measured by this measure, the government does not get very high points.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u161	Madam President! According to the OECD comparison, Finnish pensioners living alone are among the poorest in Western Europe. This will appear to us in our society, for example, in bread queues, where pensioners with their nearly 40% share are the largest single group. As a follow-up to the recent debate and as an attempt to participate in it myself, I can only suggest that a bread line should be set up before the Parliament House, so that no one can turn a blind eye to these things. This is important because the government of our country is cutting these very people who already have little or nothing. On the other hand, the government's actions unfortunately but fortunately show very clearly that it does not want to take responsibility for those who have once built Finland into an equal welfare society. However, the opposition also assumes responsibility for the less well-off and has therefore raised an intermediate issue. It is good to invest in living at home and in family care, both economically and from a human perspective. However, we should remember that even today, more than 50,000 people live in intensive care, nursing homes and wards of health centers, which are similar to home care. They are defenseless from these surgeries because it is estimated that only half of them have some degree of memory disorder and they all need the help of another person to cope with very daily and self-explanatory things. These people are being cut, taken away, weakened by their fundamental rights. That is unacceptable. According to new THL studies, half of them have not been released in the last month. I would therefore ask everyone, especially the fundamental right-wing representatives, to put themselves in the position of such a person in 24-hour care with reduced mobility. Let us think for a month in this room, depending on another person's help. Surely it would not be a comfort to have one nurse on the evening shift of the present 0.4-tween 20 people. In that situation, the nurse would not be able to ask individually what we want, but would do what she could. We could hardly dream of going out here, but soon we would certainly appeal to the same law that the EU has guaranteed for cows, that is, its right to go out. Let us hope that this reality-based story and our image training managed to open the eyes of at least one of the MPs in the government that this government policy is not fair in this respect either. The reduction in housing allowance envisaged by the government, the reduction in medical fees, the increase in customer fees and this weakening of the staffing capacity are therefore the ones most likely to hit those people who are defenceless. Since care and care became a business, it is also legitimate to ask questions. The cost of improved service housing has increased significantly in recent years. At the moment, companies take care of more than half of our elderly. Most of these are multinational healthcare listed companies. Given that municipal improved service housing is being built very little due to the economic situation of municipalities and that these multinationals are taking over the market by purchasing small care companies, this development is not sustainable and should be addressed. I believe that this should be addressed by the government and, for example, by legislation to strengthen the payment policy for care services for older people, for example, through this desirable bill on customer fees, that everyone is guaranteed access to money, or the fundamental rights of the elderly through the self-determination law, which has been expected. In conclusion, however, I can say that we young generations feel irresponsible about the government's actions, the way it treats older people, and I therefore agree with the opposition's view that the issue of the interim has been raised on the subject and that neither Parliament nor the pensioners deserve the confidence of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u162	Madam President! The mid-term debate today has been a very step-by-step debate, and one can say that this is probably the most up-to-date issue for the government. But on the other hand, all governments over the last few decades have had more or less to deal with this same issue, so there is nothing new in the world. You can say, as I said earlier in that reply, that there is a pot on the pot and a black side on both sides. For example, Mr Nurminen’s speech just felt that the world was going down and that there was no good anymore. That is not true, quite the contrary, many things have been improved. And think, ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation in Finland: if we do not stop this debt crisis, this economic slump, that option is the worst option for both the opposition and the government, for all the representatives of Finland and for Finland as a whole. If we do not now find that sense in this house, then political talk will no longer help. For example, the deterioration of our credit rating: if the interest rate rises by 1%, it will take a billion out of the state budget. What does it do to our mortgage debtors or to the people who owe money? It's the worst poison there can be. In this context, for example, the impact of the increase in VAT on the economy is very small, the impact of the miniaturisation class compared to the rise in interest rates. It's not funny, no one. That is why I would like to see this matter taken seriously. Of course, in this economic situation, we have to cut. Everyone's got their share to bear. I'm sure we'll take care of the weaker ones, and there's no such thing as a bogeyman around the corner on this one. The opposition has taken a strong course of intimidation. Of course, the opposition has the full freedom to do so, but I wonder that people are given the impression that there is a situation in this country — that is not the case. Guarantee pension will be increased, informal care will be developed by EUR 75 million per year, home care conditions will also be improved, there will be more money and bets. Then the caps on public health are still in force; they have not gone anywhere: EUR 679 per year. The medicine cap is still valid, and it has not gone anywhere. And now in this hall is the image given that the whole world is going to fall. I refer to the speeches made by Mr Ben Zyskowicz, for example, about the cuts that have been made during the last government: these are the same things we have all done, but I would like us to give each other a little mercy and dignity, that we are not really talking about the fact that the world is falling on the back of the head tonight — that is not the case. In this context, I would like to thank the worthy ministers on the ground. They have persisted in defending the government's line and it is honourable that during this long debate they have been present. For that, thank you very much. Then, Mr President, the situation of social welfare reform is certainly extremely important for all of us, especially for pensioners. It is important that the services in this country work well in the municipalities, with a reasonable burden of payment, and that local services genuinely exist: that the doctor is there at the health centre and that many other things work as before and even a little better. This is why, as has been pointed out, a great deal of attention must be paid to the finances of the municipalities in this government's programme. We can keep the economy in order, and the municipalities are the providers of the service. What, then, is the new world when the social welfare reform comes into force? Even in that situation, the municipality still has an important role to play. When we talk about social reform, we are also talking about how this country usually goes and whether we can provide these services to people — the services that we all necessarily need in our lives. When there is a well-being municipality, there are well-being services and well-being people. I'm sure this equation is true. Finally, Madam President, I believe that the most important thing in this matter of putting the economy as a whole in order, and also in dealing with this matter, is whether we can overcome unemployment. If we are unable to do anything about unemployment, it will mean that the debt spiral is getting worse, that the finances of municipalities are deteriorating, that services are weakening and, above all, the pension provision that every Finn earns with his work will not accumulate, and that he will be in trouble at an older age when he retires. This situation in Finland's economy is such a complex equation at the moment that I would like the Finnish Parliament to have a slightly broader look at the way we look over this Government-Opposition setting and really start putting the country in order. That is where the government has made many good proposals, and I believe they will go through, and I hope that such intimidation that the whole world will fall tonight is not true. Asterix once feared that the sky would fall on his neck, but still it hasn't fallen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u163	Representative Salolainen, absent; representative Suutari, absent; representative Kymäläinen, absent; representative Alanko-Kahiluoto, absent; representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen present — great!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u164	Mr President! This has been a very important debate on values, because it really is worth it. I would also like to thank Minister Ruhula and Minister Mäntylä for being here throughout the debate. This has been a very valuable thing for you to have wanted to hear these very diverse speeches. Almost everything has already been said here, but I would like to reply to the speech made to Mr Heikkinen a long time ago when we were talking about enhanced service housing. I fully agree with Mr Heikkinen that improved service housing is not always home today. This means that the sign has really just been replaced there on the door: there used to be a ward, and now it is an enhanced service housing. But it's supposed to be home. That is what we are trying to do to get out of that institutionality and to build homes for people and that they are community homes. That is why here today I have so strongly emphasised the responsibility of the government for this enhanced service housing, i.e. the development of community homes, that the debate would not be about how it would be in its own home, but also about the enhanced service housing being that community home. Now we have to take into account that home is not just walls, it is also an active, self-looking life, doing things together and doing things together, outdoor activities and all kinds of things like this. Yes, the concern is that if that nurseship is weakened, the feeling of a home will be very difficult to achieve. If there is only one nurse in turn for about ten people, how can you arrange that home with all the varied home - related things? Minister Rehula — or Minister Vehviläinen, I do not remember now, but one of you said that the municipalities are not obliged to follow the recommendations. That is the case, but when, unfortunately, it is so often the case that the minimum recommendation becomes the maximum, that is to say, it becomes the guiding principle to do these things. That is why I am now asking Minister Rehula or Minister Mäntylä — which one of you is in charge: will the government instruct the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u165	Madam President! In this speech, I would like to comment on some of the speeches that have been made here. First of all, warm thanks to Mäkisalo-Ropponen. The nurse usually recognizes the nurse; however, the basic understanding that there is a lot of good, but there is always something to develop, and all in our turn we try to bring to it. I am often able to refrain from clicking on the opposition side at any time, but now I am different from this. In his moving speech, Mr Eloranta brought up, among other things, these bread lines — some other speaker used these bread lines — and he had also noticed that there have been many people there last year. The question arises as to why the previous government did not react to this at the beginning of the year if it now seems to be such a big deal. Representative Nurminen spoke with merit, and he has often said a very good thing at other times about people with memory problems and people with long-term care. But I would like to remind you, as a nurse who specializes in such dementing diseases, that the memory disorder is, listen, that it does not choose who it comes to, so that if it is to come — it is in the genetic heritage, or someone else’s willingness to do so — it does come to the poor as well as the rich, that this is not a matter of disparateness to us. Secondly, Mr Nurminen, who has already left the Chamber but may hear this elsewhere: For me, too, the surroundings of Koukkuniemi Hospital in Tampere are very familiar. There I have started my career at the turn of the millennium, and I remember well how it felt to be a trained nurse there. I do not think that, even now, and I do not believe that, even if it were to be kept at 0.5 levels, this would be successful, but I see as the solution to the problem, as I pointed out in my previous speech, that care workers, volunteers, relatives, people who have the opportunity to have a heart in place must be involved in this valuable work, which is not a medical job, but it is a care job, it is stimulating work, the measures that make it worth living in an institution, a long-term care or a person living at home: he will have access to the news of the day, to outdoors, to care for cleanliness, to discuss, to be part of this society. I do not think that a nurse needs to be trained to do this. A lot less is enough. As long as the heart is in place, I think that knowledge, basic knowledge, basic citizenship, is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u166	Mr President! When Mr Hakkarainen is here, I will comment briefly on your speech, when I find it inconceivable that the Green Left is accused that we are 'crowding', a verbatim quote. In this context, you referred to these migratory movements and, in part, to the economic plight. However, I would now like to say that the Green Left has no part to play in what is happening in Syria and Iraq, but I do not think that the Finns have anything to do with it either. And as far as this economic situation in our country is concerned, there are many reasons for this, but I cannot help but say to Mr Hakkarainen that when the paper industry collapsed after 2007-2008, it accounted for 5% of GDP between 2007 and 2008 and is now 1.5%, and that is not the fault of the Green Left either. Another reason for our economic problems is the collapse of the electronics industry in those peak years. At the time, it accounted for about 7 per cent of GDP, mainly thanks to Nokia. It has come to about 1.5 per cent. Was that Nokia's collapse the Green Left's fault? Probably wasn't, and we've been reading in the papers for the past few weeks. That's it. Then Mr Korhonen, who is not present, implied in plain language that when the elections were held on 19 April, the result of the elections has justified various measures, austerity measures, cuts. It is not quite as simple as that, because the bourgeois parties, which were successful in the elections, did not say at all about cuts in employment appropriations, cuts in education and research, not about these cuts in pensions, forced legislation or anything else. That is why the opposition has both the duty and the right to address the shortcomings which have now been raised in the two interim issues. A large number of scientists, scientists and interested parties have addressed both this social pension issue and these cuts in education. And then, while there is Minister Mäntylä: I did get the floor at the debat, but I did not get the response when Minister Mäntylä commented on my own speech, in which I pointed out that this government's pensioner housing allowance cut can also be assessed from such a moral point of view that it is right that the government should make about 30,000 new poor people with this decision. I said that we could talk about such a moral deficit, when Minister Mäntylä then in his own speech, mentioning my name, raised this alongside the increase in state debt, that during the previous government and thus would have become 15 billion more then. Okay, I also think that we can assess the state debt from a moral point of view from the point of view of the generations, but honestly and analytically we should say that without the growth in government debt in a situation where, as I said a moment ago, GDP was affected, we would also have had to cut down on the future of children and young people, the maternity clinic, pre-school education, education, services for the elderly, services for the disabled and so on. It must be seen that this sovereign debt has also been sought to hold to the basic services of the welfare state. Instead, when we talk about housing aid for pensioners, we are making more poor people, and I think that shows moral hazard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u167	Madam President! First of all, I want to say hello to the Family Caretakers and Closest of the Federation. I come from there, and the moods there were very contradictory in that, on the one hand, we are very pleased that the government is investing in informal care, but at the same time people are very uncertain about their own future in relation to other measures alongside informal care. But I was encouraged and the parliament and the government were encouraged from there to hope that Parliament will make wise decisions, which also affect families and people in general. Mr President! The government's cuts to pensioners are short-sighted, poorly justified, and the big problem is that their impact has not been properly assessed. However, it is obvious that the abolition of housing allowance for pensioners, the reduction of medical and travel allowances and the increase in service charges are particularly true for low-income pensioners. With these measures, the government will increase inequality and poverty in Finland. I am very concerned about the effects of surgery on family carers. After all, the government parties have spoken out strongly in favour of informal care, which in itself has been a good thing, both before and after the elections. Many family caregivers have been able to receive housing allowance for pensioners regardless of the income of other persons living in the same household. This has made it much easier, for example, to take care of an elderly family member at home. Now this benefit is being cut. The fact that the services brought home are not covered by the ceiling system also complicates informal care. In practice, this means that people pay for their services themselves. Our aim is still to make it easier for the elderly and the disabled to survive at home, both for human reasons and because this becomes considerably cheaper for the municipalities than other alternatives. The fact that the government is trying to facilitate the foster arrangement of family carers is a good thing in this situation, but at the same time in so many ways it makes the everyday life of informal care more difficult. There is a great risk that, in the future, fewer people will have sufficient resources, resources and the ability to care for a loved one in their own home. As the population grows older and the dependency ratio deteriorates, we simply cannot afford this. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the situation of pensioners living alone. There are nearly 400,000 people over 65 in Finland who live alone. One third of the long-term sick and invalidity pensioners, on the other hand, are persons living alone. After all, we know from studies that living alone is often linked to low incomes, among other things because housing costs account for most of the income. On average, poor health, depression and unhealthy lifestyles are more common than the rest of the population. Also, those living alone often do not have the support network of relatives and loved ones that could help in the midst of various income and health problems. These people need social support in the form of housing allowance, health insurance allowances and reasonable service charges. When various cuts have been discussed, it has repeatedly been said by the MPs of the government that the last government did, and that there is no alternative to these cuts. First of all, there is no excuse for future cuts with past cuts. We know that those on low incomes have already been pushed very hard. Finland’s basic security is already low, and it is questionable whether it is enough to live a decent life at all. The situation of these people cannot be further undermined by the fact that it has been weakened in the past. This should be clear especially to the city centre and the people of Peru who, in the past and especially during the last parliamentary term, have been deeply concerned about people with low incomes and basic security. Talks about a lack of alternatives are also unfounded. Even now, the government is spending more money on reducing the car tax than it is going to get on abolishing the housing allowance for pensioners. This is a pure choice of values. Madam President! Government ministers repeat that Finland is in a difficult economic situation, that we are in excessive debt and that something needs to be done. However, this cannot justify any kind of surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u168	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! As has been said here several times today, the government cuts the housing allowance for pensioners, increases the customer charges for social welfare and health services by more than 20%, cuts the reimbursement of medicines and travel expenses. These cuts reduce the purchasing power of pensioners and unduly reduce their ability to cope with everyday expenses. It is also noteworthy that the government does not pay any attention in its programme to poverty or the growing income gap. In February, the European Social Rights Committee pointed out Finland's insufficient minimum level of social security benefits. In its decision, it considered that the minimum income level for citizens in Finland is too low, i.e. that the level of basic Finnish security does not meet the requirements of the Council of Europe's Social Charter. When cuts to this already existing situation, which are carried out by the government without impact assessments, there is a situation where pensioners are being driven to the income support hatches. For many elderly people, however, that is an impossible idea. This easily leads to a spiral in which problems get worse. Many pensioners find themselves in a situation of choice between food or medicine, reduced fitness, and possible supplementary illnesses are true. With these, for example, living at home longer remains a pious hope. Mr President! As far as services for the elderly are concerned, the situation is no brighter. During the last parliamentary term, an old-age service law was introduced, which improved the daily lives of elderly people in many ways. That work should continue, for example, in the case of services taken home and in order to reduce the loneliness of older people. It is also still visible and many of us feel it in their skins and see many times in their eyes that we have too poor elderly people living at home. The government invests in the services and informal care to be taken home, but these investments are often lost at the feet of these cuts. The Government has also announced a reduction in the minimum number of personnel in enhanced service housing from 0.5 to 0.4. This is justified by the fact that the dimensioning is a mere number, yet the government focuses on playing with these numbers. If the dimensioning is just a number that has nothing to do with the real situation, why do you reduce it and, with it, the number of nurses to a very significant amount? I would understand these arguments if you would completely remove the dimension. If and when we are honest in this house and hall, the current economic situation is likely to lead to the minimum becoming the maximum. We are all aware of the situation in the care of the elderly. There are already too few pairs of hands to handle, and there is a great deal of pressure on the nurses today. I, too, would like to look back a little bit on the past, to the extent that you can get countless speeches from the ranks of the city centre and the Finns of Peru from the last parliamentary term, when you did not get the mastership of enhanced service housing directly into that old-age service law. At that time, both ranks were ridiculed and it was found that good treatment would not happen if and when this could not be achieved and recorded in the Act on Elderly Services. Well, what do you think of the old ones? It may be that the ministers sitting here were behind these speeches during the last parliamentary term — I did not go to check it out, but somehow I remember. Mr President! The cut-off package for government pensioners' incomes and services is so extensive that its interaction with people's everyday lives cannot even be accurately assessed. Some of the governments themselves have admitted that they are unjust, and some decisions have already been withdrawn, by whom and at what request. This chain of withdrawn decisions must now be accompanied by a completely unsustainable cut-off package for the government's pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u169	Mr President! As an expert on the treatment of memory disorders, I would like to say to Mr Heikkinen very warmly, collegially, that the implementation of good and rehabilitative care for people with memory disorders requires skilled and professional staff. It cannot be done only with the heart, although it is indeed needed with the good heart. Trained staff does not mean nurses, but training is needed. Research has shown, for example, that care communities with trained staff use much less sedative medicines, and non-pharmaceutical treatments, for example, require training. They cannot be implemented without training. Training staff are also required to maintain the overall functional capacity of people with memory disorders. Rehabilitation must take place seven days a week, and it is not enough for volunteers to come and do something from time to time. So this does not mean that I am underestimating the role of volunteers. They are needed, they do valuable work, but they cannot replace professional staff. How do I know this? I know that for ten years I have trained care communities in these matters and I have really been working with nurses to build these real community homes. I can therefore say from my own experience that I know what it takes to get a home from that nursing community.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u170	Madam President! Representative Taimela once again raised concerns about this nursing appointment, as did representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen. I also appreciate the professionalism of a colleague. In fact, we are talking about the same thing, but this opposition-government border is what separates us this time, fortunately not the province border anymore. It is certainly not intended to remove the dimension of trained staff in relation to the need for trained staff in each unit. But that is one of the objectives of this government to be able to involve more and more those who do not have the highest level of education to ensure that those skilled people are in the right place and that they are provided with better care everywhere than they are at present. I wasn't here last season to argue about the nurse's resolution. I was producing Finnish milk. That too is valuable work and also brings a good perspective to this evening’s milking work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u171	Madam President! To Mr Gustafsson, I would answer that when he said that 5% of the electronics industry has left and that about 5% of the forest industry has left, not all but a large part of it: yes, we are now in a double deficit. We have lost between 20 and 30 billion from the export industry and, at the same time, the public side has only grown. It's got to be dimensioned to the same relationship that's happened to us now. We have now tried to do the 15% competitiveness leap here, but it does not want to succeed at the moment. Nothing's going to happen. Nothing's going to happen. A work reform was carried out in Germany, I think, Schröder or who was the chairman of the Sos.dems at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u176	Madam President! I have to say here to Mr Hakkarainen that surely many low-income pensioners are thinking very much about that proof of how Finland should go down the road to Germany, and I am sure they will think about it in their own reality if the government's proposal comes true, that what Mr Hakkarainen meant there then. I do feel bad about this debate today and about the fact that this debate is needed and, above all, the government is proposing this reduction in the income of pensioners. I feel bad for low-income pensioners — women, men, people on sickness pensions, disabled people and, above all, those living alone. According to the Parliamentary Information Service, the government proposal increases the number of people below the poverty line to nearly half a million. In a country like Finland, almost half a million people live below the poverty line after your presentation. I have to wonder if this is what you want. You say, Mr Government, that even painful cuts must be made, but it cannot be understood that efforts are being made to make savings by continuing the cover of fools — cutting pension costs, which increases the people who need income support — and it cannot be understood that when they are cut, they are being cut from the lowest incomes. This debate and the subject matter are emotional, and it has been heard here today. I must say that I appreciate the speeches in which the government representatives have also said that the surgery hurts because the surgery is always an operation and it is not something that can be made beautiful, even though many speeches have been made here about how much the government is now giving all the good things and the end game is not cutting. But at the end of the game it is the individual, the person from whom these cuts are made, who will be able to say in a few years' time whether you cut or gave. And now the opposition has a genuine concern that you will cut more than you will give. The government's explanation for their cuts is that they've been cut in the past. So is that still the reason for the surgery? Can't there be a roof for the surgeries? Is it not justified for the opposition to demand and demand a ceiling for cuts from those on low incomes? Mr President! Cutting from low incomes is always a value choice. There's always a choice. If, as an example to the Finns, the car tax has already gone down or is no longer considered to be of any importance, I would suggest another option, a timely one. Why are you shutting down the black economy unit, which has produced more than EUR 100 million per year in profits? Cancel it. At the same time, you can cancel this housing allowance for small pensioners. People's fear is not to be underestimated. It's to talk about fears. We all received a letter from the Invalid Union in which a 45-year-old person with a physical disability tells us that his pension is less than EUR 750 per month. After the housing allowance, i.e. after the current housing allowance, the rent is still EUR 187 per month. He tells us that he is frightened — he who, for reasons of independence, has lived in the scarcity of his entire adult life. He's had to make some choices between bread and medication. He is afraid of what can only be reduced spending and what to live on in the future. That's sad. Don't you, government, feel bad? What kind of welfare state do we have?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u177	Mr President! As the government is reforming Finland internationally, even in a difficult economic situation, it has been necessary to address the situation of all groups of citizens, unfortunately including pensioners. At the same time, however, when the government is forced to cut low incomes, a number of major reforms affecting our society are under way. This is, for example, a much-needed reform of the social economy. The aim of the Sote reform is to ensure good healthcare for all, using more cost-effective solutions than the current approach. The positive effects of such reforms will be on low-income citizens, improving their position and reducing inequalities among citizens. So it is not just a question of adjusting expenditure, but rather of reviewing and reforming our society's policies on a very broad scale. The purpose of these measures is to build a society capable of acting more effectively and economically and equally for the benefit of its citizens. Mr President! The actions launched by the Government are a whole. The purpose of all government measures is to improve the functioning of our society in a difficult situation where our competitiveness has clearly deteriorated. A good example of this is the reform of essential social services, particularly for older citizens, and their development in a sustainable way, so that more affordable and effective medical care would be available to all citizens on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u178	Madam President! Since the ministers have been here with such merit and I have also spent some of this time with family carers, it will inevitably come to me in some way. The government plans to invest in foster care and family care for family carers. This in itself is good, but it does not remove the fact that family carers are completely outlawed and have no legal protection whatsoever. Municipalities can determine for themselves how much money they spend on informal care. Similarly, each municipality can determine on what basis and criteria they conclude informal care agreements. As a result, the right to informal care varies between municipalities. At present, there are municipalities that no longer conclude new informal care contracts after the summer, even if the criteria laid down by their municipality were thus expressed. The argument is that the budget is running out. We also have municipalities that unilaterally terminate contracts, weaken the situation of families with informal care, and thus seek savings for the municipality. Family carers are easily left alone in these situations, which is not morally right, but it is possible from the point of view of legislation. Similar examples exist throughout Finland. The preparation of a new law on informal care was launched last season. The goal was to get a stronger law to support family carers. The aim was to establish uniform criteria for determining informal care in Finland, which would prevent family carers from jumping and confusing situations in different municipalities. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Rehula when he is well aware of the situation of family carers and is committed to it: will you continue the minister of your predecessor? The preparation of the Family Care Act initiated by Huovinen, and will the government strengthen the legal security of family care families in such a way that municipalities will not be able to unilaterally weaken the situation of family carers in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u179	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Hakkarainen's speech, I would like to say that in Finland, public finances have not grown, as Mr Hakkarainen claimed, but our public finances have remained broadly at the same level, but private finances have decreased, and that is why this difference is now what it is. As far as the German model is concerned, which Mr Hakkarainen here praised: It does have a lot of drawbacks. In other words, it has become such a class of working poor, mini-working, many people working in two jobs, yet still do not get the kind of standard of living that you can manage. I recommend to Mr Hakkarainen that you read that very good report by the Bank of Finland, which reported on this German model. This report explains how the risk of poverty or social exclusion in Germany has increased since 2005 when labour market reforms were completed there. That report well describes the risks and threats associated with the fundamental changes in unemployment security there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u180	Madam President! In Germany, however, the public side accounts for 40% of GDP, and we have 60% of GDP and that goes. I am not exactly applying for the German model, but something must be done to get us out of this double deficit. In the past, among other things, when this public expenditure rose at a higher rate, it was paid out with a surplus in the trade balance. Now it's in deficit, and we need to get this bus fixed. What does it matter if there is money in the sky — I, as a little boy, thought it was coming from that sky, from the treasury of the state, other than to take it, but I have already noticed that there is something to be done about that money coming. In other words, if this is done, let’s just leave the public side high and spending high on pensions, pay security and so on. But we have to do something. And as I said in the first speech, there are very few investors in that socialism now in this global world where money circulates.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u183	Madam President! Mr Kiljunen rightly raised the concerns of family carers here. I agree: the pain spots of informal care are bad. But I'm sure they've been known for several years now. I am glad that this spring in the government negotiations we were able to find this EUR 75 million per year. I'm sure it'll get big steps ahead of us by now. It is true that family carers are, in a way, outlaws in municipalities, and we have to help them. In his speech, Mr Kymäläinen used the expression that these current government savings cannot be justified by past cuts. I fully agree, but I myself am also inclined to think that these cuts will have to be made on this scale because the previous government was unable to take any line of action. With much less, we would certainly have been spared now if something had been achieved. The German model has been discussed here, and it is true that this autumn Parliament has been looking for examples from several committees. There has also been a Committee on Social Affairs and Health, a Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, a Committee on the Environment, the Economic Committee, at least these four committees. It is worth taking lessons from there and picking up things that suit us in a way. But, of course, not everything is worth monkeying, because Germany is also a very different country in many ways. One important point needs to be taken into account: there are no funds for pensions, as is the case in Finland. There is only a one-and-a-half-month buffer, and at least I think that this pattern is much better and more sustainable, because if there is any greater turbulence in the economy, then we would be in the swamp if we did not have pensions funded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u184	Madam President! I have to say to that, Mr Heikkinen, that it is not quite true that during the last term of government, the government has done nothing or done nothing, because poverty and inequality have been reduced for the first time in the last period of government for decades. The difference is whether enough was achieved and whether more should have been done. Yes, it certainly would, but it is quite remarkable and important what happened during the last term of government with regard to this inequality and the development of poverty. And I would add to my own speech: when I was talking about those living below the poverty line, I meant pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u185	Next, we have ministers who have promised to answer the questions that have been asked, and Minister Rehula will begin, for a maximum of three minutes. After that, Minister Mäntylä, no more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u186	Madam President! For investing in informal care, EUR 75 million per year: Representative Kiljunen, the development programme for informal care developed during the last parliamentary term is on the shelf, but not dusted but dug up and taken out of the shelf. What is the way forward, what are the priorities? It has to do with the better performance of family carers, and the other thing is to improve the attractiveness of self-help. Increasing the days off and then replacing informal care during their time, the foster care, would have been arranged — these are the pain points as to whether the family carer can actually take his day off. How can we increase equality compared to the current situation? This is one question mark that needs to be answered, and the plan and target schedule is that in spring 16, the law will be brought to Parliament and at the beginning of August at the latest, but, in principle, from the beginning of July the law will come into force so that we will have 50 million available next year. And when you held the umbrella of the organization you represent here in your hand, I think it is really important that the organization is involved, because then that practical experience will be gained. And this is a promise, not the first and not the last time I have promised this. That's one of the key things to make progress. Representative Louhelainen asked about the support for informal care and how it could be properly targeted. We have a state-owned system of social welfare, social services, health care, which is a lump sum, but one part of this preparation is that the 75 million that really adults should actually get to improve the situation of family carers. It is now the work that is being prepared and carried out in the Ministry. And then the third thing: "Hospitalization." What are the cover words of this nurseship? Now we are in a situation where the government programme includes this drop of 0.5 in long-term institutional care. Well, it has become a lot of criticism, but I have received some commendable feedback from, for example, those in charge of social welfare in cities, municipalities and the elderly, that this will enable us to do new things and find alternatives. What passwords do municipalities receive when the regulation is amended, then it will show time, but the point of memory is that there is more to it than just 0.5 turning to 0.4. Mr President! At the end of the day: no savings, no minus marks will be added, but yes I know that Minister Mäntylä and myself, ourselves, have one key objective, and that is that, in the midst of everything, the basic pillars of this welfare society will be kept firm and firm.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u187	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say, and in fact I would like to say that I would like to begin by thanking everyone who is now here in this Chamber for this excellent debate, but unfortunately there is a little here, but I am glad that there is still some left. Today's debate was very valuable. It was valuable in many ways, and the message that the opposition was sending was certainly heard, and it was also heard in such a way that it also has a meaning in the heart there. In fact, when a representative I think the Kymäläinen asked me if I felt bad, so yes, I'll tell you straight up that I do. I don't feel bad being here, but the decisions we have to make do. They feel deep inside, in the heart, and they come to sleep at night, and that's what you think. With the comprehensive effects that have been put forward and sought today, the impact assessments that we have carried out and applied for, for example, this forwarding of housing support have certainly taken a great deal of time to find a solution that would be as human as possible. This is no excuse, but I will tell you just a little about the background that, if it seems to me that we are heartlessly considering this issue with Mr Rehula, then this is not the case. In fact, in my own speech at the beginning of the day, I said that it would be terribly easy to go down that path of accusation and to think about what that previous government has done or has not done and if it had been, if it had been, if it had been, but when it is not going anywhere. That is what I said to Mr Gustafsson about this billion-dollar debt, but I really appreciate more that we are trying to look ahead. That is why this feedback from you today has been very valuable and I am really glad that I have received it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u188	The fourth item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u189	For table setting, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-21-ps-54.u190	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 October 2015.
