ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Antti Kurvinen requests an exemption from the membership of the National Pensions Institution. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u3	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u4	Madam President! Finland’s strength has always been its ability to cooperate, its ability to agree together and its hard expertise. With this recipe, Finland has always managed in difficult situations. The culture of reconciliation is now threatened by the fact that the Confederation of Finnish Industries has decided that it is no longer a contracting organisation. This means a significant change in the labour market in the way in which Finland has been working successfully for 50 years, especially in difficult situations. In the opinion of the EK, centralised agreements should not really be concluded at all, but solutions should be transferred to workplaces. This means that the strongest will survive, the weakest will suffer. Especially for women-dominated services, this would be poison. Mr President! Do you, Prime Minister, accept this decision by the EK, which will no longer be able to make any solutions in the future in support of employment and competitiveness in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u5	Mr President! This decision does not fall within my competence, it is a matter for the social partners to agree on. Whether we agree on a union or a centralised basis — both have our own pros and cons. For example, many small entrepreneurs have also sent me the message that it makes more sense for them to agree centrally, allowing them to focus on issues other than these labour market issues. This is, for example, in favour of agreeing on centralised solutions. I have no personal opinion on this matter. It is a matter for the social partners as to how agreements will be concluded in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u6	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u7	Mr President! In very difficult times, particularly in difficult economic times, it has been of great value that the policy that is being pursued in the government has been implemented in good cooperation and, as it were, it is being jettisoned with the labour market. And now this is the first time in 50 years that one of the contracting parties has announced that they will no longer fit. Are you the Prime Minister who has no position on this? You have said that a labour market solution should be reached, and if it does not, you are prepared to take these forced laws forward, which means cuts in holiday money, unpaid sick days. For example, a nurse is deprived of a month’s salary. You said nothing about this before the election. The last thing that has been said about employee organisations this morning is that employees will be prepared to negotiate an agreement if the government withdraws its proposal for mandatory laws. Prime Minister Sipilä, you now have the keys to the solution in your hands. Are you prepared to give up these mandatory laws, as you have done in the last instance with regard to the management register? If you now announce this, then there will be a whole new possibility of a centralised labour market solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u8	Mr President! Yes, I spoke forcefully about the social pact before the elections too, and the first attempt in the government process was the social pact. Since then we have tried it during the summer and in the autumn, and now between the social partners alone, in two, a fourth attempt, that this is not the case to blame for the lack of effort. Perhaps the fact that no agreement has been reached is due to the fact that this is also the first time since accession to the euro that we are discussing the situation that, in some respects, working conditions should be made worse, because the economic situation is what it is. At the time of the introduction of the euro, it was also assured, on behalf of the social partners, that there would be adaptability to a situation where the means of devaluation might normally be used. Now we do not have the means, so we need to find new medicines to improve the competitiveness of Finnish companies, Finnish work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u9	Mr President! I interpreted this as an end to the fact that you are going to bring these coercive laws to Parliament anyway. As chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality and Labour, I require that they be subject to gender impact assessments with the utmost care. And I would like to ask here — when Mr Stubb told us earlier that the international treaties behind these laws, the constitutional issues and EU affairs, the Council of Europe and the ILO issues have been revised, but those reports were not found in public when the journalists asked about them — is it certain that all the information that the government has on these international treaties and their critical points will be written in those legislative proposals when they are desperately coming to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u10	Mr President! This package of legislation on competitiveness, a seven-point programme, is now under consultation. And for this very purpose it is in the consultation that we will also have external views on these very issues. It comes from statements in a week’s time, and then, of course, we will assess whether or not these statements need to be changed in any way. It is a normal preparatory work for legislation, as the representative well knows.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u11	Mr President! Widely in society, citizens have also hoped that a labour market solution of this kind could emerge in this situation, and the government has also said that it is in favour of this option. Now it is a little confusing to say, on the one hand, that there has been a considerable degree of rapprochement in the negotiations and, on the other hand, that they will no longer be continued after the Confederation of Finnish Industries required that, before the content of the agreements is known, everyone should declare that they accept this. Of course, it is quite rare to say that you accept it in advance. In general, we have first looked at what is the content, and then we have taken a position. Now the position of the government in this situation has, at least, been completely unclear to me. If you want this agreement, wouldn't you, Prime Minister, now make a strong appeal to the parties to continue the discussions and see this result of the negotiations that is to be reached, and then the various parties will take a position on whether it is acceptable to the unions? Are you prepared to make this appeal today, for example, in this Parliamentary Question Time?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u12	Mr President! I have made many of these petitions. I do not know how, even in recent days, I could have spent more time with the social partners' leaders in the debate than I have spent. My phone battery has to be charged twice a day, that much of these conversations I have. So let's try and find a way to get to the negotiating table all the time. Nothing else is more important to me at the moment than finding a way to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u13	Madam President! It is comforting to hear that there is still a company and a will. The triad has been the central building block in this country that has created predictability for the labour market and has been able to build tomorrow for both employees and entrepreneurs. The triad has been practiced since January's engagement. In a way, I ask the Prime Minister: is it the case that the EK, which cut these negotiations off, announced, at the same time, how a tripartite agreement will be reached from now on, then the membership organisations of the Confederation of Finnish Industries will come to these negotiations to agree on possible pension solutions that have been made on a tripartite basis and, in general, on matters of working life, where social interest is always involved? Is this the case, Mr Sipilä, that your time is no longer sufficient for you to have to negotiate with so many people, or do you wish the EK could turn its decision around?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u14	Mr President! We are talking about this social agreement and the package that replaces this government's competitiveness package. I have also received a positive response from the EK. They want to be involved and have been involved in this. And what they have decided at their spring meeting and at their autumn meeting does not concern this process. So I've got everyone involved in this process. We've tried this many times. And I really hope that, in this situation, where we are today — the government's objective is to create 110,000 new jobs during this parliamentary term, and this is one piece in it as a whole — there is now a desire for agreement to be found on the basis of what we need, that the development of unemployment can finally be reversed. Unemployment in Finland is developing most poorly throughout the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u15	Madam President! I appeal to you, Prime Minister Sipilä: you withdraw these mandatory laws and collect social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u16	President! Behind this competitiveness package by the government there is nothing but concern that we will get jobs for the unemployed. And we have to act, the government can't stand up straight, hands in the pocket with this thing, but we have to get ahead and make decisions. I have appealed many times to the social partners, tried many times to do this process together. And I still hope that it will succeed, that it will be done together. This whole package has already been dealt with here in Parliament as a government communication, it has been voted on here, this debate on this package has actually already taken place here. The two sides of industry were now given the opportunity to bring their own replacement package. It hasn't arrived on my desk so far. If it is up to me and to my appeal, I have done so many times, both in public, bilaterally and for all five at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u17	Mr President! It is very unfortunate that this government's top project or flagship project has run aground, but of course we must now find a solution, and unemployment is indeed a major problem. Looking at other Nordic countries, Sweden, for example, has a strong tradition of local reconciliation. There's trust, too. Amongst other things, trade union representatives are involved in company boards and are working together to find solutions that consider unemployment to be low and the situation of companies to be good. Prime Minister, how do you see this Swedish model and operating model also in the light of what the EK has now decided? Are we going in the direction of Sweden, and would this be a good solution for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u18	Mr President! This promotion of local reconciliation is also in the Government Programme, and we are taking it forward. It is clear that, in our competitor countries, this local agreement is much longer than Finland, and perhaps this is our largest handicap compared to our competitor countries when it comes to the flexibility of the labour market. In fact, there is an agreement in principle with both the employee and the employer that we need to take a giant step forward in this matter. And this will also happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u19	Mr President! I understand that the prime minister's and the government's top priority is the creation of a social pact and that forced laws are the last option — that is, forced when nothing else works. After more than six months of negotiations and despite many attempts and despite the good efforts of the government, the social partners seem to be on very different lines. Finland's competitiveness weakens for a month and, in fact, day after day, and Finland is in deep crisis. I believe that, in this situation too, the citizens are hoping for a social pact. I ask the Prime Minister: have you in the government thought about setting up a conciliation group when it seems that these parties are not getting along?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u20	Mr President! Indeed, Finland is in crisis when it comes to competitiveness and employment and economic development, and we need to find medicines and a way out. The government is not going to stand by for four years when development is what it is at present. We have already set up such a working group, i.e. we have ministers Rehn, Lindström and Orpo, who have been in regular contact with the social partners, and they are constantly looking for a solution together with the organisations and also in this situation the way out, the way to get back to the negotiating table. Trio has also been regularly involved in these discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u21	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä did not answer Mr Filatov's question. After all, in general, no legislative proposals are sent even to the opinion until it is established that they comply with the Constitution and international agreements and commitments. It has already appeared in the past that, contrary to Mr Stubb's announcement, the coercive package has not been prepared carefully and in consultation with constitutional experts. Thus, Mr Ojanen, Professor of Constitutional Law, sees it clear that problems with international agreements and EU law will lead to actions. The Government has prepared laws for this opinion that are likely to be contrary to EU agreements. No other EU country has attempted to violate the freedom of contract and association, these fundamental and human rights, solely on economic grounds. In view of the lack of clarity in the preparation of the Administrative Register Act, I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä again: is it certain that this time the draft law on forced labour has certainly taken into account all the aspects necessary for drafting the law, such as international agreements and obligations?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u22	Madam President! Both representatives of Lindtman and Harakka may have argued several times that there is nothing in black and white about these assessments. This argument is not correct. The constitutionality and the order of our competitiveness laws have been evaluated in consultation with the constitutional experts and in the preparation of the TEM officials. The preparation was accompanied by an expert discussion with two constitutional experts and one expert primarily on ILO and other international obligations. In addition to this debate, the responsible draftsman has also held discussions on other constitutional issues. These memos have been available to all on the VM website since the end of September.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u23	Mr President! The Finnish arrangement has so far been a success story. Yesterday showed that all the parties to the agreement stated that it was not a good solution. Everyone is losing if we keep doing this. That is why it was encouraging to hear from Prime Minister Sipilä that there is still a small opportunity to get rid of the situation that not everyone loses. The Finnish economy has also been the one that has benefited, and now that there is nothing more to share, I understand that these laws that increase or improve competitiveness are a so-called rescue ring if this culture of agreement sinks. That is why I ask, Prime Minister, whether there are any backward lines now for this small possibility that everyone will find each other and that the situation will be brought about that not everyone will lose, as it seems now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u24	Mr President! The next step in this process is that competitiveness legislation, or this package, will come from the consultation next week. The law will then continue to be drawn up so that these laws will be brought to Parliament in February. We still have a window of time for compensatory proposals to be brought to the table, and I have agreed with the social partners to do so. I hope to see them as soon as possible, because those proposals will probably also require legislation, the drafting of legislation, and the aim is that everyone will be adopted from this Parliament by next summer, so the window of time will still be a few days, a few weeks open depending on what this whole and this content will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u25	Mr President! First of all, from these expert opinions: "These discussions have not, according to the information of the Ministry of Finance, received any expert opinions or other written statements. There are no documents prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the above-mentioned debate", says Paula Penttilä, Secretary of the Budget Department, on this constitutionality of compulsory laws. But, Mr President, on this matter: You have tried many times now with this threat of coercion to reach an agreement, and that has not been successful. Now would you like to try a new way? And now that the EK has made this announcement that it is no longer a contracting organisation, and it has now caused this fuss on the labour market, this morning you have been offered and told on the gold platter on behalf of employees' organisations that if you withdraw these mandatory laws, they will be ready to come to the table and settle. You now have the opportunity, on the gold tray, to come up with an income solution that supports competitiveness. Are you taking this, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u26	Madam President! Now Mr Lindtman has the wrong information. Throughout this process — that is, three companies — have not been talking about any of the government's own competitiveness packages, but, together with the social partners, three have tried to find a common target for seeking cost-competitiveness measures worth 5%. We did not achieve this goal by the end of August, which is what we did. This is completely incorrect information. This part of the process and the company have already been completed and ended without results at the end of August. Since then, the government started preparing its own package and the government has offered labour market organisations the opportunity to bring compensatory measures alongside them, and that offer remains valid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u27	Madam President! Once again, these memos to which Mr Lindtman referred are available on the website of the Ministry of Finance, and I believe that the quote to which you have just referred comes from the press and the question from the journalist has come to the secretary of the budget department of the VM. This package has been in the preparation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but we have put these documents on the Internet earlier on the VM's side. And if we look at this whole, then the actual written statements on constitutional issues will only be made on concrete, written government proposals and the whole of them at the time of the deliberations of the Constitutional Committee. In other words, the final constitutionality can ultimately only be resolved by the Constitutional Committee, which is where we were, Mr Lindtman, in the event that we prepared our proposal on this whole, and those documents are indeed on the VM website.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u28	Madam President! The government offered the EK a silver platter of weakening, unpaid day of sickness, holiday allowance surgery, vacation surgery, about minus 5% wage cuts. What is the EK’s interest in concluding an agreement after this? The EK was just looking for a way for them to sort of peel cream off the top and bring down the negotiations. Madam President! Prime Minister, you said that the purpose of this package is to create 110,000 new jobs in Finland. If you look at the effects of these cuts, the Deputy Budget Manager of the Ministry of Finance, Juha Majanen, has said that in the short term, this coercive package will reduce employment and congest growth. Should we not now take a spoon in a beautiful hand, pull out these coercive laws that undermine the economy and employment, and this will enable us to achieve a good solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u29	Mr President! I don't know him. The beaver's statement or exactly what he's made that statement about. But this is part of a package that aims to create 110,000 new jobs in Finland by 2019. This is one part of the whole. And when this package is presented and criticised, it always forgets that there is also an increase in the month's security, which is an additional cost to the employer, and this is aimed at re-training and getting a new job, and that is about a month's salary. In this connection, we are also bringing the dismissed employee the continuation of occupational health care for a period of 6 months, which is very important in such a situation. The situation of women in the labour market will also be improved by this one-off payment of EUR 2500 for the cost of family leave in women-dominated workplaces. From an employee's point of view, these three constitute this plus factor in this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u30	Mr President! Now the situation is that the social pact did indeed fall because the EK announced that it would no longer participate in the trialogue, and the ACP, traditionally as a hard alliance, became nervous and said that if no agreement was made, then no agreement would be made. Well, this, of course, fits the purpose of the EK very well. Now that we are moving forward, Mr Sipilä, will you now be able to hold the sides of those low-paid women in those negotiations and will you also be able to hold the sides of the unemployed in those negotiations when it seems that we are now going to have a good relationship with the EK and the EK, if any, with the government? How, then, do we guarantee that the livelihoods of low-paid people will also be taken into account and that wage developments will, however, follow the course of rent development — that is the most important thing, the person must have a home — and the course of food price development?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u31	Madam President! It is in the interests of all Finns, every employee, every unemployed person, that we get this package together, that we can bring about this change in such a way that the competitiveness of Finnish work will improve, that employment will improve, that the state finances will improve, and that means that we will be able to avoid major cuts, which we will inevitably have to face if we do not quickly stop this development. That is why this whole thing is also in a hurry. The fact that the government is in some particular connection with the Confederation of Finnish Industries is not true. Just the same constant contacts with employees' organisations, and all the time we are working with all the parties involved to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u32	Mr President! It has at least become clear that in all the speeches in this Chamber it has been hoped that a negotiated solution would have been reached. And, of course, if this solution, the social pact, had been achieved, it would have been the best solution for the competitiveness of Finnish work by guaranteeing not only a moderate wage solution but also these measures to strengthen competitiveness. And I hope that every effort will continue to be made to do so, and here the Prime Minister has already called for this. Since the ACP was the one who ultimately brought down this round, I hope that those who can influence it will also contribute to the message. And I'm sure they'll take the message to the EK as well. We must now appeal in every direction. But the analysis that the government would do nothing now that they have fallen — it cannot do that. Every day someone loses his job in Finland, every day someone graduates and does not get a new job. Yes, these proposals must be taken forward in a consistent way by Finnish work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u33	I don't think there's any question about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u34	President! I would like to say that it is wonderful that the Prime Minister has decided to continue this process in such a way as to look for a model that could go forward in the round of negotiations, however, or to seek the labour market solution that is at stake here. I think it is important to have such a long-term wage settlement that can maintain and improve the competitiveness of Finnish exports and make it predictable for companies to see the future and also for citizens' prospects. I cannot judge how cutting sick pay or cutting annual leave from women-dominated sectors in particular or cutting holiday money are the factors that create new jobs here and now. On the contrary, several evaluators believe that only this long-term wage settlement would be the best way forward. So I ask you now, Prime Minister: could you not withdraw these mandatory laws from the proceedings?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u35	Mr President! As I have said many times here: I can pull if I get a replacement from the social partners. That's what I'm waiting for. So we can pull if there's a replacement. But we cannot stand by and wait for that proposal not to come and see that we are in 2019 and we have not managed to reverse this trend in employment and unemployment. We must bring about that change — even if government action is taken if, in this situation, the social partners are not in a position to agree on it. We've tried this many times in a row. And this is made up of a lot of things: Structural measures aimed at even a small increase in working time. Let's get paid. And then, above all, the measures to improve productivity in companies and communities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u36	One last question on this subject, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u37	Mr President! When you talk about these pay cuts and holiday payments, annual holiday cuts, you also mean that the home market is losing its purchasing power really hard. Since 2009, we have kept this economy broadly up by the fact that domestic demand has been strong. Now I ask: how do you intend to ensure that the Finnish consumer demand is strengthened despite these forced law cuts? These performances of yours are almost over 3% cuts in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u38	Mr President! With this package, if we get it together, we will avoid having to make savings of 1.5 billion from those who are even worse off, those who have no work. It will ensure that we are able to achieve a reduction in taxes, a reduction in taxation, an increase in purchasing power and thus a new dynamic for the economy. This is the aim of this package: that in 2017 we come to the conclusion that we no longer need more savings in addition to these savings decisions and, on the other hand, we will be able to reduce the tax burden on Finnish labour in such a way as to restore purchasing power and, above all, influence domestic demand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u39	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u40	Madam President! The Government has decided that all customer charges for social welfare and health services will increase by approximately 30 per cent. 1) I ask: why did the Ministry not use the reform through the expert consultation or parliamentary deliberations? 2) And I ask: is it possible to set a ceiling so that decisions do not (a) deepen the gap between those in occupational health care and those in municipal health care, and (b) increase the plight of the elderly, the unemployed and the low-income?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u41	Madam President! The increase in health care customer fees has been known in terms of the total amount since the Government Programme of Sipilä was written and published. The preparation has taken place within the timetable of the Budget Act, so that the municipalities can, as far as they can, make those increased payments available. It is up to the municipalities to decide whether and to what extent payments are to be made and from whom. We have an increase in customer fees of EUR 40 million in total during the last parliamentary term. This process has progressed in exactly the same way. Representative Aalto asks about the payment ceilings. In social and health care, we also have a ceiling on customer fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u42	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u43	Mr President! There's been a lot of stuff going on right now. Indeed, in the midst of all this haste, in the midst of all the unclear proposals, the government will introduce a regulation which will actually increase these social and health care services, such as health centre fees, clinic fees, home services and short-term institutional care by almost 30%. This is where Minister Ruhula said that the municipalities can decide for themselves. But we all know, as decision-makers in municipalities, what kind of situation the municipalities have been driven into and what the financial situation of the municipalities is, and certainly in many municipalities this is accepted as a means of welcoming them with warmth. These savings will once again be collected from the most vulnerable low-income and sick people, and this proposal does not include a proper impact assessment either. So, Minister, I ask you: how do you ensure that, after the increase in these charges, people on low income do not leave these health services entirely unused because of their price?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u44	Madam President! There have been a lot of things going on here too. This has been public since 19 November and I personally looked forward to the next Question Time, when the vigilant opposition always tends to tackle topical issues that are of great interest to the public. Now we have to thank the Finnish Broadcasting Company for the fact that the editor of the old school has looked into things. Secondly, how is it ensured that no one is prevented from attending a medical clinic because of payment? It is the decision-making process at municipal level. I have received feedback from those responsible in the municipalities themselves that we already have people to whom, in addition to imposing or allowing for free payment, the municipal income support or the co-operation of social services with health care means that no charges are levied at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u45	Mr President! Indeed, if you talk about these expenses, the fees that many people on low incomes spend on different health care charges, you talk about customer fees, medical fees, travel expenses and travel expenses, you can have very high annual costs for the same person. Today, these spending ceilings are separate in these different systems. What the Greens have proposed in their alternative budget is what many representatives of the bourgeois parties have also pointed out: would it be fairer, now that these payments are rising, that the government should consider having a common ceiling, so that a person with long distances, pharmaceutical costs and customer fees, all in parallel, would have a common ceiling, which would not generate excessive costs for certain poor and sick people? I hope that the Minister will look into this and wonder whether it will be possible to do so. It would help those with the weakest situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u46	We have several ceilings, Madam President. We have a certain ceiling when these different systems are combined. But then the other way around: the long history is that the work of clearing up a single ceiling has been carried out in different government terms. So far, it has been decided that this model of our social and health funding system is such that there are risks of going from ditch to allikko. In the case of a single person who is financially strict in his day, this is all talk about what I am saying here, but, Mr Niinistö, this is an agenda in a situation where we have to consider that people also have the prerequisites for living in a situation where there is a disease and there is a need for medicines.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u47	Mr President! Before making this proposal, there has been no consultation and no proper assessment of the impact on the use of services, income differences and health inequalities. However, it is not necessary to be an expert to see that the government's planned increases in service charges are hitting the poor and painful people of all the hard people, especially the elderly. At worst, these increases reduce the use of low thresholds and preventative services and increase the use of heavy and corrective services. I would therefore like to ask the minister concerned: has it been assessed whether these increases in payments will reduce the use of preventive and low-threshold services and will they increase the use of special medical care, corrective and emergency services, and will it actually result in any savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u48	Madam President! The time available and the best possible evaluations have been used to prepare. Of course, it is important that the price at which it is paid has a controlling effect on the demand for services. This is real. But when it comes to public information, for example — and when you too asked specifically about the ageing population — the home services of the ageing population, for example, the services to be taken home, will not be interfered with. There will be no increase in those payments. At this point, it is necessary to trust municipal decision-makers, the decision-makers of joint municipal boards, in that they are able to take decisions such as those that would not put pressure on special medical care by this increase in basic outpatient fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u49	Mr President! I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and we have dealt with these various government austerity laws throughout the autumn. In fact, it has become apparent in many, almost all, laws that experts believe that government proposals increase the need for income support and the number of people dependent on income support. This means that the government's savings will ultimately be borne by the municipalities, but, worst of all, the poverty researchers see it as the worst option to save - from basic security, reimbursement of medicines and so on and then force the poor people into income support, because it is very difficult to find employment there. Income support is like a shake from which a person cannot get out on his own. Has the government assessed at all how you push poor people into this kind of distress, from which they really don't get up so easily anymore?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u50	Madam President! This has also been assessed in relation to changes in these customer charges, and it has been stated there in the explanatory statement of the Government's decision that the need for income support will increase. It's true. It is a last resort form of livelihood for people whose other assets do not allow, for example, the use of health care services. But what is the water divider or what is the corner point, what are the expert assessments to be leaned on? Sickness is something that makes you poorer. However, in all of this, we are now trying to make decisions such as those on health, for example, that would not depend on the use of services in a situation where there is a need to get to a doctor or other social and health care services. These are painful solutions. But secondly, from the municipal point of view too: the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut for next year, which makes it possible to evaluate the payment policy of municipalities in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u51	Värderade fru talman! Det är faktiskt bekymmersamt att kostnaderna för vården stiger för den enskilda medborgaren. Vårdavgifterna kommer nu att kunna stiga med upp till 30 percent, självriskerna för mediciner blir större och den enskilda individen kan hamna i en mycket besvärlig situation. Därför har svenska riksdagsgruppen i sin alternativa budget fört fram det ox alternative med att regeringen brode ta fram en modell för ett gemensamt kostnadstak för mediciner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u52	Madam President! Mr Henriksson, with his question, answered at least part of the answer. This financing model of our social welfare and health care system is difficult because there are many avenues through which money comes to the services used in social welfare and health services. And I hope, at least, that a spark in the direction of making progress on the question of the capping of payments will result in us having a model of social and health care funding with that overall responsibility and that overall management. One bag of money, one decision-maker also makes it easier to harmonise this ceiling.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u53	One last question on this subject, Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u54	Madam President! The government works well with a cold hand. If a person falls ill, it is true that not all people can afford all the social and health services they need. At the same time, the government has raised the social and health service charges most historically, more than any government in Finland so far. For example, if a person needs help in moving and has to go to a hospital, this hospital visit costs him more than EUR 90, and in addition he has to pay the cost of the medicine, and when the cost of the medicine rises, these visits are completely impossible for many people. Prime Minister, under the Socialist option, we have not allocated savings to the least-incomed and ill, even though our budget proposal and our alternative are balanced. Do you really think that these options would not exist if the government did not have to save?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u55	Mr President! In the Social Democrats' alternative budget, these savings are financed by evacuating Sitra and the Bank of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u56	Now I give the floor to Mr Stubb, the Minister for Finance, and then we will continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u57	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Last week in Question Time, in this forum, I made a mistake when I spoke about the statements in the management register. In front of you, I want to humbly apologize for this mistake. I have been a minister for eight years and I am well aware that the minister must be very precise with all his figures. At the same time, I would like to assure you that my mistake was by no means premeditated but rather imprudent. I'm sorry about that. Sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to continue this recent debate on these customer charges, we can do so now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u59	Mr President! I attach great importance to this statement by Mr Stubb and I appreciate that he is prepared in this forum to say that the information provided a week ago was incorrect. It is important that all of us, in our own actions, assume that we are telling things as best we know they are, and in particular that we can count on the Minister to say something about the matters of his own administration to correspond to the best information that exists in Finland. Then we come to another issue, which is the announcement by Prime Minister Sipilä of the SDP's alternative budget. This can't be the way it's going to be, you know, week after week, telling people what it's not. The SDP uses the same idea that you, Prime Minister, had: balance sheets to work. When we are ready to look at Sitra and take its balance sheet for employment purposes, it is one-off expenditure for employment. By no means do we fund the fact that these unfair savings are not made here for the increase in customer fees. That is what we are financing with permanent income, as we have suggested for example in the financial sector. I therefore hope that this will be discussed properly and not the last time that the Minister has spoken with false knowledge of the opposition's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u60	Mr President! Yes, the aim of all of us is that we do not have to make savings, but that we should get into a situation where the Finnish state and public finances are on a sustainable basis. It will only come on a sustainable basis by restoring the competitiveness of Finnish work, achieving economic growth, thereby reducing employment, and this is the right, healthy path. How to put the balance sheet to work: 350 million, if I remember correctly, was in the SDP's alternative budget to restore Sitra's capital. At Sitra, these capitals are used, for example, to capitalise small, growing companies. I wouldn't take the capital from there to work here. The second place was the Bank of Finland, and it would be a one-off measure if you took 60 million from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u61	Mr President! This is where the Prime Minister's answers get things mixed up. As has now been strongly stated here and also stated in the presentation of the alternative budget, we have one-off revenue and one-off expenditure and they are used in the balance sheet for work, in such a way that new jobs can be created. You have just made a claim that our one-off revenue is available for the reimbursement of permanent expenditure. That is not true, Prime Minister, it is simply not true. I hope that we will be able to discuss these alternative budgets for a longer period of time in a way that opens up what... That was the right comment, as you said just now, that you do not think it makes sense to spend Sitra's money on such one-off expenses. It is quite the right comment, but the fact that you claim that you are not what we ourselves have done in both options is not a good option.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u62	I don't think there's a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u63	Mr President! Politics is a sport where things sometimes come in front of you and sometimes the minister gets caught in the heat. But I think it is very good to see that we have a finance minister who, in a very difficult overall situation, has enough battery. I would just like to say that the Central Parliamentary Group fully unanimously supports the Minister in his responsible work. In fact, I did not have a question about this service fee, but when the Social Democrats cut half of Sitra's capital in their shadow budget and claim that it can be cut because it is too big, you forget that Sitra has no other income. It finances its entire operations with income from capital, and when you cut half of its capital, you cut half of Sitra’s income, this R & D-supporting community. — There was no question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u64	There has been no more talk of the original question in several previous speeches, but there have been terrible hopes here to deal with this issue, which has been so distressed by many people, and now it has been dealt with, hopefully once and for all. Any questions about the customer fees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u65	Madam President! I would like to continue to say that what we are using Sitra's revenue for, is, for example, that we fix mold schools for children, we fix those libraries, President! To go to this client-paying theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u68	Did Minister Rehula find a customer fee question?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u69	Mr President! You can always think about it. But here we are, Madam President, where, on 19 November, the government has taken a decision on a regulation in which — and a representative — With regard to the issue of screams, I would now like to say this — we have set the maximum amount which may be charged. Maximum amount to be charged. I know that decisions at the municipal level, the final decisions, are in line with this maximum. But I also know that we have a number of cities and municipalities that use discretion as to whether or not to charge or to what extent and to whom to charge. This has been the intention and will continue to be the case. It is this Health Care Customer Fees Act, on the basis of which this regulation has been drawn up, both letter and spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u70	And the last question on the subject, I hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u71	Thank you, Mr President. The Christian Democratic Group has a strong culture of forgiveness, and we wish Mr Stubb every success. Now to the question. This increase in the customer fee is exceptionally high and is carried out as if along the bypass without consultation or evaluation. My question is: is this becoming a new practice for this government, carrying out cuts without proper treatment? I would like to ask the Minister: do you not worry that the visit to the doctor will be postponed until the end and that more demanding and costly treatment will be needed than if the problem had been taken care of immediately? Prior to this, the government has already decided on significant increases in sickness contributions. It seems that the weak and the sick bear a disproportionate burden in these pursuits. My question is: why do we act in such a hurry and on such a timetable when the reform of social security is being carried out? Does the government not believe that the social welfare reform will make enough savings when such drastic increases are made in service charges?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u72	Madam President! For the second time, this change has been prepared as one of the processes of the change made during the last parliamentary term. Has it been right or wrong? It can be estimated by everyone with it. Could you have done better now? I think it would be. But history is that there is a similar model in this situation. Second of all, do you have time to wait? The Government Programme has committed itself to a certain balancing of the economy so that, in this case, from the point of view of local government finances, municipal income is to be increased by EUR 150 million. During the preparatory work, it was concluded that there would be a change to the flat-rate payments so that the ceiling would not be affected. The ceiling will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u73	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 9/2015 vp. The committee proposes that the bill contained in the citizens' initiative be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u74	Mr President! In the citizens' initiative before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it is proposed that health care staff should have the right to an ethical or... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : I ask that the debates be held, with respect to mutual representatives, on the external And now Mr Hatainen has the floor. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u77	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Minna Canth 150 years ago promoted the rights of Finnish women. He promoted the right of Finnish girls and women to study and work. Next year it will be 110 years since women received the right to vote in Finland, i.e. they were able to decide on matters, including matters concerning women themselves, and they obtained the right to vote at that time. Since then, a lot has happened in Finland, things have improved in many ways. In the 1970s, abortion was legalized, and it was then that unpleasant illegal abortions were removed from Finland. At that time, doctors were given freedom of conscience to refuse a certain life - ending measure, as Heikki Pälve, Executive Director of the Association of Doctors, said in his article. So doctors were given freedom of conscience at that time. But where has it gone over these decades? It's good to think about it and ask. At that time it was thought to be collegial, and it was not transposed in Finland, as in other European countries. Unfortunately, collegiality has only worked in part of Finnish hospitals. Some of them have not at all, and, for example, nurses, or rather think of midwives in the hospital, have been cut off from their work, there has been no extension of working relationships. And which is the worst, Finnish young doctors who want to specialise in the field of gynaecological diseases and childbirth will not be able to study at all in Finland. In other words, Finland is Western, so to speak Western, a democracy in which a young doctor must go to Europe, Denmark, Norway, Germany, England, in order to have a specificity. Women are entitled to abortion in Finland, and this initiative does not affect this. However, in many places a good treatment chain is not being implemented today, but all too often women in a difficult situation find themselves in the middle of a busy reception. In many places it has been suggested that if there is only one doctor and he refused, then what will happen. Let me tell you that even today, in most cases, a single doctor cannot decide on abortions; two doctors are needed. If, for example, this individual doctor is in a private clinic and has not specifically requested permission to be a doctor, he is not entitled to write a statement today. Similarly, if there is one doctor at the health centre or if there are 10 of them, but if the pregnancy has been going on for more than 12 weeks, the doctor is not entitled to write a statement, but the woman must contact Valvira, get a permit from Valvira, and then call the maternity clinic and set an appointment. In Finland, interruptions are carried out in hospitals, health centres, and it is possible to take care of the necessary quotas, as appropriate in health care. There must be sufficient qualified physicians, nurses, midwives who carry out the necessary procedures and investigations. The initiative will therefore not weaken or weaken access to statutory investigations or carers. Freedom of conscience does not undermine abortion, but, instead, the closure of small hospitals, for example, does. On the other hand, many today want and can travel farther from their home to have abortions. It has also been said that this is a Pandora's box. This isn't a Pandora's box. There's only one thing about this box. It's about ending life, which means it's about life and death. The box has only the ending of life, and it cannot be compared to any other procedure or study in health care. Mr President! This subject causes pain, and I know that there are many in this house, too, who have a painful thing both in personal life, in the life of a loved one or in the work history. But will our own pain and emotions be allowed to decide what to vote for, or will the decision makers listen to the voice of their own reason? The answer comes from you. If the House wants to defend fundamental human rights — those patients who think, consider and end up in abortion, as do the staff’s basic human rights — then there is only one possibility of voting, and each one of you deep down knows what the right vote is. I wish for my own sensitivity and, despite previous opinions, for the courage to vote correctly to improve the health, well-being and human rights of all. Mr President! I propose that a legislative proposal in accordance with the objection be taken as the basis for this discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u78	Mr President! There is a citizens' initiative in the proceedings that, according to the conviction, it would be possible to refuse part of the job, i.e. in this case the termination of pregnancy. I listened here to the President-in-Office of the Committee's report, and I also read the work done by that committee, and I must thank the committee for the very thorough and good work that has been done on this issue in many different directions. There has been a lot of feedback on this, which is positive, not only in favour of the citizens' initiative, but also very much in opposition to it. I myself have come to the conclusion, after a thorough analysis by this committee, that the citizens' initiative must be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u79	Mr President! This objection, which was presented here by Mr Tanus, is extremely good and comprehensive. It is precisely these arguments and an important line of argument that, in accordance with the protest, no human's so-called abortion rights are being affected, but this is precisely to ensure the freedom of conscience of the medical staff, which is a practice all over Europe, except for these very few countries, where Finland is also included. Unfortunately, for example, this committee's report has not dealt in any way with this situation in Europe and the fact that, during the free movement of labour, we may be seeking in the labour market those people who have been able to work in these professions in their own country under the protection of conscience. In that sense, I think there is a contradiction, At the same time, I would like to support Mr Tanus' protest here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u80	You can't pay for the answer. If you want to do that, you have to do it in the actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u81	Mr President! I know deep down that I support this report by the committee. This is a very well-drafted report, which has given a balanced consideration to the matter on different sides, and it is good to agree with it. The essential question here is whether the legislative amendment under the initiative would weaken access to abortion, and I believe that this would unfortunately happen. In countries where freedom of conscience is in place, it has been found that access to abortion has become more difficult in many places. At its worst, a change in law could mean that abortion would depend on the place of residence and abortions would take place at a later stage. The big question is also how to define this conviction and what would be counted as acceptable convictions. This is a very escalating surface, and we should not go to that surface. The committee's report is a very good one, and we should proceed accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u82	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I am disappointed by this report by the majority of the committee and I am surprised by these arguments when we know that in almost all the other countries of Western Europe, except Sweden and Finland, this legislation works. It simply works. If you are thinking of those countries, such as Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands, how do you know that there would be difficulties in having abortions, despite the fact that health care staff in these countries have been guaranteed freedom of conscience on this issue, which is not just an ethical issue, but is about the right of a doctor and nurse to the most important health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u83	Mr President! I believe that this committee's opinion is very well-founded. On this point, I would like to raise the issue of the protection of the private life guaranteed by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which includes the right of women to decide on abortion. This, and patient rights, seems to me to be the central issue here. It is stated here that, on the one hand, freedom of religion and conscience is not an absolute right and, on the other hand, it is not possible to take action which violates the fundamental rights of others. I believe that this is precisely the fundamental right of a woman to have a legal measure carried out. It is stated here that, for example, a refusal to discontinue a pregnancy as part of a job must not result in a violation of the right of a woman seeking an abortion under the law to a private life. This was taken as an example of what I said in my previous speech on this issue, namely this female priestship case and the offence of discrimination and the ground for dismissal. This is a Pandora's Box. All convictions hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u84	Mr President! It is clear from this debate that people have still not understood what this citizens' initiative is about. I quote here the Finnish Constitution: "Every man has freedom of religion and conscience. Freedom of religion and conscience includes the right to recognise and practice religion, the right to express belief and the right to belong or not to belong to a religious community." Today’s freedom of conscience seems to be the best concept in Finland when it comes to negative religious freedom. For example, it was written in the 19th century that no one should have to take an oath against his conscience. Today, it should be said that a doctor should not be forced to abort contrary to his conscience. And as some Members have pointed out here, Mr Räsänen, among other things, that in Europe this works, I wonder very much why it does not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u85	A few more comments, then we will go to the speeches on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u86	Mr President! The committee's opinion expressly states that, although we have a law on freedom of religion, religion must not, on the basis of belief, prevent us from acting, for example, in violation of equality. I would also like to draw attention to another point on which Mr Tanus spoke on the platform, specifically this right to study. It is now possible to study. The question and, in my opinion, the greatest challenge in this initiative is precisely that, when and if we were to increase this right or the possibility of refusing abortion, it would also apply to this period of study, even in situations where the life of a woman is at risk, there would not necessarily be the condition and the knowledge to deal with that situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u89	Mr President! I understand that this is a rather sensitive matter of value and ethics, and when we have talked about, among other things, a specific statement by the Council of Europe, I would like to say that the Council of Europe's parliamentary
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u92	I would like to give the floor to Mr Salonen, Mr Niikko and Mr Tanus, on the basis of which this debate has now begun.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u93	Mr President! I find it quite incomprehensible to say here that the initiative has not been understood. Neither do we, who do not support that initiative, say that you have not understood the current legislation on health care. It's about values, and now we value things differently. That's what this is about, Mr. Östman. Others, such as myself, consider it important that we have unvalued, independent treatment. This is a difficult matter for women, and the medical staff must not in any way influence the decision of the woman. Imagine a situation in which a woman has come to the reception and then says that she has ended up with an abortion, but the caring person says that clear, I have to leave the room, I have to ask someone else to come here because I can't do this and do it. Let's just stamp it out, all right? Where else do we want to extend freedom of conscience after this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u94	Mr President! I have to say that the representatives here are going to mess with the oatmeal and the lard. It is certainly not understood what is at stake here. This is not a denial of abortion, nor is it a denial of the right to apply for that abortion from anywhere, but it is intended to give those persons freedom of conscience who do not accept such an act within themselves and, in the sense that it can be arranged, it should be granted. I wonder very much how in 21 countries in which 25 EU countries have legalised abortions, freedom of conscience is a legal right. How is it possible to do that there if it is not possible to do it here? It must also be pointed out that in 1970, when the abortion law was enacted in Finland, doctors were given freedom of conscience to refrain from taking the measure, but, unlike other EU countries, this has not been taken up to the law in Finland, and this is the problem. Now we just want to fix this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u95	And this debatable phase will be decided by Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u96	Thank you, Your Honor! It is a real shame that, for example, Mr Salonen does not want to give fundamental human rights to this minority.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u97	As this reply was strongly directed at Mr Salonen, I will give him another reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u98	Yes, Mr President, everyone in Finland — fortunately Finland is such a country — has a fundamental right to choose their profession, everyone. And if you feel that abortion, for example, is a difficult question of principle for you, then you do not choose the kind of work in which you have to do it. You can still choose the industry, but there you can look for jobs that you don't have to deal with when you have an abortion. And now that these two things are valued, I appreciate that every woman has the fundamental right to decide on her own body, to be the highest value — the highest value.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u101	Now I will give Mr Tanus a reply, and then we will definitely go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u102	President! I agree. A woman in Finland can choose and decide whether to have an abortion or not. It is, of course, as Mr Salonen says. But everyone should also have the opportunity to choose their profession, and in Finland, a person who opposes abortion cannot study as a specialist in gynaecological diseases and childbirths, for example. No other profession includes those things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u103	And now let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u104	Mr President! I am in favour of Mr Tanus' protest at the outset. Human rights are universal rights. These include the integrity of human dignity, the right to life, freedom and non-discrimination, the right to belief and the right to freedom of conscience. Freedom of conscience also includes the right to express conscience in private, in public, in employment and in public office. This right to express these freedoms is one of the most important principles of the EU Constitution, i.e. the right to express its conscience as a conviction and a conscience. In the EU Constitution, the concept of "freedom of religion" includes an emphasis in which the authorities have a duty to secure the expression of religion and conscience freely: "Freedom of opinion is not a government's right to grant or Deny, but a go-vernment's responsibility to guarantee and guard." — Article 3. — Translated: "The freedom of conscience cannot be granted or denied by the state, but it is its responsibility to safeguard and safeguard it." Mr President! This state's duty to protect freedom of conscience and its right to expression has been understood in 24 EU countries. Only in three are this right to freedom of conscience denied. As the fourth country in the EU, Finland now wants to remain on this path, where this freedom of conscience is restricted only to certain people. In its report, the majority of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has come to a position which still holds Finland among the four countries which wish to deny one professional group the fundamental right to freedom of conscience. At the same time, the committee expresses the view that the views and interpretation of these 25 countries about the right of the medical staff to have faith and freedom of conscience are wrong. This is an incomprehensible message from Finland, a model country in the EU, which has anchored itself for a hundred years to the very interpretation of human rights, in which they apply to everyone. Now this freedom of conscience and the right to express this freedom are being taken away from one professional group altogether. The legislation of any country — and least of all the so-called civilized countries — should not, as it were, oblige its citizens to end human life on any pretext. Mr President! The purpose of this citizens' initiative is to bring the situation in Finland to a pan-European level, as freedom of conscience in health care is realised in almost all other EU countries. It is time for Finland to join these countries. We've received a lot of civil mail. I have received dozens of letters and cards, greetings from doctors who say: Thank you that someone also thinks of us and our right to freedom of conscience. Mr President! This Chamber so often talks about equality, about ideals of justice, and they are gladly extended to almost everyone, but it is a strange, incomprehensible mistake here that this single professional group should not have the right to act for life. There are 1250,000 abortions in Europe this year, 10,000 in Finland. This citizens' initiative does not prevent anyone from performing abortions but would give one professional group the right to sleep well at night while maintaining the purity of their conscience. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u105	Mr President! I also support the proposal made by Mr Tanus and, at the same time, thank the representatives of Tanus and Keränen for their objection to this report. This objection has been very skilful in putting together the main arguments why this citizens' initiative should indeed be taken forward. Mr President! I find it very crude and inconsiderate of many young people who dream of a profession as a doctor or midwife to justify this position of majority in committee by saying that this is a question of professional choice, that this is a question of choice of profession. Is it really the view in this Chamber that values such as those of Mr Tanus or myself should not go to study as a doctor or a gynecologist at all, that there are no people in this profession who think that a valuable human life begins with conception? Do we think that this group is to be completely cleaned out of the profession of doctors and nurses? I believe that this is also a question of patients' rights in some situations to choose, for example, a gynecologist with similar values in order to discuss some sensitive issues. In that sense, I think it is very important that if we have different values in Finnish society – as has been pointed out here – we think differently about the value of human life, then those values would also be reflected in this profession, where we want to protect that life from the very beginning. Yes, a considerable number of doctors, as well as nurses, struggle against abortion practices and their own ethical principles. I am constantly getting messages from such persons, or when I go to the gatherings to talk, I am going to have conversations with the midwives or midwives or those who study as a doctor for whom this is a painful matter of conscience. And it is true that this brings to the surface the contradictions between different human concepts and values, such as the question of where life begins, how human dignity relates to other values of life. I would also like to say here that if we are biologically thinking, then biologically the life of a human being begins with conception. No one can deny that. The human embryo functions of an unborn child are amazingly advanced at an early stage. For example, doctors know that the first signs of a developing central nervous system are already seen at the beginning of the third week of the embryo’s life, a week later the heart starts beating, the eighth week has already been able to register the EEG — long before these abortion limits. And it is true that such information, which a doctor has or has a midwife, raises the question as to whether it is now a matter of ending human life if a pregnancy is interrupted. I do not think that this issue should be underestimated in any way. I would like to emphasise once again that when the committee report and the chairman's speech pointed out that there is a risk of this being extended to all kinds of ethical issues, abortion is not just a question of ethics, but of the very core issue of health ethics, namely the protection of life. For many doctors and nurses, abortion really means ending a human life that has begun, and therefore contradicts it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u106	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is not about banning abortion, but about whether a health professional should participate in it against his will. There must be a clear distinction between these two issues during this debate. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomed the need to respect ethical or religious freedom, but only through work organisation. The committee therefore considered it important that freedom of conscience should be exercised. This is the right thing to do. So it is a question of human rights from this point of view too. The reasons for rejecting the initiative in this respect are very impetuous. In principle, work arrangements are not implemented for everyone. The reality, however, is that the current situation in the field must be different. Freedom of conscience would make the line coherent and clear. In almost all European countries, healthcare staff have a statutory right to refuse to take part in abortions on the basis of ethical or religious beliefs. As if Finland were a developing country of health care, where an abortion seeker would not receive treatment if the freedom of conscience of the medical staff were to be provided. Let me question this. Mr President! I'm on the side of life. I'm on the weakest side. The unborn child represents to me the weakest person in the world I can imagine. So it's a matter of life and death. Therefore, in Parliament, in the name of honesty, forced abortion should be spoken in the right terms. You see, many health - care professionals in their conscience wonder whether abortion is just the removal of a cluster of cells or a soulless fetus or whether it is a deliberate ending of life, so it is murder. If and when life begins in the mother’s womb, no human should be forced to participate in the killing of an unborn child. Can a person of a sensitive conscience be guided by law to be calm about his assignment? I doubt that very much. It's like you're saying, come to work in the morning and read on the schedule that today you have to kill one baby, but don't worry, it's legal. This is the reality of those asking for freedom of conscience, what they say in return. They ask whether we have any empathy from the legislators. So they do not demand the legislator’s empathy for even unborn babies, but that they have the right to refuse to participate in the killing of an unborn child. Therefore, I cannot help but wonder why some of you legislators are demanding nursing professionals for a job as a executioner that they themselves do not want to do. Plus, as a cherry on a cake, you're making the wrong career choice. Shame on you, I say. They've come into the business so they can heal and save lives. This, too, is almost entirely their work, so why not give their souls peace in this matter by allowing freedom of conscience. Mr President! Finally, in this delicate legislative situation, I am strongly addressed by the words of the psalmist about the birth of life, in which the unborn child is described as a man: "You created me in my very heart, you congregate me in my mother's womb. I thank you that I am wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows it very well." So wrote the psalmist at Psalm 139. The anchors of my conscience are deeper than people's opinions or fashion trends. They are in God’s Word, they are in the Bible. Therefore, it is very easy for me to identify with a person accused of conscience if he unwittingly participates in abortion. Why, then, should we not follow the general European approach when we are Europeans in so many other areas? That is why Parliament must take a clear responsibility and not put pressure on care facilities at different points in the health sector. Fortunately, we have the freedom to vote according to our conscience, because fortunately it is not yet prohibited by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u107	Mr President! In a country of civilization called Finland women have a statutory right to abortion and are entitled to proper counselling, care and guidance. There is also freedom of religion in Finland. The fundamental human rights, freedom of religion and conscience of a civilised state are guaranteed, inter alia, by the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Finnish Constitution. This citizens' initiative proposes that health care staff should be entitled, on the basis of ethical or religious convictions, to refuse abortion unless the woman's life is in danger. The doctor would also be entitled, on the basis of his conviction, to refuse to produce an opinion leading to an abortion. These rights would also apply to students in these fields. The legal rights of pregnant women would be guaranteed through regional arrangements. Conscience has not been scientifically proven to exist. However, each one of us has a knowledge or a sense of what is good and what is wrong. Conscience is considered to be within each of us, and it is supposed to counsel us in different situations. It's hard to fight a conscience. This is also the case in this bill, although it is also a question of ethical and religious conviction. From the point of view of the healthcare system, it is the primary task of service providers to ensure the patient’s care needs and rights. It is good to take account of the text of the initiative, 'unless the life of a woman is in danger'. If a woman's life is in danger, I believe that this should be taken first of all into account. In this case, it is ethically the most important task to safeguard the mother’s life and health. Even a person with a strong conscience would do this. I don't think a nurse or a doctor can stand by and watch her die just because she couldn't do it herself to help her. The legal rights of pregnant women are proposed by means of regional arrangements guaranteed by the initiative. It is possible, as the committee also states, to do, even if it causes additional work for the staff and effort for the patient. Who needs more work now? Worse, I think that different responsibilities in the field of work can lead to moral stigma on the staff and the change in the care situation of the patient may be a sign of guilt and an attempt to influence the patient’s decision. This fact will easily lead to bullying at the workplace if the culture of managing the workplace is not in order. I believe that the employee's ethical or religious convictions must be respected and that work arrangements must be made to ensure proper care by other staff. I also think that it is a special matter for a pregnant woman to decide whether or not to discontinue a pregnancy. Do you not still need to ask a man in the same household, or do his comments have no weight? I believe that men's rights are being trampled on here. Mr President! As in almost all EU countries, health professionals in Finland must also be guaranteed the right not to take part in a life-ending measure without losing study or job opportunities unless their mother’s health is at risk. If the mother’s life is in danger, the ethics and duties of the health care professional are to save her life with all the measures and methods available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u108	Mr President! The debate here has taken place very strongly in some speeches to defend the right of women to abortion and it has been said that it is placed in a much greater and higher place than, for example, the freedom of conscience guaranteed by the Constitution. It has come to light that these fundamental rights, freedom of conscience and other fundamental rights would be in conflict, as it were, so that we should now choose which right we are going to apply in Finland: if we accept this citizens' initiative, then we would go on trampling on women's rights, or vice versa. I myself assume that when fundamental rights are discussed, they will not be put against each other in the first place, but we must go out and find a solution that will enable us to respect all fundamental rights. I remember, among other things, the debate on last spring's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when the Social Security Decision was discussed, where a lot of public speeches were made about whether local self-government is a higher right than the right of citizens to health care, when we found that there was no need to put these together but to find a solution in which all fundamental rights are realised. I personally see that, in this area, which we are now dealing with in the form of a citizens' initiative, there is a chance, if you want, of finding a solution that respects all rights, including freedom of conscience. In my opinion, the arguments behind this citizens' initiative also show that if this were to happen, no one's legal rights would be violated. That is why I feel that, from the point of view of the implementation of fundamental rights, this citizens' initiative is also well founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u109	Mr President! Indeed, I think that the committee's arguments are good, and note that this is a source of emotion. This is, therefore, a matter of conscience and weighing. But here I would like to repeat what I said earlier. I would like to raise some points on this committee's opinion. However, in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, it has been stated that the protection of private life includes the right of a woman to decide on the termination of pregnancy. Of course, the government can impose restrictions on this. On the one hand, freedom of religion and conscience is stated, but on the other hand, it is stated that it is not an absolute right and cannot, on the basis of it, take action which violates the fundamental rights of others. It has been noted that refusal to discontinue a pregnancy, for example, as part of a job, must not result in a violation of the right of a woman seeking an abortion under the law to a private life. Moreover, a case of a priest who refused to work with a woman — he was a man — has been brought out of national law and has been found guilty of discrimination. It was not sufficient to justify that he refused to do so for his convictions, because Finnish law does not give him the right to discriminate against women. Then, here in the committee's explanatory statement, it is well stated how this can lead to different situations. It is stated here that in the health sector alone there are situations in which the ethical conviction of a professional may affect his or her desire to act in accordance with the rights of the patient laid down by law, and examples of dying patients and fertility treatment have also been presented. From the point of view of the healthcare system, the primary role of service providers has been identified and has to be taken into account by the patient’s need for care and the right-of-service service. I also think it is a good thing that the employer cannot go into the situation of hiring to explain anyone's convictions, and these may also change during employment and employment, and then it is very difficult to know what kind of reserve there is. I can't take a stand when I haven't studied it myself, and I'm not a professional, how this should affect the chances of treatment. But here I remember Mr Kontula, who studied quite different things, saying that there had been problems in Europe when doctors had increasingly refused abortions. But I am not going to comment on them any further when I have the figures in my pocket, because he himself can then speak if he needs to. At the end of this period, the committee states that the decision to suspend pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman herself and must be able to count on her to receive appropriate support and assistance in the health centre to which she applies. Article 10 of the Constitution guarantees the right to privacy and honor, and I therefore believe that no one has to feel that he is a so-called second-class patient if he has to have an abortion for his own personal reasons. I believe that this would open up the right to refuse treatment on the basis of its own announcement. In Finland, we increasingly have citizenships and religions and therefore different beliefs, and I believe that equal treatment of the Constitution and also freedom of religion and conscience mentioned here will lead to different people refusing to perform different tasks in future if this were contrary to their declared convictions. I believe that we should treat citizens equally and that different religions and beliefs cannot be put in a different position in that sense. We also need to think about this. This is the future if it is accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u112	Mr President! I believe that the message of this citizens' initiative is to give care staff the freedom to act on their conscience, to respect their convictions — that is, positive justice without taking anyone away. The initiative does not endanger anyone's life or medically justified treatment. It is not credible that the exemption would be applied for by such a large number of medical staff that it would be relevant to the availability of the service. It is not, therefore, a question of banning abortion, even in theory. Mr President! On the basis of ethical and religious convictions, there are in practice many privileges in our society already, even exemption from military duty. It is difficult to understand the committee's view of the difficulty in applying convictions on this very issue. Let us be open-minded Europeans and allow this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u113	Mr President! It is difficult to talk about this in a neutral way, especially now that there has been talk of killing, of being a executioner and of quoting Bible phrases. But I'm trying to pursue that neutrality. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has concluded in its hearings that the decision to terminate pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman herself and must be able to rely on the appropriate support and assistance in the health centre or hospital to which she is seeking to take a decision. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has discussed the right of refusal to take part in abortion in its resolution of 2010. The starting point of this report was precisely to find out what measures can be taken to safeguard the right to abortion, at the same time as many European countries have given healthcare staff the right to refuse. In particular, there was concern as to how the right to abortion for women living in sparsely populated and deprived women will be exercised in areas with a large number of non-stop professionals. I believe that this concern is justifiable when it comes to a country such as Finland, where there are great geographical distances and also differences in the kind of religious activity and the degree of conviction there is in the region. We therefore believe that we cannot compare Finland to Denmark or Holland, for example, where the situation is quite different. In Finland, abortion legislation is already relatively strict. Although the committee's report did not take a direct position on it, I personally feel, however, that the adoption of this citizens' initiative would make it even more difficult to reach a decision, a decision between a woman or a man or their own, on what is being done to an unborn child. I would now like to bring a personal point of view to this, even though it was asked here to remove them from this debate. However, I think they are very important. I'm almost halfway through my own pregnancy now. So far, everything has progressed absolutely brilliantly, but a situation could arise that the next screening would show that the child, for example, would not have a chance to survive. I believe that it would be a very difficult situation in any case, regardless of what my conviction is or is not, in which case arguments of this kind, that someone else would have the right to decide or in some way comment on what I and we should be doing in this situation, seem quite unreasonable. As I have pointed out before, I believe that even greater concern lies in the fact that health care staff actually have that knowledge and skill in the situation when a woman's life is at risk. In other words, if even during studies the right to refuse education is allowed, how can it be guaranteed that you will be able to take that action in that situation? I believe that this is a major concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u114	Mr President! This issue is extremely difficult, extremely emotional, and it is spoken of in favour and against. I do not want to belittle anyone’s beliefs or religious viewpoint. In my opinion, they should all be respected. If we are talking about a pregnant woman and we are talking about mother's health, then if health is at risk, abortion must be allowed, but now we are talking about health in a very narrow sector, we are just talking about somatic terveys. At this point, we also need to talk about mother’s mental health. If a pregnancy is caused by rape, incest or other incest, it is unreasonable for a mother to be forced to give birth to that child because the child born according to all probability is hated by her mother and the mother will abandon her child afterwards. This is very likely. The second thing that is very difficult about this is when the fetus is human. At what point will the limit be drawn on when to deal with a human being, when to deal with a fetus or with a sperm? If, for example, a sperm cell cannot join the egg because of various prevention measures, is it an ethical issue and support for hedonism. Or is it family planning and relationship management? These are the ethical issues that must be addressed and taken into account in this area as well. If we are talking about the ethical attitude of the nursing staff, about the religious background of the nursing staff, these are of course things that affect what they want to do, what they can do, but these are also things that may also be dealt with by working time arrangements. If we go to the point where, for ethical reasons, a person can refuse to do any work that he has received, we will very soon get to the point where, for example, a taxi driver can refuse to take a woman to a hospital if it is possible that he will go there for an abortion. Or after the procedure has been completed, for example, cleaners may refuse to do their job because they do not want to touch
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u117	Mr President! After our first debate here on this citizens' initiative, I received a great deal of praise for my speech, in which I defended the right of midwives and doctors to refuse to participate in abortions. During that debate, a number of those who opposed the initiative called for the opening of the Pandora's box if this initiative were to become a law. Many of the representatives here spoke of how soon there would then be a number of different parties claiming the right not to take part in a wide range of tasks on the basis of their convictions. However, I would point out that abortion cannot be compared to any other treatment measure. This is a matter of its own, which must be taken seriously. The midwife and the doctor will have to put an end to the life that has begun with their own hands and measures. A lot of people feel like they're the executioner. It is a big thing for those who think that deciding the fate of human life does not belong to man but to some power greater than us. It's a huge ethical issue. Then why do you apply to the industry, even though you have known in advance that abortion is part of the job description? Because, fortunately, work is much more than that: improving and sustaining the quality of human life. Mr President! These days, hospitals combine wards. For example, at least in the recent past, the Central Finland Central Hospital has a combination of different departments during weekends and holidays, i.e. so-called closing times. For example, the gynaecological department and the ear department have been merged. At that time midwives also did the work of ear nurses and ear nurses. Work often has to be learned during work, as there has been no specialisation in the fields of either basic education. Has the ear nurse considered and considered taking part in abortions when she started her education? I don't think so. Similarly, plans may have changed with the ever-changing society seeking savings and hospital units, including professionals in the field. Work is done where it is, and everyone must know how to do everything. That's what development is going on in hospitals. This is a serious matter. The right of a woman to decide her body and her affairs is being emphasized all the time. A little start-up life can't defend itself. In today's Finland, prevention would be relatively easy to avoid. Sexual counseling must be developed, and it meets people. Doctors, midwives and nurses are professionals in the field, and they are sure to be happy to do sexual education. That's the right solution, not the staining of the hands on the blood of a small person. And the good advice of the people is to do it: close your pants. There's been a lot of talk here about forced laws and so on. Isn't that what's coming? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u118	Mr President! I think there has been a good debate in the Chamber, and I understand the concerns of many. Many of you may know that I myself have been a doctor for over 20 years. During that time I have been treating women and families and children, for the past 10 years as a specialist in gynaecology and childbirth, and I have had to do and see everything during my studies. I would like to say to Congressman Tolpppa when it comes to rape and incest, that the problem is if a girl or a woman does not go to a doctor after the rape. Otherwise, if he goes to a doctor, then a medicine, a tablet, can be given, that the pregnancy does not even begin, but, as has been said, this initiative does not limit any abortion. Abortion will continue to be granted, as it is today under the conditions required by the law, throughout Finland. Then it has been said that abortion is not a means of contraception. It really should not be a means of contraception, but unfortunately, for some people, life is quite wild, I would say, and when there is a God knows how many abortions there will be, one might wonder if it is still a means of contraception. More than half of those entering abortion have not used any kind of contraception. More than half. I fully agree that we should — and I myself have tried — remind both young people and women who have given birth or have given birth at school that prevention must be taken care of. Perhaps one thing we should also stress to young people is that if you have intimate contact with someone of the opposite sex, it becomes pregnant. I mean, you get pregnant when you have intercourse. True, this does not always happen, but if this basic rule were more in mind, I would believe that prevention would be better used than it should be. It has been said that this is a question of choice of profession. Yes, this is a question of professional choice. This is a very interesting profession. I am privileged when I can listen to the stories of girls and women and be there to help and support them even when life has taken us so far that we are in a very heavy and complex situation in which a woman has no choice but very bad choices to choose from. Then it is good to have a doctor who can listen, calmly, warmly support, help, think about what is being done. Today, the problem with health care and medical care is that there is no time for patients. They have no chance of telling and bringing out their real fears, their hopes, and, worst of all, some women are also going to abortion because they are being pressured to do so. The woman decides — not the doctor, not the health care staff, not one of them decides in practice about abortions, at least in my office. In fact, this citizens' initiative has brought my own ideas to the attention of the people, otherwise the patients have been able to tell and have made their decisions. Personally, I see that the most important thing is that the different options should be reviewed, that the woman knows what the situation is, what the alternative can result from. Today, too, the adoption option is far too rare to be raised. In this regard, Mr Multala was concerned that if you refuse during your studies. It must be said that during study, you learn to study a woman, to study a pregnant womb, to learn how to use an ultrasound, and to study a fetus. In other situations there will be uterine discharges, scrapings, vacuuming in miscarriages, bleeding disorders, windfall pregnancies. So abortions do not need to be performed because of a sudden procedure. Similarly, acute laparotomies, that is, emergency sections, are made in many other situations. In other words, I am sure that the necessary professional skills will be learned in other tasks. Then it said regional arrangements. I can come back to this later, but even now this is done through regional arrangements. Even in Helsinki, abortion is not given in every block, but in certain areas, in certain clinics where it is performed. Tampere, for example, has two different public hospitals, an outpatient clinic where abortions are performed. So now there is a regional arrangement. Similarly, I can think that the health centre has a side of the maternity clinic, is the reception side. It's a regional arrangement inside that building. Or if you look at the compartments: I do not see that it is good for the patient that the same rooms include both those who undergo abortion and those who mourn and give birth to miscarriage. It's not the best for patients, it's not the best for medical personnel. So there, too, within the departments, within the clinic, a regional arrangement can be, for example, another department or the end of a particular department. Which is the area, it can be very different. The best of the patient and staff, both can be taken into account with this initiative. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u119	Mr President! This said that after rape and incest you should immediately come to the doctor so that you could then give a penitentiary pill. But now it is that, especially when it comes to incest, those little girls do not get to leave their homes and do not dare and do not even know that this is the way to go. That is the unfortunate thing. It is to be hoped that even when abortion is still possible they will be able to come, someone will tell them that we have to go to the doctor and now we have to do something. The second point was that abortion is used as a means of contraception. It is certainly quite rare, but if this is the case that a woman is having an abortion every year because she does not know what contraceptives are, then the caring staff will also have responsibility. They will then have to guide them on this matter and advise them on how to prevent it, and possibly even recommend contraception that does not need to be put on separately each time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. This citizens' initiative and also the committee's report are about values: values between the rights of the patient and the rights of the staff. In learning to be a specialist in gynaecology, it is also a matter of values and choices. As Mr Tanus said, the technical conduct of abortion is not rocket science. But facing a person in a difficult situation in life is one of the most difficult tasks, the most challenging tasks in health care. And that is the growth in competence that is at issue in specialist medical training, not just in the training of procedures. That is why it is important for each specialist to be able to master the specific issues in his field, to be able to face the challenges of patients, people, in different life situations, and to be able to pass through the issues, problems, diseases and challenges of a patient who has come into his care in a holistic way. So it's the doctor's duty to help his patient. Every single health professional, every one of them in his own work on a weekday, has to go through various ethical questions, reflect on his or her relationship with the patient’s value choices, reflect on his or her relationship with treatment practices and resources. It is the everyday life of a doctor and every health professional, and that is why each professional is also obliged to make choices about the tasks, where he performs his work, where he specialises and what kind of activities he does in his own career. Both doctors and midwives have options in which these ethical questions raised in this citizens' initiative do not need to be taken up or addressed by these patients. It is also possible for us to have a debate on other ethical issues that we will answer in society if we open the possibility or alternative to this issue. I do not want to list them now during this speech. There wouldn't even be time for that. It is simply that professionalism also requires participation in tasks that would not always be desirable or feasible on their own basis or idea. I cannot and do not want to be involved in increasing the risk, in this case, of humiliating the patient, the person and especially the woman, of being understated, bounced or other inappropriate treatment. I cannot be increasing the risk of increasing inequality from the point of view of access to services. It is precisely for these reasons that, on the basis of the evaluation, I am behind the committee's report as strongly as I can.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u121	Mr President! I support this citizens' initiative because I want Finland's practice and legislation to be put at the same pan-European level as it is in almost all other Western European countries. Good and well-founded speeches have been used in this Chamber, although many of these speakers have come to the opposite conclusion and do not want to support the citizens' initiative. On the other hand, there have been speeches and arguments here that I wonder whether these people have actually read this citizens' initiative. It has been said here in a number of speeches that there would be some sort of interference with the right to abortion and that there would be restrictions on women's rights. It is disconcerting that such conclusions have been reached, and in that sense, for example, Mrs Raassissina's speech was once again an excellent speech, an objection that was quite well understood, even though she came to a different view from what I have. In this opinion, the committee repeatedly calls for work to be carried out by means of working arrangements. However, this committee's opinion does point to the fact that in many workplaces this issue has been resolved through internal agreements. However, it is then stated that in all jobs this has not been possible. It is good and honest, because the same committee report, in this initial section, highlights the fact that, in the case law of 77 C.E., a doctor has been dismissed who refused to have abortions on social grounds. In that sense, this committee's report contradicts itself on these points. On the other hand, the committee stresses that a statement has been made in connection with the reform of fundamental rights that the ethical and religious beliefs of the worker should be respected and that work arrangements should primarily be sought to ensure proper care by other staff. However, it has not been possible to find out how many of these situations exist in which this working arrangement could actually be used. In that sense, it seems difficult for the committee to stress so much about these working arrangements, because we have a court order in which a doctor has been fired for refusing to have an abortion. In that sense, the person in the field — who wonders whether this freedom of conscience in the field of work is being invoked and whether, for example, colleagues are going to discuss this matter, not to mention the employer’s representative — is certainly in mind that these arguments may have led to the loss of a person’s job. On the other hand, there is this issue in the objection and in the explanatory statement. An estimated and reported report from the Medical Association shows that perhaps about 10 percent of gynecologists might refuse abortions on grounds of freedom of conscience. Also, based on a survey conducted at the University of Kuopio, about 5 percent would perhaps be those who would exercise this freedom of conscience. Even in the sense that the argument has been used here in this Chamber that there are now huge numbers of those conscientiously refusing, and that this would in some way make things more difficult, for example regionally, the data that we have and that has been presented is not there to support these arguments. I would also urge that the committee should have come to this pan-European situation to examine and take into account how other European countries have organised this issue. If we look at countries such as Belgium or the Netherlands where euthanasia legislation is in place, then in Belgium and the Netherlands no doctor needs to take part in euthanasia measures either as well as in abortion. There is freedom of conscience in these countries, but it is different in Finland. In my reply, I also asked how, at a time when we have the free movement of labour in Europe, to ensure that people who have received their education in countries with freedom of conscience can then enter the Finnish labour market when this freedom does not exist here. In that sense, I would have liked this to be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u122	Mr President! Representative Meri, who has now left us, described how, in her profession, she has had to do difficult and heavy things, such as murder cases as a judge or cases of child sexual abuse, and there is no way to refuse them. Well, this initiative is certainly not about removing the responsibility of a doctor or nurse to take part in difficult and heavy and unpleasant tasks, but about the core value of health ethics, namely the protection of life, respect for life and, of course, how it is interpreted on the basis of different convictions. The World Medical Association, as well as the World Midwives Association, have left it and have taken the view that staff should have freedom of conscience in relation to abortion, precisely on the basis that abortion includes this ethical issue, which is subject to such different legitimate views, and it is unnecessary, as it were, to exclude from this field those persons whose convictions are that human life, human dignity, starts with conception. That is why I do not think that this issue should be compared with the difficult and heavy ones, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u123	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support the objection raised by Mr Tanus, which was omitted in this first speech. In the speeches here, attention has been drawn to the fact that the fear of access to abortion or of reducing access to it would be real if this freedom of conscience were allowed. This is completely unfounded, for, for example, according to a study by the University of Kuopio, only 5% of doctors would have to exercise this freedom of conscience if they had it. This should be taken into account when we talk about the fact that citizens' initiative makers want to put access to healthcare at risk — it is not very justified. These positive effects of freedom of conscience must also be taken into account if this were to be allowed, for they are here too, and they have not yet been brought up. First of all, by allowing freedom of conscience, we would have all the most talented and motivated individuals in the field. There are those who do not seek in this area for this very reason. Many of them apply to work abroad or to other occupations. Secondly, we would avoid situations where a skilled and kept professional is dismissed because of his conviction. There really are cases like this. Thirdly, we would reassure the working environment of the care facilities. We do not want professionals to have to focus on such policies rather than on their actual work. And fourthly, one positive observation is that in the health sector it is about meeting people. Who can do it best? The one, of course, who is in balance with his own life. Balance is not promoted by acting against one’s conscience. We all know this. Mr President! There have also been arguments that regional inequality would occur if some of the staff were not involved in abortions. Abortion is extremely rarely an urgent measure. The most important thing, therefore, is the safety of the service and not its location. In life - threatening situations, of course, each doctor participates in abortion regardless of the matter of conscience. This is also clearly stated in this citizens' initiative. The safest place for an abortion is a maternity hospital. Is it even reasonable to decentralise abortions at regional level? To give birth to long journeys in a hurry to ensure that conditions are as safe as possible, this is the purpose of the maternity hospital. Why can't we do the same with abortion? Mr President! It has also been argued that if a doctor or health care worker does not take part in an abortion in education, he will not be able to do his job. Yes, sometimes abortion must be done in a hurry to save a woman’s life even if you do not want it. Midwives and doctors can do everything they need, even if they do not do abortions otherwise, for example in connection with their education. The same measures are necessary in ectopic pregnancies and in the case of dead foetuses. In an emergency, you do not need to practice the necessary skills separately by performing abortions. As a result, for example, a person studying as a midwife does not need to take part in her education in abortion. The primary task of a midwife is to save life, to bring an unborn child safely into the world. We must remember that we do not unnecessarily paint such devils on the walls that, if such freedom of conscience were allowed, the whole health sector would be in crisis. I therefore wonder about the statement and criticism of the Midwives' Association and the Gynecologists' Association against this initiative. The Midwives Association and the Gynecologist Association focus on values, not on practical measures, and they look at values from only one point of view. As has been said here, this is a matter of value. We know, as Mr Räsänen has pointed out here, that these values are seen differently in the eyes of, for example, the World Midwives' Association or the World Medical Association. In that sense, this northern periphery Finland is not the place of truth from which only a negative view can be taken of such a good citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u124	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here despite a difficult subject. Kari Kulmala and Markus The salmon did speak in a very sensible manner and had clearly understood the essence of this initiative. It has been somewhat disconcerting that the committee has chosen the right to have abortion as a priority in its own opinion and has not really seen what this whole citizens' initiative is all about, and it is admittedly the idea that there has been a strong sense of purpose in the whole setting when this debate has taken place in that committee. No one thinks that the fact that someone does not want to steal violates the rights of someone who wants to steal or even be robbed. A little, Speaker, I'm simplistic. No one thinks that wanting to be faithful in one’s marriage would violate the rights of one who wants to be unfaithful or deceived. But suddenly, when a nurse or a doctor wants not to participate in the interruption of life, it is somehow miraculously against women’s right to want to have an abortion. There is no logic and no sense in this process of thinking, so I hope — if anyone listens to these speeches and thinks — that we will actually focus on what this citizens' initiative has been all about: one of the freaks of Finnish legislation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Thank you for your excellent contributions. The co-operative working arrangements have not exactly worked everywhere in Finland, and it has not been possible to study as a gynecologist in Finland. That is precisely why this citizens' initiative began and has brought my life closer to two years. I do not want to collect any additional bonus points, but perhaps I will tell you anyway: some of you have seen me tear very much at this job, and I can tell you that this has not happened at any other workplace. The reason is that when we collected statements of support for the citizens' initiative, I heard a great deal of stories from nurses, midwives over the decades, and there were so many grotesque, painful stories and stories that I asked those young medical students who were also collecting statements of support for the citizens' initiative, how you were doing, how you were doing. But it turns out they weren't told so many stories. I also received a tremendous amount of e - mail about what the midwives and nurses had been through and the collegiate work arrangements that had not been successful at the very hospital to do how they had to lose their jobs. For example, the only provider of the family, the mother of the children, felt that she could no longer participate in one of the abortions where the fetus lived for a long time and was expected to die. She would have been a good delivery nurse. There are fewer than 58,000 births in Finland, and there are only about 350 long weeks of interruptions. Depending on the hospital, you may come once a year, twice a year, once a year. Thus, in some hospitals in Finland, midwives lose their jobs or there will be no further job. On the other hand, in some hospitals collegiality has worked. Then somehow it seems that over the last few weeks, those stories of living life have come to mind and body and heart in such a way that it has been quite a pain, and it has been kind of grudging to see and hear in committee too, how many people just want to ignore and overwhelm the rights of these midwives. That no matter what they have experienced while caring for women, showing empathy to their patients, trying to do everything as well as possible, they are not being listened to and their basic human rights are not being exercised. It seems a bit creepy that those of us who want to be part of Western Europe still want to prevent the fundamental human rights from being realised by this professional group. There is also concern here that abortions could become more difficult, as in some European countries. I would also like to point out, for example, what has been quoted, in Italy: that so many people are refusing there, up to 70%. If 70 per cent of the gynecologists in Finland refused, more than 200 gynecology would remain. It is much more than the number of gynecologists who are involved in their practical work today. Perhaps you are wondering if it is worth considering Italy as an example country, which has been used as an example: 120,000 abortions every year. 120,000. When we had a session break, I flew to Milan and walked there to the local clinic. I didn't meet the gynecologist, but the nurse was surprised that we didn't have an abortion, because they do it in the hospital. There are 120,000 abortions every year. So there's a lot of people to do it. Perhaps they are more oblivionous, of its meaning and use. On the other hand, in Italy a few years ago in Congress I listened to the material, there were over 200 birthers over 60 years of age. That is, in Italy, the result of fertility treatments is the birth of 60 - year - olds. So I would see that it might not be worth raising Italy as an example. Other countries and their history I could also use as an example here, but time is passing. But all I am saying is that the media is raising, the texts and the interviews are raising, very incorrectly, the situation in the countries of Europe. That you shouldn't blindly take them as examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u126	Mr President! It is very good that, from the point of view of the healthcare system, service providers are primarily responsible for providing patient care and rights-based services, including abortions. It is quite unreasonable that a woman who has often made a very painful decision to have an abortion would have to look for a health care unit in which to find these professionals who agree to do this. Indeed, as has been said here, in a remote area, this could mean that there is no time for action to be taken, it is unnecessarily delayed, because it is of course quite clear that it should be done early in the day, so that we do not have these long, many weeks of interruptions. As far as the right of health care staff to have abortion is concerned, I think that it is up to them to try to find a job in which these issues can be resolved by internal arrangements, and I regret to say that, if there is no such place, then we may have to consider whether there is a proper sector. What is more, it is important to focus attention on the need to provide preventive advice and to pay attention to the resources of school health care. Then these questions would not even have to be asked so often.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u127	Madam President! That is why I took a stand on this issue when I have a friend who has worked at the hospital and had to give up that assignment because there were so many of these abortions in front of him. One woman, among other things, had been there for the fourth time, and the small, the size it is now, but my friend said that eyelashes, nails had grown, heart beats, all vital functions like a normal baby. He couldn't continue that job and then had to give up. Yeah, it's about this kind of thing. I'm the one who quit my own dog sometimes, and I think it's a pretty tough job, it's like family. If you can't say that I'm not doing it, I'll be surprised. If a child is like a human shape and like this, I could not go to that kind of thing, no matter how educated I am. That's why I took a stand here. This is a friend who dreams about them, always talks to me about what a terrible job it was. You don't have to do this in this country if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u128	Madam President! It is true that practical work arrangements can in many cases safeguard the conscience of doctors or midwives, and this is also encouraged by the Medical Association, for example. I welcome the fact that this is also mentioned in the committee report, and I hope that it will be further developed if tomorrow's vote does not lead to this citizens' initiative as it is. However, it is a fact that these problems exist in practice, that they come in practice to doctors, midwives and other health care professionals, and that is why this outlaw is so much needed. I would consider it very valuable that in Finland a doctor who respects the value of human life from conception can also become a gynecologist. I can say on my own behalf, Madam President, that during the course of gynaecology, each student had to empty the womb and in practice, in most cases, it meant abortion, but at that time it was possible, on the basis of conviction, to refuse, as I did. It was then replaced by a different type of uterine discharge that was not related to abortion. I am sure that, as a doctor myself, if a woman's life had been in danger, a abortion would have been carried out, so the professional capacity will be brought into this procedure if the situation arises that a woman's life is in danger.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u129	Mr President! I have listened to these speeches in the study and then here in the Chamber. I have been a little confused about how to deal with this citizens' initiative, but I have marked things up: abortion must not be a means of contraception, the right to abortion must not be interfered with, and we need good, dedicated staff in the field of health care. We cannot afford to lose those who, because of their convictions, would have to leave their jobs or not apply. I myself have worked in the health sector on the X-ray side, and pregnant mothers have been photographed, but I have not been involved in these procedures myself. But I believe that shifts can and can be arranged in such a way that those with convictions can be replaced. But the most crucial part of my decision on this citizens' initiative is that I can support it, because I see it as an important point when the citizens' initiative specifically says 'if the mother's life is not in danger'. In other words, a person, a person who has conviction and cannot be involved in abortion, will be involved if the situation is so serious that the mother’s life is in danger. This was a crucial issue and I will support this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u130	Madam President! Mr Elomaa’s genuine speech was good in the sense that he studied matters and drew conclusions based on the facts and the fictions. Similarly, a number of speakers have heard children who have not actually understood what is at stake, because many people think that abortion is being banned here. In my opinion, the legislator's first duty would be to get a proper look at the matter before taking such important decisions. When we vote for such a citizens' initiative, we either vote by emotion or by knowledge, and I hope that decisions will be taken according to knowledge, because so often in this Parliament you see decisions taken by emotion and emotion. I was particularly touched by these reports by Mr Tanus on how a midwife has to take part in an abortion in her profession, for example, in the event of childbirth, even if she is able to save her life and life. It is often imagined that abortion is the removal of a small lump of cells at an early stage, but this example, which Mr Tanus mentioned, also described very clearly what the fundamental issue of the health care staff concerned with conscience is. They would like to protect and save life and lives, but they would not be allowed to do so. Since we know that this is a very easy job arrangement to implement, however it may be with this citizens' initiative, I appeal, as Mr Räsänen mentioned: the Association of Local Authorities and Hospital Districts, the least you can do, is to create such work arrangements and guidelines so that no worker needs to take part in such measures contrary to his conscience. It is possible to do this, and here we decision-makers also have to talk things out at municipal level and have those debates in order for such equality to take place. Mr President! However, one important point needs to be made clear here: Despite its negative opinion, the Medical Association did not oppose this citizens' initiative. The Medical Association hopes that the matter will be dealt with on the basis of a working schedule. Similarly, the Midwives' Association did not see the need for this citizens' initiative because they believe that this is a marginal problem. The ironic question arises: Is that why not all midwives are so organized into it, but, as I understand it, there are a very large number of those who have not joined the Midwives Association? And the Midwives' Association here has exactly the same perspective that they do not see the need for this organization. I understand and feel sorry for the midwives who fall victim to such a trade union which does not give them the fundamental right to do that work, i.e. save life. Mr President! Finally, I would like to remind you that in 21 countries of the 25 EU countries in which abortion is permitted, freedom of conscience has been enshrined in the legislation. In that sense, as I said in my previous speech, Finland is quite a backward country. This is not a question of trampling on the rights of any woman; it is a question of trampling on the rights of those who want to save and protect life — men and women, health professionals. Mr President! I would like to remind you that, for this very reason, Finnish doctors who are currently dreaming of a special field of gynecology cannot specialise in their duties if they are not prepared to participate in abortion. This means that they head abroad with their bags to study and possibly then work there. We simply cannot afford this, for example, because we still know that less than half of the specialists in Gynecology in Finland are in hospitals. After all, most of them work in offices where abortions are not part of the job description at all. Pregnancy interruptions are only a very small part of the extensive field of gynecology, as Mr Tanus has also mentioned here. In that sense, Mr President-in-Office, I hope that we will have empathy and understanding for those people who wish to serve the Finnish health system to allow them at least such a job arrangement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u131	Madam President! Yes, I would like to ask you: Is it right for young doctors in Finland who want to specialise in gynecology to go to Europe? Is it right that Finland is such a Western democracy that in our own country — where we talk about a high level of education and we can have good education in so many areas — young doctors specialising in gynaecology who do not want to end the life of the smaller patient cannot graduate into a profession in Finland? In Europe, in many countries, as I mentioned in Italy, they really did not understand at first that there is such a situation in Finland as it is. In fact, many Finnish citizens have also been very surprised that it can be that in Finland you cannot specialise in the profession of a specialist doctor, a gynecologist, without taking part in ending your life. Students are not in an equal position in the sense that midwives, for example, can graduate from the profession. They do not need to take part in abortion during their studies. Then it's about where they can work. I know that, for example, in Helsinki and the Uusimaa region, where one third of all abortions in Finland are made, some hospitals have reported that we are so hectic, we are so busy that if you do not participate not only in childbirth but also in abortion, you cannot come to work at all. All I ask is, who of us would like to go into a ward so busy that the same nurses and midwives have to jog between abortions and miscarriages as well as menacing abortions and those who have given birth. There was a debate here earlier on the committee's report, and I was, in fact, very disappointed with it. On the other hand, I was also disappointed by the many statements made, but at the same time I understood what we parliamentarians should understand when we are doing this work. We should understand who the experts are saying and what they are saying. It is disconcerting that even in Finland — when you have rank, you come from a large official institution, you have a title after your name — you can, as it were, say very ultraliberal opinions or very purposeful statements. As a doctor, I and the doctors deal very much with the fact that everything you write and everything you put under your name must be transparent, that is to say, it must also be viewed by the great conclave. I would just like to say that you will continue to look at what statements are, who is saying, and look deeper. It's been painful to notice the process that's going on in this house. In time, I have said, many times in my studies there in Soviet Russia, with sadness, that I did not want to know everything I know about the way in which decisions can be influenced in Finland. One thing about the committee's report: When it is said that an employer does not have the opportunity to determine ethical or religious beliefs in connection with the employment of a person, then when abortion is involved, there really is no need to ask questions of conviction. It is a normal thing to ask questions about what a professional person has done in his previous career, whether he can perform such or such cuts, do such duplicating, and in exactly the same way one can ask questions about abortions. That is certainly not an obstacle when it comes to who is being hired for the job. It was still difficult to have an abortion in a sparsely populated area. In the sparsely populated area, individual health centers do not currently receive it, but they are certain hospitals where they can be found and access becomes more difficult when small hospitals are closed down. Every patient has the right to receive a copy of the medical records after a doctor’s visit, whether it be a stomach or a toe problem. In the same way, a person contemplating abortion can get such a medical report from the first doctor and then, for example, call the clinic where the follow-up will be done. There are many, many practical arrangements here. That's the way you look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u132	Thank you, Madam President, and everyone else who is still able to deal with this issue, and this is an important issue. I say to Sari Tanus that I have noticed that this has been a big and hard work for her and I appreciate that she believes in her cause and is able to work for it. In that sense, thank you, although I happen to disagree with you on this point, but this is just a matter, and we are still friends. But just a few more things I would like to say myself when Mr Tanus talked about a few cases that I had a little bit of in my ear: when some nurses had been told that it was too busy to come to work if you did not participate in these abortions. Is this not proof that it is not possible to take this conviction into account by means of work arrangements and that it would be even more difficult if there were an absolute right to refuse that work? In that sense, it bothered me a little bit. Then, in Mr Tanus’ speech, it was also possible to ask about abortion. Well, probably, but a very sensitive one must be — I myself have been a supervisor — that it does not ask questions that should not be asked about another person’s beliefs and religion. And of course the assumption is, if you apply for a job somewhere, that you can perform all the tasks. Usually it is not asked if you are now applying for a job, which involves various things, so that you can not take care of everything. I myself wonder that belief can change in a person and then it can become a problem. I too have a lot of acquaintances, and a doctor was in contact with me, and he just talked about it in a way that he too said that taking part in abortion is one of the most unpleasant jobs he has had to do, but he has no conviction, and he said that he is doing it. But he told me a little in that way ironically that if this kind of thing comes, that it is for conviction's sake to refuse, then he too will start to refuse, because he doesn't really like that work so much either. Well, this was just a thought like this, what I was wondering was that when it certainly isn't pleasant for anyone that cheerfully goes there, then, I understand that for others there comes such a feeling that ah, then I get to do these nasty things. I understand that people have convictions, and I know that this is certainly a heavy matter, and it may not be the same, but in my earlier speech I said that we all have the kind of duties that belong to the job. I wonder, for example, that the legal profession has a role to play as a lawyer. A lawyer cannot refuse a job. Customers come, he's a government official, and you have to defend pedophiles and murderers. Of course, there's no one dying, but it's really distressing. I myself have been a public defender, and I had a really hard time taking certain things into my own office, and it was really hard for me to defend some customers, and maybe that's why I went to work on the other side. I changed jobs. However, although it has been understated here, I see that there is also a desire to demonise abortion in itself, although it was pointed out in the previous speech that there is no ban on abortion. Well, no, I have understood that, yes, I have understood this, at least in my opinion, but the terms'murder' and'murdering' have been used here, and they are guilty of the woman who has to end up with it. Although some people are unsatisfied about contraception, so that there is room for improvement, it must also be remembered that contraception sometimes fails, that no contraception is 100%, and then it is precisely that you may be raped and otherwise have a variety of backgrounds. I understand the point of this bill and, of course, I understand that people have different convictions and that they should be respected. But I do see in it such a constitutional matter that if we decide on the basis of one conviction — even if this is a serious matter, I do not want to belittle it, but when it is a legal measure — then, when we have very different religions, is this the way then that we will soon have jobs, that people will have the right, for reasons of equality, to refuse different jobs if they find it contrary to their beliefs. As a lawyer, I'd say it might be possible. I'm not sure because it has to weigh different things, but this is also one of the reasons why I think I don't want to open up this kind of opportunity. Then I'll have to get into other jobs. That's what I've been doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u133	Madam President! First of all, I would like to comment on the speech made by Mrs Mere when she described how difficult and difficult things had to be done in her profession. I would like to emphasise that this citizens' initiative is certainly not removing the responsibility of a doctor or nurse to take part in difficult or unpleasant tasks. Yes, in a very similar way we are dealing with very difficult life - styles that can burden the staff, but this is now a matter of the core value of health ethics, namely, life and death, the protection of life, and how it is interpreted on the basis of different beliefs. But, Madam President, I would venture to bring to the attention of Parliament the experience of a midwife, Marjo Saarinen, who is a midwife. He has specifically wanted this to be communicated to Parliament, and so I shall now read the letter he has written, in which he tells us, describing what this practically feels like in the work of a midwife. And now a quote from his letter: "I worked in the pregnant section and liked my work. But after that day, I could no longer think of continuing my work in which I would have to go against my deep conviction. I had been divided into a woman who was due to have a late abortion, and I had already had nearly 23 weeks of pregnancy. I was hoping the baby wouldn't be born on my own shift because I didn't want to see the consequences of what I did. That's not what happened. The baby was born during my shift and to the horror of everyone alive. He let out his first cry and he was baffling his arms and legs. I went to the pediatrician in the next room to ask what we are doing: do we revive when the baby is alive and fights for his life? Nothing was done because it was a late abortion. So we were just waiting for the life signs to fade. It happened after about ten long minutes. I went to the office and cried, told my coworkers what had happened, told them that I had killed a person with my own hands and never came back to do it again. My coworkers comforted me and told me it wasn't your choice. It was a woman's choice. I went to the office of a work psychologist to dismantle the event on several occasions. He noted that my mental health had been compromised when I had to act against my conviction. Our legislation gives a woman the freedom to make a decision based on her own values and philosophy as to whether she will continue to become pregnant or whether she will end up having an abortion. Many would feel unjust if a woman were forced into either decision. However, the medical staff is in a situation where they can be forced to participate with their own hands in activities that are a tangible act against their convictions, life and death." And then, Mr President, the midwife, Marjo Saarinen, describes how she still wants to act as a midwife, for example, in the nursery ward, to direct fresh parents in early interaction, but because she is incapable of abortions and is not legally safe at the moment, she cannot do the work of a midwife. And I say that there is one specific case here, one concrete victim of the lack of legislation that we currently have. I would also like to stress that in many cases the working arrangements will be able to deal with these situations. For example, I personally have been in a fortunate position to say that although I have left the fact that I will not, for example, write and never write abortion statements while practicing the doctor’s profession, this conviction was respected at the places of employment that I myself sought to do. As early as the job interview, the supervisor said that this was an absolutely respectable and respectable conviction, and the work was organised so that it was not necessary to participate in them. But it is not possible in all situations, and that is why we in Finland also need the legislation that exists in almost all European countries at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u134	Madam Speaker! As a follow-up to the previous speech by Räsänen: I know the midwife Marjo Saarinen personally, and it is confusing to think that Finland, a democratic Western country, sometimes feels that conviction is just like a curse word. After that incident, he cannot continue to handle abortions, perhaps once or twice a year, and he has not been permitted to leave them aside by work arrangements but has lost his profession. At the same time, for example, if a nurse has back problems, certain tasks may be exempted from work, or even severe hypertension, night shifts may be exempted, or if a person on the health care staff is pregnant, there is no need to take part in abortions. Is this not quite the case then that, if there is conviction, it is not taken seriously enough? Well, then I would say to Mrs Mere that much more than 90% of the interruptions are now being made in a medical way, that is to say, in a medical way, women themselves are having abortions. On the other hand, in relation to our professional sector, the gynecologist, we have such a wide range of our professions that none of the current gynecologists carry out all the research measures or do not carry out all the measures that belong to the sector. Within the industry, it is quite normal for some women's diseases, for example, to be focused on the treatment of cancer patients, some on infertility treatments, or so on, so that abortion would be forced to break down for all when there is a very clear division within the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u135	Madam President! One comment here I would like to make to Mrs Mere, who is my colleague, is that participation in abortion is not a pleasant task for everyone. This is certainly true of what you said, and then you justified it by saying that, therefore, we should not make a distinction between who or who participates in it, but that everyone should do the same job or practice another profession. I think this is a bit of a logic that as long as the ending of life is mandatory for everyone, a health professional can avoid his own awkward reflections. That is probably what this is all about. In other words, those deep down who know that they are making a wrong or possibly very difficult decision want to alleviate their own pain by forcing everyone into the same boat. Collective guilt therefore seems smaller, at least in the sense of this lawyer's logic, which is what we thought. If I wanted to use a term of war, isn't that the way it goes that when there are many shooters in the firing squad, the guilt is reduced. This is what we do in the military during the war. But, Mr President, what I would like to say here: When the Finnish Medical Association considers that a doctor has the right to act in accordance with his conviction, as long as he ensures that he does not jeopardise the patient's right to receive the treatment, contraception or abortion that he needs, then why would the Medical Union not grant such freedom of conscience? Well, in their response the Medical Association stated that they felt that efforts should be made to carry out such tasks by means of management and collegiate methods. Now that it has become very clear today that this is not going to happen and it is therefore clear that in different places midwives, for example, are in a very unequal position, is it not very logical in some way to remedy this? Mr President! This was also new information for me, as Mr Räsänen or Mr Tanus mentioned, that there will be about 350 abortions during the weeks 20 to 24 of pregnancy, of which only about 10% will be in pain relief until the delivery room. In that sense, this amount is very small, and this representative The birth of abortion, as an example of räsänen, is extremely damaging to a person who has no heartfelt desire to deal with such a matter. In that sense, I would like to say that these living examples would make our decision-makers wonder what we could do to ensure that everyone's right to high-quality health care is fulfilled, but at the same time we would not lose to other tasks those professionals who want to serve our health system without participating in abortion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u136	Thank you, Mr Niikko, for that assessment, as I said, that guilt would be reduced and then everyone will understand that they are doing the wrong thing. However, I did not say that, it was perhaps a little freely interpreted. So I told him that a doctor told me that he didn’t like those measures either. I didn't say he felt it was wrong, I said it wasn't pleasant to anyone. And I don't think it's nice for anyone, but it's still professional, it's legal. I mean, the fact that it doesn't feel nice isn't the same thing that a person thinks this is wrong. But you asked what could be done with the fact that if you are at the point of being so advanced a person as to be so concerned that you could survive, for example, in the preterm. I used to talk to you. Perhaps we could consider whether the limit should be changed at the latest. I think it might be the...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u137	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u138	Madam Speaker! I would like to say here to all of us that we need to think about and ask: will fundamental human rights continue to be realised in health care? I would hope that tomorrow's vote will mean that they will also take place in Finland. And yes, I have thought that if the result of the vote is another, then what will I tell colleagues in Europe, nurses, midwives and doctors: that we, who talk about being one of the most progressive countries in Western Europe, would not have such a fundamental human right in health care. I understand that this subject involves a lot of pain, a lot of pain. I know that there are people in this room too, in this house, to whom it is a painful thing, both personally and in relation to the people around us, and in terms of work history. But I would like to say, as I asked at that early stage, whether we are going to let our own pain and emotions decide what to vote for, or whether the decision-makers are listening to the voice of their own senses. That answer comes from you. And I say that if we want to defend fundamental human rights in this Chamber, fundamental human rights, both for patients who are thinking about abortion and for patients who end up with it, and for health care staff, then there is only one possibility of voting. And deep down, I believe that every Member of Parliament knows what it means to vote correctly. I would like each of us not only to be sensitive — despite all the previous speeches or votes or interviews — but also to have the courage to vote correctly and that the result of the vote would be one that would serve to improve everyone's health, well-being and human rights in Finland, as well as in health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u139	Madam President! There has been a very wide-ranging debate here, and I would like to thank you for the contributions that have been made. In particular, I would now like to raise two thanks here at the end. Firstly, although I am disappointed with this report by the committee, there is, however, one pearl, an important sentence which I would like to highlight: 'The committee considers, as in its opinion on the reform of fundamental rights, that the ethical or religious conviction of the worker should be respected and that work arrangements should primarily be made to ensure proper care by other staff.' I hope that this sentence will be read carefully and that this will also be the case in the workplace. But secondly, I would like to thank Mrs Sari Tanus, who has really fought and worked hard to promote this freedom of conscience in committee, here in Parliament's plenary session, in our own parliamentary group and in many situations here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u142	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u143	Madam President! There is now a Government proposal to the Parliament on energy taxation. The Group of the Christian Democrats believes that we, as a society, could gain significant benefits from the government's proposal by increasing the use of renewable energy. We reduce the need for energy imports, i.e. increasing self-sufficiency, promoting the circular economy, combating climate change and developing new export products. Energy grants support measures to improve the energy economy or to introduce renewable energy in heating. When the decision on emissions trading was taken in 2004, a situation arose in which electricity prices rose and water and nuclear power plants outside the emissions trading sector benefited from unprofitable benefits, because the price system also gives them a higher price for the electricity they produce. The Katainen Government put forward a proposal for a windfall tax, which sought to cut some of this increase in value to the State. However, the proposal of the Katainen Government did not progress as the Commission was not able to complete its assessment of its compatibility with the aid rules. If the Commission's assessment is positive, the windfall tax should be applied. However, the tax model proposed by the Katainen government would have been too focused on old hydroelectric power plants. That is why the emphasis on windfall tax must be shifted to old nuclear power stations. This would raise tax revenues of EUR 50 million. Mr President! A year ago, the committee voted in favour of the proposal to reduce tax subsidies in the mining sector, and there have been no arguments that would give rise to anything other than what the committee said at the time about the attempt to reduce tax subsidies that are harmful to the environment. Mining in Finland has generally been profitable if there have been no fundamental errors. In a weak economic situation, the state needs more tax revenue to avoid having to make painful cuts to people in need of support who are vulnerable. Madam President! In the light of the above, I propose that the explanatory statement in the committee's report be given in paragraphs 1 and 22 to 24. the text of the paragraph shall be amended in accordance with the text of the objection and the adoption of the 1st, 3rd and 4th legislative proposals without amendment and the adoption of the 2nd legislative proposal in accordance with the text of the objection and the adoption of two further statements. The statement reads as follows: "The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken to increase the use of domestic renewable energy and to improve the possibilities for households to make energy renovations so that investments in renewable energy can also be reduced in non-small houses and the income limits of discretionary energy assistance are facilitated." And again: 'The government requires that measures be taken to achieve a windfall tax in accordance with the Government's proposal and the committee's report, but with the change that will shift the focus of the tax to old nuclear power stations.'
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u144	Madam President! I support this amendment tabled by Mr Östman and say that this is one of the important points raised by the Christian Democrats. There are other options for these cuts, and the provision of services can be financed in a more rational way in Finland than is currently the case with the government. And all these other great options can be found in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u145	Madam President! Indeed, we have an objection, which then contains proposals for amendments to the section. They do not need to be formally presented here, but I note that the Left Alliance also finds it wonderful that only when Parliament approved the abolition of the mining tax subsidy at the 2014 Parliament considered it harmful, contrary to environmental objectives, why should it now be returned from the beginning of 2017 and thus substantially lost tax revenue. However, I would like to point out in the parliamentary minutes that we actually have a small so-called misprint demon in this brief objection. In other words, here in the second paragraph it says: 'The abolition of aid will encourage the sector to use energy more effectively'. Of course, this should be "less effective". This is a common objection with the Greens. As far as this protest by the Christian Democrats is concerned, we agree with this mining tax. In fact, I would also like to see the group members comment in their replies — when we had the debate when we considered how we would react to these statements by you — on the phrase 'old nuclear power stations'. And now, as Mr Östman said, this is about shifting the focus from those old hydropower plants to nuclear power stations, so why is this 'old' one here? That's what got me into conversation. Surely this is not intended to send out a message in some way that new nuclear power stations should be in a better position in some way? I would like to see some clarity on this point, even though this share of hydroelectric power plants has already been mentioned. But then, in detail, amendments will be tabled in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u146	Madam President! I too support this excellent proposal by Mr Östman. I would like to say here that there are alternatives to government proposals. This option, which has now been presented and presented by Mr Östman, is part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats. With these measures, we propose that tax revenues of EUR 50 million be collected, which in turn will be able to cover the additional expenditure that we are proposing. At the same time, this proposal, which supports the procurement of renewable energy by households and investments in renewable energy, is also part of a better energy policy. I therefore hope that this will receive support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u147	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u148	Madam President! Let us make a statement here, even on the margins of the assembly, that this does not sound like a Christian Democrats' group meeting. This is therefore an amendment to Article 2 of the Broadcasting Tax Act, and when this government is severely criticised for the drastic nature of the measures and for the severe cuts that discipline people, it must be said that at least something positive can be done in these difficult times. This proposal exempts those currently paying 300000 low-income public service taxes from the Yle-tax, which means that they will no longer have to pay, and thus excludes, among other things, all Finns receiving a guarantee pension or a national pension. In fact, the guarantee pension is also rising at the same time, and that is also a positive thing. When speeches have also been made on income differences and the increase in income differentials, it must be said that this change narrows the overall income gap, which is also positive in this respect. But, above all, the positive thing is that 300,000 low incomes will now be exempt from VAT. They are therefore new low incomes that have so far had to pay, but now, with this government, they will also be released. That threshold will therefore increase for wage and salary earners and pensioners and beneficiaries of benefit income so that 300,000 new low incomes will no longer be subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u149	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Broadcasting Tax Act to increase the minimum amount of a person’s public service tax from EUR 51 to EUR 70. The income threshold from which a person would have to pay a public service tax would increase from the current EUR 8120 per year to EUR 10914, pensioners and benefit recipients from EUR 7500 to EUR 10294. The Committee on Finance is in favour of this government proposal, which would exempt some 300,000 low-income broadcasters from the tax. The committee's report contains an objection from the representatives of the SDP, which states, among other things, that the proposal for the exemption of the lowest incomes is a step in the right direction but is insufficient in terms of progress towards a narrow area of income. I wonder if the representatives of the SDP could not be pleased that a very large number of low-income Finns are thus exempt from the Yle-Tax. With this proposal, the tax would be abolished from 120,000 pensioners. Among other things, everyone who receives a guarantee pension or a national pension would be excluded from the tax. For example, Mr Mattila has said that the Yle-Tax provided for in the last parliamentary term has been criticised for targeting all taxpayers, i.e. the lowest-income taxpayers. Now we can finally put an end to this flaw. Madam President! The background to this proposal is the decision not to revise the indexation of the appropriations underlying the financing of Yleisradio Oy for next year. That is what we have discussed here, and in these discussions I have raised my position. As a member of the parliamentary working group, I have studied the activities of Yleisradio and tried to get to know the different aspects of it. Madam President! The law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of January and will be applied for the first time in the taxation for 2016. This reflects the desire of the government to bring reforms into force as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u150	Mr President! This difficult economic situation in Finland is difficult and, of course, even harder for low incomes, so it is not an easy task for the government to try to find solutions, that there is also something better to tell low incomes. This public service tax is now being abolished from 300,000 low incomes, and it can be considered to be a positive thing. In the future, one might think that this step would be more severe, the more income there is, the more taxes there could be, the higher taxes, a little more costs also the better incomes. But it is important to remember that the government is trying very hard, and it was especially important for the Finns that this matter came true.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u151	Madam President! We have no objection to this, because when you look at this from the point of view of this public service tax alone, of course, such a change, which frees people from low incomes from the tax, is positive from the point of view of income distribution. Then there is the second question of what we should all be concerned about, that the YLE will be able to function in the future and that its funding will be long-term and that it will be able to maintain its independence. It's kind of like the other side of the medal. But in itself, this tax change is in order. And I agree with Mrs Eloma that, in future, this step-up could really take us in the direction that the large-income people would pay more for this YLE service and perhaps the lower the proportion of future payments that will be made by those who will be able to reduce or increase the current limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u152	President! It is truly regrettable that the government has overstepped the agreed parliamentary preparations in deciding on this index freeze and transfer of the public service tax to the framework of the government budget in the context of the Government Programme, even though it was in 2011 that the joint declaration of the parliamentary parties stated: "If there is a need for material changes in the preparation of the solution agreed today, it will also rely on parliamentary support." Now this policy of the government is quite a violation of the principles of this parliamentary procedure and also threatens the independence of the YLE. The amendment made by this bill was made after an index freezing decision linked to the proposal, and the Government’s intention is not to facilitate the position of the lower-income taxable persons but to dismantle the surplus tax revenue generated by the index freezing. Mr Hakkarainen asked whether we Social Democrats are not satisfied that the tax burden on low incomes is reduced. But I could say that this proposal for the release of the low-income is a step in the right direction but is inadequate in terms of progress towards a very narrow income area. In the future, the funding of the public service must be prepared on the basis of the work of the parliamentary working group evaluating the company's public service mission and funding in a way that promotes social justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u153	Mr President! There is every reason to thank the government for this proposal, which I consider to be a good proposal. When the minimum amount of a person’s public service tax is increased from EUR 51 to EUR 70, the person paying the lowest-income public service tax will be exempt from the tax, and that is indeed a positive thing. Then, as far as the functionality of YLE is concerned and this question also concerns the index check and the freezing of it, yes, when the economy is being badly balanced, I think the government's line is correct in that sense that YLE must also be on the same table at that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u154	Mr President! Today, of course, the Social Democrats are trying to do little about their own policy, but I am surprised that this policy is now being done at the expense of the low incomes, because the position of the low incomes is being improved by the government, despite the difficult times. There's been a lot of questions about election promises here, too. I would like to mention that, for example, one election promise of a 1000 euro income tax exemption is very much closer to this calculation of the High Tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u155	Madam President! Mr Eloranta mentioned me here, which is why I took the floor. Now, in this economic situation, where the tax base which carries it is shrinking all the time, there is no way that any index increases can be put in place. These cuts are, as Mrs Räsänen said, also for the YLE — or there are no cuts here. I went to that regional delivery in Central Finland and became familiar with that activity for a whole day. There were no cuts; programme production is the same, but restructuring. They can also be made here on YLE, here at the main station. They have been done front-loaded in such a way that 2017 has been included, as I recall. There's nothing wrong with this. And this government proposal now — parliamentaryly it is the Parliament that decides on this funding as a whole. Parliament always deals with these issues and not just the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u156	Mr President! As I said, the proposal for the exemption of the lowest incomes is a step in the right direction, but it is inadequate because the progress is being made in a very narrow area of income. In the case of the Social Democrats, it is important that the government does indeed return the preparation of the financing of the YLE to parliamentary preparation and decision-making, as has been said in the past. This is a very important principle and the government should prepare a proposal which is therefore parliamentary and which will increase the social justice of the Yle-Tax in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the YLE and its continuity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u157	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 10/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u158	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 10/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u159	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to change the financing of preparatory education so that the teacher can receive half of the State's share of preparatory education for basic education for pupils who have participated in this teaching for 4 to 8 months or for those who have received more than 8 months' education in full. This ensures the resources of municipalities and other education providers to take care of the education of pre-school and primary school-age children living in their region when the student enters the country or the student’s residence in Finland changes during the academic year. At the moment, there is no funding if the student has not been enrolled on the 20th of September, and as you well know, at the moment the situation is quite unusual in these matters. So the need has existed for a long time, but now that this number of asylum seekers has risen unexpectedly, this has considerably increased the need. Although there is no legal obligation to organise preparatory education, it is almost always necessary for an asylum seeker child or young person to have sufficient access to basic education, and the proposal is therefore most welcome. What is important, however, is that monitoring of the effects of the reform and an ongoing assessment of the need for the law be carried out, as this situation of asylum seekers may continue to exist in such a way that, after next year, there will also be a need for this law. So this government proposal is only temporary. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we proposed that funding for preparatory education should be linked more closely to the amount of education that has been provided, so that the minimum amount of education that would qualify for funding could be less than four months. However, what is most regrettable is that this government proposal does not apply to students who have reached the age of compulsory education. According to the expert report we received in committee, this proposal may lead to pupils over 16 years of age being excluded from preparatory education for basic education, and this is a very sad thing. It is absolutely essential that these pupils also be offered access to successful integration, further studies and employment through good basic education in various educational institutions, so that adequate funding is also provided for this. In particular, we have adult upper secondary schools, adult education centres, adult education centres, adult education centres and folk high schools where integration training has been developed for decades and it has been very successful. It is clear that adequate education in Finnish or Swedish is the right of all immigrants and the basis for integration, and we all know that at least the completion of that secondary education is the best guarantee of getting a job later. After all, it has been established that the working life of people who have not completed secondary education is even about ten years shorter than those who have completed it. So education is the key to proper integration and access to employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u160	Madam President! This, too, is a proposal for which we should also thank the Committee on Education and the Government for the swift implementation of this proposal, because we are actually seeing more and more asylum seekers who have to take responsibility for the education of their children and who need to be taken care of. The purpose of this presentation is now to ensure the resources of municipalities and other education providers to ensure that teaching is started when the student enters the country or the student’s place of residence changes in the middle of the academic year. Overall, ensuring the quality of this integration, the integration training to which the previous speaker referred, is very important in these circumstances, as the number of integrations is increasing very strongly. It is important for the sake of social peace and, of course, for these people and families who come here. I also believe that consideration should be given to the fact that the whole package of integration training should be clearly administered by the Ministry of Education and Culture. At the moment, some of it is on the side of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but I believe that it would be possible to strengthen this approach as if it were a civilised policy for the whole package of integration training.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u161	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u162	Mr President! The government must be commended for the fact that, despite the difficult times, it is the poorest who are being cared for and that adequate income support is ensured. Income support is the form of support that ensures that no one gets turned on for lack of money for rent, medicines or health center visits. Contrary to what is often claimed about the opposition, the government wants to take care of the most vulnerable and does not rush to offer a gift such as a corporate tax rebate to the rich, as the previous government did with the blessing of the socialists and the Greens and the Left. We have to ask the opposition what it feels like after that, when the discount fell into dividends. It is strange that the opposition believes that this government is to blame for the huge dividends that will come. Mr President! While the opposition is happy to retain the right to determine who is most vulnerable in Finnish society, surely everyone in the Chamber believes that those who have to live on income support, in one way or another, will have to rely on it. I would also like to hear the thanks of the opposition for the fact that the issue of the poorest is important to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u163	Madam President! The increase in the basic element of income support proposed in this Government proposal will maintain the basic element of income support at the level of 2015 also next year, despite a decrease of 0.4% in the national pension index. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcome this proposal from the point of view of the most vulnerable in the economy. Income support is a last-place financial support under social welfare, designed to ensure at least the necessary income for the decent life of the person and the family and to promote self-sustaining. Income support is intended to be short-term aid, which would quickly restore the customer to primary security or income, but, as we know, it has become long-term support for many people and families, largely due to insufficient primary benefits. Madam President! The number of customers of income support is expected to increase next year as the level of primary benefits falls due to the negative national pension index, but this much more significant increase in the number of customers will increase the transfer of income support to Kela from the beginning of 2017. As a result of the transfer, the under-utilisation of aid is expected to decrease considerably and to cover some 28000 new households. In this connection, the committee also stressed that the transfer of tasks related to the granting of income support to Kela must not mean that there is a congestion of applications for income support and therefore a deterioration in the entitlement to support as a result of delays. When the transfer must ensure that the payment of income support continues seamlessly, the Social Insurance Institution must have a sufficient number of staff to advise, direct and process customers. Madam President! According to Prime Minister Sipilä's Government's programme, a basic income experiment will be carried out during the current Government term. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also states in this report that it is possible to gain experience of combining primary and last-minute social security and the effectiveness of uniform security and its incentive to take up work. Finally, Madam President, I am pleased that this is a report on which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u164	Mr President! When Mr Mäkelä — whether or not Mäkelä — there was a bit of a challenge to the opposition, that now there has been a really big reform and that now turns this unjust line of government almost the opposite, it must be said that it does not. If there is now agreement on this and a very small spoon is given, and at the same time a shovel is taken in many ways, then it will not change the basic government line for the less well-off and low-income sections of the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u165	Mr President! This proposal is indeed unanimous, and there is absolutely nothing to blame for, but of course it is not the subject of any major celebration. One key point that has also been made in the report is that income support has in practice become long-term support for a number of people and families, largely due to the inadequacy of these priority benefits. This is the great concern we have and, of course, the difficult unemployment situation which is driving people into income support. Now that the granting of income support is moving into Kela's care, this will add to nearly 30,000 new households, which of course belongs to them. But there is a great need for and a great need for renovation in order to get rid of this cycle, in practice from one year to the next, to live on the basis of income support. Unfortunately, basic income testing alone is not enough; it would require more refurbishment. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament is preparing its own basic security model, which is aimed specifically at such an encouraging basic security, and I hope that the government will listen with a sensitive ear to what the Christian Democrats are saying.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u166	Madam President! As such, a Kela transfer with regard to income support is certainly a good thing. Kela has experience in managing such benefits and benefits, and Kela has, overall, undergone a major internal reform in recent years. As Kela's delegate, I have seen that, overall, things are going well there, and they will certainly get through this, provided that they have sufficient financial and human resources to provide this income support, just in view of the estimate that 28,000 new households will come to claim this Kela transfer then the income support that they really deserve. But all in all, our social security needs renovation, and I am sure we all agree on that in this Chamber. Nor has the SATA Committee been of the least opinion in the past, which has advocated in many ways that we should go and export social security to the new century. Unfortunately, however, we have not achieved such a consensus in our society so that those reforms can come to fruition, but if we could make some progress during this term of government. All in all, I do not believe that the experiment itself gives us an unambiguous answer as to how Finnish social security is going to become clearer and from now on, but it is a good experiment to do. I am glad that this government, on the whole, is courageous for new experiments. It is only through experiments that we can see, in this case too, whether it is appropriate to what extent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u167	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u168	Mr President! Transit traffic, i.e. transit through the country of goods and raw materials, currently brings more than EUR 200 million and 1000 direct jobs to our economy. The revenue generated by transit traffic is approximately EUR 100 million. Transit income is based on the ability to exploit the location and know-how of the country. The regional economic and employment impact is very significant. For example, more than one third of the traffic in the ports of Kotka and Kokkola is transit traffic. The loss of transit revenues due to the distortive effect of fairway charges is currently a threat. The number of transit traffic through Finland has fallen sharply in six years. In terms of tonnes, we are talking about a decrease of about 20%. Until 2014, about EUR 80 million has been collected annually. Transport accounts for between 6 % and 7 % of this sum, i.e. between EUR 5 and 6 million. Without the burden of bus charges, the volume of transit traffic through Finland could increase considerably, as competition between ports in the Baltic Sea is accelerating. Currently transit traffic through Finnish ports is between EUR 3 and EUR 6 per tonne more expensive than other ports in the Baltic Sea. For example, the port of Hamina-Kotka will disappear to the port of St.Petersburg for EUR 5.6 per tonne. In the case of large volumes of transport, this difference in costs and competitiveness between ports can be considered significant. Due to our fairway charges, it is cheaper for a foreign operator to direct transit traffic to ports in the Baltic States and Russia that do not charge the fairway fee and whose share in transit traffic increases even if the best logistical expertise is found in Finnish ports in the Baltic Sea region. On the other hand, an increase of just under a tenth in transit traffic would be sufficient to cover the transport charges currently collected by the state from transit traffic. A doubling of traffic would be sufficient as an increased tax revenue to cover all bus maintenance and icebreaking costs. The fairway charges have been halved for the years 2015 to 2017. Despite this, there is still a negative competitive advantage for Finnish ports, and despite the reduction in charges, transit traffic is still in danger of being reduced. The total abolition of fairway charges should therefore be taken into consideration, since the effect of their abolition could lead to higher tax revenues than the current transportway charges to the state treasury. The possible abolition of the fairway charge should take into account funding for bus maintenance and icebreaking in the Ministry of Transport and Communications budget. Finnish ports will have the opportunity to compete in the Baltic Sea region for a much larger revenue stream if transit traffic is limited by the removal of bus charges. In Latvia, for example, transit transport accounts for up to 14% of GDP, i.e. EUR 3.7 billion. In the Baltic countries competing with Finland and Russia, transit traffic has been given a strategic and central role. However, no such policy has been adopted in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u169	The debate will continue. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u170	Madam President! It is particularly important that this issue is already raised in a kind of legislative initiative similar to that already discussed last week. This debate should now be conducted in such a way that, in the view of the Finnish Transport Agency, we, in the sense of the Finnish shipping industry, might perhaps begin to reflect on the issue of shipping in the light of the principle of fairness and its export-driven nature, in terms of ports and the export industry. For example, we in Satakunta have ports in such a position that our own traffic there and companies are, in a way, paying for these bus fares. This means that when big ships enter the port they always pay a full fairway fee, because there is no freeway charge for freight traffic until ten times after. Today, hundreds of ports are paying 1.72 times for the government services they have received, which means that we are paying for the costs of many other small ports in very ice-free port areas, and that is a bad choice. We must develop rail transport in such a way that, in those ports where ice conditions are good, we will continue to support this activity in the export industry in a more efficient way. In that sense, I am delighted by this initiative that this will once again raise the issue of how we support the export industry in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u171	Madam President! After all, our ports have to contend with a very tough competitive situation in the Baltic Sea. There are many reasons why transit traffic has fallen sharply. For example, there is a reason why new ports have been built in Russia and Russia has moved traffic to its own ports. Everyone remembers the time when we horrified truck queues in that traffic, truck queues on the Russian border, and truck queues on that road. Then we have horrified it when there are no such things and there will be no such income. The economic situation in Russia is, of course, one of the main reasons for the decline in transit traffic of this type. But as Mrs Myllykoski said, it is also a question of the structure of fairway charges and how they treat different types of ships. And it is precisely these transit transports of raw materials to the ports of the Gulf of Bothnia, which are delivered by ships and which are relatively large but are very rarely visited by these ports, that current system does not necessarily treat them fairly. This really is a place for reflection in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u172	Madam President! To continue with what Mr Uotila said, we must now be able to look at this structure. I repeat that it is a good thing that Mrs Eloranta has taken such an initiative, which will make us discuss it here. Unfortunately, the Chamber is quite empty, but it is hoped that this debatation will then continue in such a way that the government will take into account what is at present the most important, now the key to the export industry. This means that we must be able to continue with the line opened up by Minister Kyllönen in such a way as to create conditions for industry, particularly for the export industry. But I still stress that these fairway charges should be made according to the report of the Finnish Transport Agency, so that these large freighters will come under its rebate more quickly. It is inconceivable that Norilsk Nickel and Boliden, who import concentrates from Australia and Chile, always pay 100 % of its fairway fee, while, for the tenth time since then, shipping will be exempt from this fairway charge and passenger transport 30 times after they visit the port. It is unreasonable that this is the most important and biggest leader in our export industry — as one hundred people say, metallurgy — at the heart of it, because it is almost all of our export industry, but it comes from abroad. Less comes along the railways in this country to the industrial plants there this product, and in that sense the government must now be shaken. And it is hoped that Mr Eloranna's initiative will:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u173	Mr President! It is indeed true, as has been mentioned here, that Russia has this new fine port, but we could very well compete with it, because Finnish logistics expertise is trusted and we are a reliable partner here. But indeed, as I said, through our ports that transito is more expensive than in these other ports, and that is why we are really losing this competitive advantage. This is particularly regrettable when the Baltic countries and Russia have understood to take this transit traffic to a strategic and central role — why we have not understood this in Finland. I wish the government would think about this. Let me remind you that, in Latvia, transito actually accounts for up to 14% of GDP. What could this mean for Finland? That's a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u174	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u175	Mr President! A comprehensive reform of electronic communications regulation has been carried out in the information society cycle adopted by the Parliament over the last period. With wireless technology for electronic communications, smartphones, tablet computers and many other wireless applications have become part of everyday life as well as mobile phones and radio towers. At the same time, radio frequency electromagnetic radiation is increasing around us all the time. However, the potential risks involved have not been adequately assessed. Wireless communication has also increased the need to build base stations and radio towers. However, this has not been sufficiently taken into account in the planning process, and there are no clear rules for the positioning of base stations and radio masts, including in the new information society cycle. The use of a mobile phone can be influenced by the individual, at least to a certain extent. However, radiation from base stations and radio masts is not controlled by the individual. There are therefore legal problems which should be better taken into account in legislation. Although the radiation from base stations is lower than that from mobile phones, it is chronically more or less exposed depending on, for example, its place of residence. The radiation from the base station is not evenly distributed in our environment, but there are large differences in exposure levels, for example between different dwellings or jobs, depending on how close they are to them. Radio frequency radiation is not risk-free for humans and the environment, but according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) classification radio frequency radiation is a potential carcinogen, i.e. potentially carcinogenic. The classification applies to all wireless equipment systems. A number of peer-reviewed studies have been published since 2011 to suggest that many of the experts in this evaluation panel would be in favour of a stricter category: likely to be carcinogenic to humans or carcinogenic to humans. In 2011, the Council of Europe recommended that its Member States take all possible measures, in particular to protect children and young people from radiation from mobile phones, as these groups are at an increased risk of developing head tumors. The Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency has also recommended restricting the use of children's mobile phones, but it does not suggest that there is a risk of base stations, contrary to what the European Parliament said in its resolution of 2009 and even though the WHO classification mentioned just now mentions this potential carcinogenic potential. According to some estimates, the radiation safety centre’s view that exposure to a human being is so low that it cannot be harmful and that no specific measures are needed is based on the heat effect properties of non-ionising radiation that lags behind time. This ICNIRP standard, which Finland adheres to, takes into account only a short-term thermal effect but not biological effects, although there are a large number of scientific publications. On the basis of the survey evidence, legislation has been tightened up in many countries and transparency of decision-making has been increased. We already have a lot of research that shows that radio-frequency electromagnetic radiation is dangerous to health. The Bioinitiative 2012 expert group has studied 1800 studies on electromagnetic fields and their health effects and notes that evidence of health risks in mobile network base stations and radio masts has increased significantly since 2007. Research evidence was found, for example, on exposure to a malignant brain tumour caused by long-term use of a mobile phone. According to the report, children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable to risks. For example, the field measurements of radio frequency radiation carried out by the Turku University of Applied Sciences’ radio and EMC laboratory have shown that living or working in the main beam of the mobile network radio mast or base station results in an increase in unnecessary exposure to radio frequency radiation. No adverse health effects have been observed in all studies and therefore the scientific community is currently arguing about health effects. Thus, according to current data, a minimum 2B-class carcinogen has been released into our living environment without having had enough public debate. This has also not been sufficiently taken into account from the point of view of the precautionary principle when regulating the information society cycle. Mr President! The precautionary principle is a generally recognised principle of law in potentially health-risk activities and should be respected at a time when the scientific community is not unanimous on the magnitude of the risk. The precautionary principle is also referred to in European Union law. This means that environmental protection measures can be taken even though there is no full scientific certainty about environmental damage. The precautionary principle aims to provide proactive management of situations with uncertainty and lack of information and where non-regulation can lead to high costs. The precautionary principle and the so-called optimization principle in accordance with Article 2 of the Radiation Act, i.e. that radiation exposure harmful to health is considered to be as low as practicable, has been accepted as an official part of the management of our radiation risks. The Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority has stated that the precautionary principle is appropriate where scientific grounds allow for the assumption that there is a risk and could have serious and lasting consequences for nature or human health and well-being. The basic objective should be to prevent risk before harm occurs. The right to a healthy environment guaranteed by our Constitution also requires that decisions are taken in uncertain situations with an emphasis on the environment. The principle of caution in relation to support stations and the positioning of radio masts should therefore be better taken into account in the legal framework of the information society. Mr President! Article 229(1) of the Information Society Code provides for the right of a telecommunications undertaking to invest in an area owned or controlled by another to serve public telecommunications connections, a mobile network base station or a radio tower. In the absence of an agreement with the owner of the property or building, paragraph 4 provides that the location of the equipment is to be decided by the municipal building control authority. However, the placing of telecommunications cables in an area owned or controlled by another cannot be directly assimilated to the construction of a mobile network base station or a radio mast, since the disadvantage caused by telecommunications cables is different from what might result from the installation of a base station or a radio mast. Telecommunications cable does not produce radio-frequency electromagnetic radiation that would spread widely to property or building, exposing residents to electromagnetic fields, while a base station or a radio tower produces it. It is therefore important that the placement of radio masts and base stations be made in accordance with Article 230 of this Act, in all cases and not only when the parties are unable to reach an agreement on their placement, as provided for in the Information Society Archipelago. This amendment also proposes that the deployment plan should include an assessment of the radiation intensity of base stations and radio masts for areas located in their immediate vicinity or in the main beam of antennas. This will enable those living in these areas or staying regularly for other reasons to assess their impact. Pursuant to Article 231 of the Information Society Code, a telecommunications undertaking is to provide the investment plan for information to all owners of the property and building and to others whose interests or rights are covered by the plan. This proposed amendment proposes that the investment plan should be communicated to all owners of the property and building; to those who reside or regularly reside in them or in the area of the main prohibition on irradiation of transmitters and to others whose interests or rights are covered by the plan. This will enable all those whose interests or rights are at stake, including those living in or regularly staying in these areas, to influence the location and information of radio masts and base stations located in their environment and to make a reminder of the investment plan. Mr President! In 2009, the European Parliament adopted a resolution in which it stated that, when installing mobile telephone antennas, particular care should be taken to ensure that special sensitive items such as schools, day-care centres, nursing homes and health care facilities are not unnecessarily close to mobile base stations in order to limit exposure to electromagnetic fields. There are many contributions in support of this precautionary principle. Sir William Stewart, a British radiation authority, has already instructed in his report back in 2000, that the poles of masts should not be aimed at places where children are present. The direction of base stations and radio towers will thus have an impact, i.e. they should not be directed towards homes or schools, for example. The views of the Council of Europe and the European Environment Agency are similar. The optimal situation would be to define a precise protection distance which should be a distance sufficient to significantly reduce the effectiveness of the transmission from the mobile network base station or the radio mast. For example, the recommended distance could be 300 meters. On the other hand, at the foot of a high mast, there may be a blind spot where the radiation is not very high. Ideally, the positioning of transmitters should be based on measurements rather than metrics. Telecommunications operators can also increase the power of transmitters, thus changing the impact of a certain distance. Although the Parliamentary Committee on Transport and Communications proposed in 2014 that masts should not be placed near sensitive sites such as kindergartens, this has not been taken into account in legislation or in the new installation guidelines directed to the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency operators. The provisions of the European Parliament resolution proposed in this legislative proposal should therefore be included in the information society cycle so that mobile telephone stations or radio towers are not placed unnecessarily close to specific areas, such as schools, day-care centres, nursing homes and health care facilities. Article 234 of the Information Society Code to regulate the flow of tele-cable base stations I therefore propose, with reference to the above-mentioned European Parliament resolution, that base stations and radio masts should be placed primarily in public areas in such a way as to minimise radiation exposure to humans and not be placed in or near residential or special sensitive areas such as schools, day-care centres, old-age homes or hospitals. Furthermore, base stations and radio towers should not be directed towards these buildings. These additions should also be taken into account when regulating the modification or withdrawal of the right to invest. Mr President! I would have liked to have mentioned this question of location information. Is there a chance to go on? The European Parliament has addressed the question of location of base stations and masts in 2009 and has decided that the public should be informed of the location of radio stations and masts using radio frequencies by freely publishing spatial data on the Internet site. For this reason, the provision on the public access to base stations and radio tower location information should also be added to the information society cycle so that the public can find out where they are located, for example when choosing their place of residence. This location information is publicly available on the Internet, for example in Åland, France and Germany. The principle of equality in EU law prohibits the unequal treatment of citizens of the Union, so also in Finland there should be an open and comprehensive register of spatial data. Nor is there any justification for concealing location data under the Publicity Act, which provides for the confidentiality of documents relating to the preparation of exceptional circumstances. The mobile network cannot be knocked down by destroying individual base stations. Telecommunications operators argue that the location of base stations is classified because they are covered by commercial secrecy. However, the current situation is that the location data of an individual base station or radio mast are public information that can be consulted by municipal building permit offices. According to the commentary of the Publicity Act, general knowledge of the company or its business, or information which can be obtained from public sources, and the information to be produced by combining them is also public domain information. Therefore, the location data of base stations and radio masts are not covered by commercial secrecy and are not confidential data within the meaning of the Publicity Act. Mr President! Radio waves are national property, so that's why.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u176	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u177	Madam President! We are currently in the process of reforming the Animal Protection Act, which has been aimed at the animal's absolute dignity, well-being and respect. The work was started during the last government term, and the work had to be completed by 31 December 2014. To this end, a steering group had been set up. This term of office has been extended and it has now been promised that this work will be completed during this term of government. This is a very wide-ranging preparation, and this preparation is accompanied by a total ban and criminalisation on the involvement of animals. At the moment, criminal responsibility requires that the animal suffers suffering, pain or pain. Of course, the problem has been that it is often impossible to prove the definition of suffering, pain and pain. After all, the prosecution has a burden of proof in the Court of Justice, which means that he must demonstrate all the elements of the code. Often there is no trace. That steering group, which has been appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, has at least publicly suggested that it would be doing a total ban on animal sex as a mere act. There has been a lot of debate during this summer and in the spring, and this has also been a public matter, and only Finland, Hungary and Romania from the EU countries are countries that allow animals to become involved as a mere act, so that it has not been criminalised as a mere act. A similar initiative on the criminalisation of animal sex has also been taken in August 2015, and can be found on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Minna Ruotsalo, Senior Inspector at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, has also said that it is now known that animal sex is more than commonly thought of. It's a taboo, and they don't want to talk about it. That is why I have taken the following legislative initiative in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code to remedy this. First of all, I will read the reasons for this: In Finland, interference with animals is punishable if the act fulfils the characteristics of the animal welfare offence described in the Animal Welfare Act or of the minor animal welfare offence or serious animal welfare offence described in the Criminal Code. The starting point here is that the action must have been cruel or cause unnecessary suffering, pain or pain to the animal. It has therefore not been criminalised on the mere level of action, but those conditions must be met. If the act does not comply with those conditions, it will be completely unpunished. So it's allowed. Interference with an animal is traditionally a relationship comparable to sexual intercourse between a person and an animal — this is from the government’s proposal No. 6 for 1997. Today, then, the central problem of criminalisation is how to show this suffering, pain and pain. I don't think we can interview this animal. I think that's quite impossible. This is particularly true in cases where there is no trace of the animal which the authorities could draw conclusions from. So there will be no criminal liability. However, the fact that the injury cannot be demonstrated under these conditions does not mean that the injury has not occurred. Furthermore, the current criminalisation of criminal law is not in line. Article 18 of Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code criminalises the dissemination of an image that violates sexual orientation and includes cases where images or image recordings are distributed, in which sexual orientation is either factually or realistically portrayed as interfering with an animal. Dissemination of the image of the animal is criminalized, but the actual act, that is, the act of interfering with the animal itself, is not. The involvement of an animal is only criminalised if it causes suffering and pain. All other forms of pornography, the dissemination of which is governed by Chapter 17, Section 18 of the Penal Code prohibit, are prohibited as mere acts. There's a contradiction. In other words, spreading an image of animal involvement as it stands has been perceived as a danger to public order and morals, but thus no real involvement in animals. This contradiction should definitely be removed from the law. The total ban on involvement in animals is based on the fact that the current legislation, which has not criminalised it, does not reflect the moral and legal sense of the people. It does not treat animals as individuals, although the act may be very harmful to animals. That reform, which I mentioned earlier, is precisely the starting point for the animal's absolute dignity, well-being and respect. In recent years, for example, Norway, Denmark and Sweden have also criminalised animal involvement as a mere act. I would like to say at this stage that, of course, this law and criminality would not in any way apply, for example, to aid in the breeding of the animal or to other normal treatment measures. That is why I said this in my bill, because I have also asked the Ministry about this. In response to a written question from the Ministry, I was told that this issue should also be considered. That is why I said that this does not mean, of course. Animals may be treated as normal and assisted in mating. It's perfectly normal. It has nothing to do with sex. Even if some of these acts could be harmless, it cannot be built on the mere fact that the act in question is harmful to its object. Rather than committing an act, it is more important to pay attention to whether criminalising or not is harmful. Placing suffering, pain and pain as a condition of punishment can result in an attempt to do so in the hope that the animal will not experience that pain. The number of acts, in turn, is directly reflected in the suffering suffered by animals. Furthermore, a total ban on interference with animals cannot be avoided because such activities may be harmful to the animal in any particular case. I believe that this is an act which is, as a rule, harmful to the animal and causing pain. It also violates the rights and welfare of animals. All animal welfare offences have been criminalized in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. The involvement of animals could be punished as a matter of urgency by a separate amendment to the penal code and without waiting for this overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, which seems to be going on for years and years. A penalty scale for interfering with an animal would be justified, i.e. a penalty or imprisonment of up to two years. The purpose of the criminalisation is not only to protect animals, but also to provide the legislator with the message that sexual interference with animals cannot be considered acceptable. Therefore, in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code, I have proposed a new Article 14b, which would be worded as 'interference with animals', and the description of the act is as follows: 'Any person having sexual relations with an animal or having comparable sexual relations with an animal must be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years.' In Sweden, this has been criminalized in 2014, and it has precisely this penalty scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u178	Madam President! In recent years, Norway, Denmark and Sweden have criminalised the involvement of animals as an act. Finland is a country of equal value with the countries mentioned above, so that is why we must also be part of the same group. We are also a civilised country whose task is to respect every animal. The starting point should be animal welfare, respect and the absolute value of the animal. At the moment, the central problem of the criminalisation of animal involvement has been, as Mr Merik said in his opening speech, that it has been difficult to define the suffering, pain and pain of the animal and to prove them in the police investigation and in many cases even more difficult for the prosecution. Therefore, criminal liability will not arise unless the pre-trial investigation shows that the animal has really experienced suffering, pain or pain. I do not think that any attention should be paid to the above issues. The act of having sexual relations with an animal or having comparable sexual relations with an animal is simply to be condemned in a civilised state such as Finland. In my previous job, I have been given alarms in the barns, where the tie has been fully operational on the stool behind the heifer or sheep. Ladies and gentlemen, it may not have been a beautiful sight. However, under current legislation, this is only a violation of domestic peace and an act of punishment. However, it is the heifer or sheep whose welfare, respect and dignity have been violated that suffers the most. We civilized people must also respect animal rights. On the other hand, even a pedophile does not realize that he is doing anything to a child, because he thinks he is only a philanthropist. Is such a zoophile a philanthropist? If not, this bill should be adopted. Mr President! I consider the bill to be very important and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u179	Mr President! Very rarely are we talking about animals, animal welfare, here in the Chamber. I think there was one or two times last season, and in this period I would remember one question from the oral Question Time on animals. Of course we have a challenging place today and the big questions we have to deal with, but animals should not be forgotten, and sometimes it is time to talk about animal welfare too. As Mr Meri has said here, the Animal Protection Act is being reformed — it should be renewed during this reign. The old one's 20 years ago. The steering team is working very hard. It is therefore important that it becomes a better law than the previous one, that is, for animal welfare. We have farm animals, we have natural animals, we have pets, we have dogs in some 650,000 Finnish countries. If we think of animal - protection crimes, they are also gross and the sanctions are very small. The category that could give even more severe punishment exists, and it has now been added and made more punishable, but this is not being used. It is very rare to even become conditional, no matter how serious an animal-protection crime is. I think it's been absolute since 2012. We should pay very much attention to this. The bill of law on the amendment of Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code deals with animal involvement as an act. The Criminal Code does not explicitly condemn animal interference in cases where the animal has not suffered unnecessary suffering, pain or pain. However, any interference with animals is morally wrong and incompatible with other provisions of criminal law. The objective of the bill is clearly to criminalise this activity. Mr President! In Finland, interference with animals is punishable if the act fulfils the characteristics of the animal welfare offence described in the Animal Welfare Act or of the minor animal welfare offence or serious animal welfare offence described in the Criminal Code. As far as criminal law is concerned, the starting point is that the action must have been cruel or causing unnecessary suffering, pain or pain to the animal. In other words, the involvement of animals has not been criminalised at the level of an act alone, but only under the conditions mentioned. If the act does not satisfy the description of any of the offences mentioned above, the involvement of animals is not punishable by law. The problem with current legislation lies in the fact that it is difficult to define suffering, pain and pain and that it is often even more challenging to prove them. There may be no trace of the animal from which the authorities can draw conclusions. This often means that criminal liability does not arise. Furthermore, the current state of play in the criminalisation of animal involvement is not in line with other provisions of criminal law. All types of pornography, the dissemination of which is Chapter 17, Section 18 of the Penal Code prohibit, are also prohibited as mere acts. It's not one of these animals to mess with. Thus, the dissemination of the picture is seen as a danger to public order and morals, but not to the actual involvement of animals. There's a big contradiction here. This conflict should be removed as soon as possible from the law. In Norway, Denmark and Sweden, animal involvement has already been criminalised. The criminalisation proposed in the draft law is limited to harming the animal and, of course, not to assisting in the breeding of the animal or other normal treatment measures. A total ban on interference with animals should not be omitted because, in some individual cases, the activity may be harmless to the target animal. This is an act which is, as a rule, harmful to the animal and causing pain. It is a clear violation of animal rights and welfare. Furthermore, criminalisation would serve as a message from the legislator that sexual interference with an animal cannot be considered acceptable. On the basis of the above, Mr Meri has taken a legislative initiative, which I warmly support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u180	Mr President! What do Finland, Hungary and Romania have in common? They are the only countries in which animal involvement is not prohibited by law. We should take animal rights seriously. This is also very timely, as the Finnish Animal Protection Act is currently being reformed. An animal is not just an object. The purpose of the criminalisation, in addition to the protection of animals, is the legislator's message that sexual interference in an animal cannot be considered acceptable. I think the bill's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u181	Mr President! There are a few more things I'd like to add. I have been in contact with this kind of Animal Friends Forum in Finland, have been in contact with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and from this you can see that they obviously do not understand that this is not the same as a sexual act between people. They call themselves zoophilics, and they — I have received a big memo like this — tell us that this is sexual orientation and that in Sweden this has been studied and at least about 1% of people have a zoological relationship with the animal. I calculated that it would be about 50,000 people in Finland, but of course it cannot be, because we do not all have adults. They themselves would think there are about 95,000 of them in Sweden. This group is some kind of group that does not want to make its names known to me, one of its own names, but I am not allowed to publish it or publish it in any context. They justify and say that they only have sex mainly with their own animal and do not want to cause harm to the animal, and that the animals would be able to express their opinion in body language, that they can defend themselves by kicking their teeth or hooves, and the animal can take the initiative of sexual intercourse with them. However, the animal is subordinate to man, that is quite clear. Yes, we have to give this kind of message in society that the criminal law's task is to declare that some act is not acceptable. One person told me that it might not eliminate that phenomenon. Well, certainly not, we have not all the other crimes removed by criminal law, such as drunken driving or pedophilia, but would we remove them from criminal law for this, I don't think.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u182	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u183	Mr President! It is quite unreasonable that the government is implementing a negative index change next year, which is why the index revision will reduce expenditure under the National Pensions Act and the Health Insurance Act: front allowance, rotation allowance, adult education allowance, housing allowance, labour market support, earnings and basic daily allowance and maintenance allowance. In addition, the Government intends to freeze the national pension and consumer price index adjustments for 2017 and 2019 and to leave the benefits at this lower level. According to the forecast, the level of benefits will fall by 4.7 per cent over this period compared to the fact that index changes would be carried out. Of course, this increases income support customers, weakens purchasing power and directly affects domestic consumer demand. At the same time, the government raises customer fees, cuts pharmaceutical and travel allowances, reduces the quality of services and makes a significant deterioration in the support for the pensioner’s housing, or housing allowance in general. I think it is a bit like an unwritten rule that no negative revisions of benefits linked to the national pension and consumer price index are being carried out. The level of benefits should remain unchanged. I therefore warmly support Mr Haatainen's initiative for this temporary legislation, which would not allow benefits linked to the Kela and Consumer Price Index to fall in line with the indices next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u184	Madam President! The momentary speech described exactly the situation that should be taken into account, and in that respect I am also behind and warmly support Mrs Haatainen's initiative. I hope that this debate will continue to take place in a serious way, because these issues, which Mrs Eloranta has raised here, are very important, essential to the way in which our cuts to these groups will lead to poverty and inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u185	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u186	Madam President! A wake-up call for this bill was the attempt to break the legal strike of Posti’s employees by using temporary workers. It is a good thing that an agreement was reached, but it did not remove the need for a change in the law, which is the aim of this initiative by the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. Efforts have been made to break the right to strike for workers in a number of ways, such as the use of temporary labour or scabbard have a long tradition. During the negotiations on the postal contracts, one step further went when the employer announced that he would replace workers on strike with temporary workers. Under pressure, Posti reassured the situation by promising not to use SOL’s temporary workers. However, employees of other temporary agency companies were recruited during the strike period in Varsinais-Suomi, for example. In other words, the state company prepared itself on a large scale to break the legal strike and also carried out its intentions at least at some locations. Mr Sipilä, the Minister for Ownership Guidance, seemed to have no objection to this. Mr President! This initiative proposes to add to Chapter 2 of the Employment Contracts Act a provision that temporary agency workers should not replace workers whose work is covered by an industrial action. The right to strike is a fundamental right of workers protected by several international agreements. The Finnish Constitution also safeguards the right of association under Article 13 of the Labour Code. Article 28 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also establishes the right to collective action. Our current legislation, which allows temporary agency workers to work under strike, undermines this fundamental right. Employers feel that workers are on strike, not their jobs. Such an interpretation can be used to alert those who are on strike from a temporary agency. At the same time, we underline what the employer side thinks about the right to strike, i.e. the fundamental right of workers. Professor Emeritus of Labour Law Kari-Pekka Tiitinen has said that the use of temporary agency workers during strike is a moral problem. This is easy to agree with, and since morality seems to be a stretch on the employer side, it is time to legislate on it. In France, Belgium and Poland, the use of temporary agency work in a company is prohibited by law in the case of work under strike. Mr President! Recently, as part of the trade union movement’s blackmail campaign, the number of strikes in Finland has been horrified again. In reality, the number of strikes in Finland has collapsed compared to the past decades. Of the peak years, the number of industrial battles has fallen by 90 per cent. Indeed, in the past decades there were many more strikes and, among other things, there is a further updating of the strike shutdown in shipyards in the 1980s. As I myself have been involved in these developments and also in police interrogations, I would like to remind you of a few things: Of course, there were wage disputes and social pressure involved in strikes, but often others. We had to strike to get the tools for gripping hot steel, the safety shoes to protect our feet, or the thermal jumpsuits so that we could work at minus 15 degrees below zero and in a moustache on the side of the ship. Today, the exits are often related to redundancies, and industrial battles have turned mainly into short mourning strikes for workers to be disappointed. Local disputes are increasingly resolved at the negotiating table, and peace of work has been exceptionally good in recent years. This is confirmed by the Finnish Confederation of Finnish Industries' working time reviews and industrial battle statistics. In 2012, 0.0 per cent of the absenteeism of employees and employees in manufacturing, service and construction was due to industrial battles. The amount of working time lost as a result of a labour dispute is therefore so small that it is rounded to zero. In industry, the loss of working time was one hour per employee in 2012. On average, much greater loss of working time for industrial workers came from layoffs and accidents at work. 19 hours were lost due to layoffs and 5 hours lost due to accidents at work. The corresponding figures for construction workers were 112 hours due to layoffs and 7 hours due to accidents at work. In the last few days, our number of strikes has been compared with that of Sweden. We must also compare our cultures of contract and influence. Sweden has a co-determination law, staff representatives on company boards and more of us have genuine local agreement. I've always said the best strike is a strike you don't have to start. When you strike, you lose half and half. That is why we need to improve the culture of the agreement at all levels, not through the coercive policy of the Sipilä Government. So strike is not a problem in Finland, the problem is the immorality of some employers. The government does not want to safeguard the fundamental rights of workers, but appears to aim at breaking the position of the Finnish trade union movement, i.e. organised workers protected by the right to organise the Constitution, piece by piece. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance does not accept the violation of the fundamental rights of Finnish workers. We therefore propose, with this bill, that a provision be added to the Employment Contracts Act that temporary workers should not replace workers whose work is subject to collective action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u187	Madam President! Representative Uotila, in terms of her own experience base, described this situation and clearly pointed out the figures that what is meant today by the word strike. There are a great deal of protests about the disappointing feeling of dismissals or staff who feel that the company's management is operating badly and that there is a bad staff policy. That is why the amendment of Chapter 2 of the Employment Contracts Act, which is the proposal of the Left Alliance to amend this Labour Contracts Act, is justified at this moment. The unfortunate event that triggered this bill was the industrial battle situation of the State-owned Post and the fact that Prime Minister Sipilä, the Minister for State Ownership Control, stood by and gave advice from this ministerial box: negotiate, negotiate and negotiate. However, it is good that Posti’s industrial battle situation erupted into the reconciliation performance of the national mediator and restored the normal situation so that Santa can get his present through the Post this Christmas too. The status of temporary agency workers is subordinate and very difficult. I would not use the word that temporary agency workers are scabbard, but, because of their own employment, they must accept the work that is being offered, and in that sense this is a very welcome legislation. It is really sad that in Finland a parliamentary group is forced to take such an initiative, which guarantees the right to strike. This is an amazing and sad situation, but that is what needs to be done now, and in that sense this bill is justified. I do not agree with all of his statements, which must be said here. If you oppress an entire group of employees in an employment relationship, Tiitinen says that it is not work discrimination. For example, when Polish electricians at a workplace were underpaid, according to this professor it was not in any way reprehensible, and so the prosecutor made a decision not to prosecute. But here we have to quote what Mr Uotila has said before. I would like to comment on the fact that this is extremely problematic and morally questionable. It is very important that the negotiations in working life can move forward, and it is clear that, in many respects, we would need more co-determination in Sweden or how Germany is agreed, so to speak, local agreement. In this debate, too, it should be pointed out that local agreement in these so-called control countries of ours is quite different from what the government is proposing here, local agreement at the workplace level, where there is still a lack of respect for the general binding collective agreement on the part of the liquidator, which must be the starting point for this Western culture to safeguard the status of workers, and not so that it is possible to force the agreement, because it is quite clear that there will be a collision course at some point, and then there will be the worst of all - the worst of all - an illegal industrial battle situation. That is why I am absolutely in favour of this amendment to Chapter 2 of the Employment Contracts Act, which prohibits the use of temporary agency work in laconese jobs, being implemented, and I hope that this law will be enacted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u188	Mr President! As Mr Uotila says in his initiative, the use of temporary agency work in companies in the European Union is prohibited in the case of workers' lacuna work in France, Belgium and Poland and the French law prohibits the use of temporary agency work to replace an employee whose employment relationship is interrupted by an industrial struggle. I believe that we, as a European state, should join in this same line, because allowing the use of temporary agency work in Laconese jobs undermines the right to collective action guaranteed by international treaties and the Finnish Constitution. I therefore warmly support Mr Uotila's initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u189	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. The 17th item on the agenda is also allowed to be discussed on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u190	Mr President! In the context of the reform of the Freedom of Religion Act, which entered into force in 2003, students’ professed religious education was transferred to the teaching of their own religion. The reform did not change the content of religious education. In our religious education, the content is still too much on the basis of the basics of our own religion. According to the amendment of the Basic Education Act of 2003, the organiser of basic education must organise religious education according to the religion of the majority of pupils. The study of life views is possible only for non-religious students and for those of minority religions if the teaching of their own religion has not been arranged. If there are three pupils of the same religion in the municipality, the municipality must provide them with instruction according to their own religion if the parents or guardians of the pupils so require and the educational basis approved by the Finnish National Board of Education has been established. Mr President! Religions make up one of perhaps the most widespread forms of world perception. The importance of religion for understanding society and culture is therefore central to today's world, where globalisation and international mobility and interaction are constantly increasing. The fact that the management of multiculturalism requires active measures from the state has become apparent in Europe's multicultural states. Although diversity is seen in principle as a positive factor, there has been increasing concern about it. Indeed, several European countries have found that the integration of immigrants has not been successful as expected. Prejudice, especially among the general population, has been a barrier to integration. One solution to improve the situation has been to add content that promotes intercultural understanding to school curricula. Religious education has been considered to play a central role in increasing tolerance and understanding. It is important that the school provides students with the opportunity to understand both their own and other religions and life views in relation to each other and more widely in relation to culture and society. It is also clear that a profound understanding of one’s faith requires an opportunity to look at it in relation to various close and even more distant world views. This is also particularly important from the point of view of the development of tolerance for children and young people. In the light of the above, our current system can no longer be considered appropriate. Therefore, comprehensive schools should move to the teaching of a common subject of religious knowledge and ethics regardless of religion, to the teaching of religious and spectral knowledge, which covers a wide range of world views and religions, as well as content related to religion, tolerance and understanding that emerges from students' own lives. This doctrine of religious and spectral knowledge would include not only values education and ethics but also different religions and world views, focusing on the Evangelical Lutheran Christianity of our own mainstream religion. This approach is applied in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, England and part of the German Länder. Mr President! It should also be noted that the Finnish system is not in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation of the 21st century that religious education should be academic in origin. The Council of Europe's position is based on the idea that knowledge and understanding of the world's religions and views contribute to preventing the emergence of cultural conflicts. At the same time, the study of religion is believed to support historical and cultural literacy. The teaching of religious and spectral knowledge common to all would bring many benefits. This subject would have the same treatment for all students regardless of religion, which would promote equality and equality in teaching. At the moment, the teaching of all students’ own religion cannot even be arranged. In the current situation, pressures to increase the number of religions to be taught continue to grow, such as Bahai, Mandea, and Buddhism. Tamili Hindus have just expressed their desire for their own religious education, as the Krishna education offered by the City of Vantaa does not meet their needs. Similarly, at times the Pentecostal Church has been interested in drawing up its own religious curriculum. At the same time, problems with the availability and qualifications of teachers are becoming more difficult. In the teaching of religious and spectral knowledge common to all, teachers outside the school would no longer have to be used. Mr President! In the current situation, the teaching of other religions is also very challenging for the teacher: how to define a general Islam, for example. It also causes strong feelings among guardians, sometimes expressed as interference with the teacher’s peace of work or possibly even as an attack on the entire system. Between 70,000 and 75,000 Islamic people in Finland make up a rare heterogeneous group. The subject has been studied in the multicultural suburb of Turku Varissuo, where the survey shows Sunni, Shiia and the liberalized. Thus, the teaching of general Islam today is not suitable for all because of the different religious background of children. The Russian Orthodox have also suggested that they should be taught according to the Russian Patriarchate. Some of the orthodox members of the Russian patriarch who live in Finland have taken their children away from Finnish Orthodox religious education. A common subject would also reduce the fragmentation of teaching and facilitate the drafting of rules of procedure in schools. Similarly, the development of curricula would be simplified when only one curriculum was needed. In addition, it would be easy to deal with educational material issues on a school-by-school basis, as with other subjects. The teaching of belief and spectral information common to all can be arranged at the student's own school for each year separately in appropriate groups, which brings a clear improvement to the current state. Current teaching groups are also unpedagogically active in some religions and philosophy, when pupils from different schools are brought together in the same teaching space, for example, in grades 1 to 6 of basic education. The current selection system for spectator substances is complex, and the law is even circumvented in the choices made. On the other hand, there is also an amazing frequency, even many times, of changing the spectator according to the pleasure of the teaching arrangements, contrary to the purpose of the system. As the diversity of religions grows, the needs for teaching their own religion will increase in the future. In addition, you can rightly ask to what extent municipalities and the state should support the educational role of different denominations. The current practice of religious teaching does not support dialogue between children living among different religions, although religious issues are becoming increasingly important as society becomes multicultural, especially in the capital region and large cities. There are already 70,000 to 75,000 Islamic people living in Finland, so there are already more than 61,000 orthodox. Value issues are highlighted at the same time as religion is increasingly visible in children’s everyday life and life, especially in the most multicultural areas. There are currently too few opportunities for important issues, such as growing as a human being and considering life management together with the entire class. In today’s situation, class students break apart when discussing important world views, educational, moral and ethical issues, even though it would be good to reflect on them with the whole class and all the students of different denominations in a class that is common to all. Finally, the Finnish European School is currently teaching religion as a common subject, starting with religious science. The experience of this has been very positive. The reform carried out at Kulosaari Joint School, which teaches different religions and life views in the same teaching group, has also received a lot of positive feedback from pupils and their parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u191	Mr President! This is a very important issue. Many times in the past, attempts have been made to highlight the fact that the earlier confessional teaching of religion is the right way. Now that we are becoming more multicultural, we have new people coming, this is really a challenge in these big cities, where there are a lot of religions, a lot of different groups. The gathering, organisation of these religious teaching groups is a cost issue, it is a matter of organisation, and it also compartmentalizes children in vain when, as Mrs Eloranta said, this kind of common reflection, joint gathering, common understanding of the world and such common knowledge of different religions is the most important thing. And I find this ethics and religious science to replace the present system to be a very worthy idea. In fact, over the decades from here on the left, these proposals to change this system have been made, and they have always been knocked out quite traditionally. When Mr Eloranta mentioned that experiment in Kulosaari, it is quite interesting that Kulosaari, which is not now known as any working-class district here in Helsinki and the capital region, has received much interesting attention from this teaching. I hope that through such experiments and then through legislative changes we can move in a more sensible direction in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u192	Your Honor! I believe that the speeches made above are justified, and this is the moment that must be taken up because we are, in a way, in a situation where we have 30,000 asylum seekers in this country, and we know that their different religious backgrounds are also quite diverse. In a sense, then, for those who are granted asylum, this will increase. I think it would be a good thing for such a civilized country to try to educate children from an early age that there are different religions. It would make it easier, as Eloranta well pointed out, for us to try to tell children that we have different religions in this country. The interaction with different religions has different outlooks on life, starting at school. We would enrich the experience base of our own children who are growing in this country, and they would be more tolerant to each other, and not such a different religious distinction, whether it is said, often even up to hostility, would take place there in the learning environment of children, but this increase in tolerance would be particularly important in this world situation. Let us hope that this initiative can move forward in a positive way so that we can raise children who are richer in their world views than we ourselves may have learned in our time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u193	Mr President! Indeed, it is most timely right now when we are considering the situation of asylum seekers, as Mrs Myllykoski said well here. It might be said that this change in the reform of religious education is even necessary, because I could argue that municipalities are not able to organise, for example, the teaching of Islam to children of refugees in Harjavalta, where there is a large refugee centre. There may not be so many qualified teachers, and the situation is likely to get worse from year to year. As I said in my speech, Tamil Hindus in Vantaa are actually considering starting religious education, and they are also entitled to it if there are three children in the municipality to whom the guardians wish to provide this education. Is this all today?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u194	Madam President! Finally, it must be said of this group, which is now coming here, that I have the impression that they have a pretty strong religious conviction when they come here to Finland, and they will bring it with them. The conflict: if we were then taught different religions, I am afraid that a Lutheran religious teacher who would try to teach Islam would not necessarily be fit to teach it to the parents of these children, because perhaps he would be so-called an infidel. That is why this problem of religious education is becoming increasingly difficult to organise, and now, in this way, it is really urgent that we can bring this idea to Finland and tell different religions that we teach world views and that in that sense all religions are equal in the Finnish comprehensive school. Nothing will be raised, everyone will be told and thereby increased the equality and equality of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u195	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-03-ps-75.u196	Mr President! A few more words on combating inequality and extremism in this area. When I became elected MP, I received a letter from the bishop of my own diocese. Bishop Kalliala wrote: "From the everyday life of the church there is also a wish that our country should consistently build awareness of multicultural and religious Finland, where all religions enjoy equal freedom and participate in the development of society in many of their roles. This is of great importance in combating the violence of various extremists." If Finland wants to promote this feeling of belonging to all kinds of people that the bishop would like, then comprehensive school should indeed move to the teaching of religious and spectral knowledge shared by all pupils. In today’s model of own religion, children are divided from first grade to groups on the basis of religion from parents. Children see that the majority is Lutheran and the teaching is arranged in such a way that Lutheranism is the default. Lessons in minority religions and philosophy are often in difficult times, and the student has jump lessons and transitions to another school. As a result, minority students are labeled abnormal. Mr President! Ethics and Finnish moral rules are taught in the lessons of religion and philosophy. These issues are not dealt with in such a way that all class students are together to reflect on common rules of conduct and respect for others, but are divided into groups on the basis of their home background. Whatever the content of the teaching, the students get the impression that different groups have different moral rules and that the rules only apply within the group. Children’s compartmentalization at school at the same time increases their prejudices toward other kinds. The segregation of students into groups makes children belonging to minorities easily feel outsiders. The feeling of diversity and exclusion that emerges during school increases the risk of exclusion. Studies have shown that ethnic division increases the feeling of inequality. It, on the other hand, can create resentment against society, which in turn may lead to radicalisation. The new basic curriculum for basic education talks about culturally sustainable development and meeting people with different cultural and linguistic backgrounds in basic education. The distinction of students in religious education does not support these goals. Genuine interaction and community will not be achieved in the very subject in which their realisation would be the most important. Mr President! If we want to prevent the pursuit of a united culture and raise Finns to tolerance, the most important place for it is comprehensive school. In view, religions could be taught so that students learn to understand each other’s world views by seeking the common features of all views. Students could discuss together what kind of a good person is and how different people get along by common rules. Conflicts between pupils could also be dealt with naturally in a joint lesson. In the teaching of shared viewing information, all children would feel that they are part of the same community, even though they are a little different. Another point in favour of moving to the doctrine of religious and spectral knowledge shared by all students is the increase in violent extremism in the world. Signs of the spread of violent ideas have been in the air for a long time now, to a growing extent, but lessons from the importance of preventing violence have so far been echoed in deaf ears. The state of play of violent extremism published by the Ministry of the Interior in February showed that violent extremism and signs suggestive of it are also observed in Finnish upper secondary schools and vocational schools. Anger and intolerance based on the ideal world are clearly reflected in the attitudes of Finnish youths. The spread of extremist violence undermines security throughout Europe, including Finland. Many fighters who have left for conflict zones, such as Syria, return here. Only in recent months has the international community really begun to discuss the early rejection of violent extremism. The education ministers of the EU countries, meeting in Paris early in the year, stressed the importance of European-wide measures, in particular education, in preventing exclusion, intolerance, racism and violent radicalism. According to a ministerial declaration, education must also emphasise the fundamental values of freedom, tolerance, equality and the rule of law in the EU. The importance of education in the fight against radicalisation must be recognised internationally by now. Both in Europe and in crisis regions, we need to focus on raising awareness of other religions and cultures. Low levels of education lead to the strengthening of stereotypes on both sides. Preconceptions and ignorance are used to promote propaganda. The training helps to visualize shades of gray between black and white. In future, the Finnish school should invest more in the knowledge of religions and non-religious views. Similarly, we need to develop a culture of discussion in the school world. Of course, this is not just a matter for one subject; it is a matter for all subjects and for the whole school. A transition to the doctrine of religious and spectral knowledge shared by all students in accordance with the legislative proposals would be the right step in this direction.
