ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. The debate will be opened by Minister Vehviläinen, who will present the matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u2	Mr President! We have a change in the Municipal Structures Act before us. After all, the Municipal Structures Act was still a municipal law during the last parliamentary term and earlier, but now, indeed, the Municipal Structures Act, and in fact these changes, which I am presenting here, are also related to the last parliamentary term. It may be worth noting that during the last parliamentary term, at the initiative of the Katainen Government, a major reform of the municipal structure was to be carried out in this country and this reform of the municipal structure was linked to a social reform, and if history were to be reminiscent of, it was that the Constitutional Committee, when dealing with these laws here in Parliament, linked the deadline for municipalities to adopt the social reform. And, as is well known, at the end of the last parliamentary term, the social welfare reform fell here and these requirements for the settlement of the Municipal Structures Act fell off the ground. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Sipilä Government’s programme assumes that municipal mergers are made on a voluntary basis, and that is why I am here today to present these changes to the Municipal Structures Act. It is proposed that the Municipal Structure Act should be repealed with regard to the obligation of the municipalities to report, the conditions and deadlines for reporting and the other provisions relating to the implementation of the municipal structure reform launched in the previous parliamentary term. In the future, therefore, changes in the municipal division would be based on voluntary municipal surveys. The conditions relating to the obligation to report would also be removed from the conditions for municipal unification grants and compensation for central government participation losses. Thus, the merger grant would be paid to all municipalities that will be merged in 2017. The supplement to the merger grant would continue to be paid with a municipality that meets the criteria of the so-called crisis settlement or the criteria of a municipality that is in crisis. The provisions on association grants and compensation for state participation losses are in force on a temporary basis so that current forms of association grants and state participation allowances are paid for the last time in the associations that will enter into force in 2017. In the future, there will be a need to provide at least discretionary support for municipal mergers, at least in situations where municipalities with a crisis in their economy are involved. The Government's proposal also proposes that in 2016 and subsequent municipal mergers, the staff would no longer have legal protection for five years. However, the protection against dismissal would remain unchanged in municipal mergers that have already entered into force. However, in these situations, municipal workers would have normal protection against dismissal, which is, of course, not possible without a legal reason. In their statements, the municipalities welcomed the proposed changes, including the removal of five years of protection against dismissal. For example, all municipalities in the process of merging in 2016 supported the proposed amendments. Mr President! Even if the statutory five-year period of protection against dismissal is abolished, there would still be no obstacle to municipalities agreeing on the status of employees in the event of reunification in a way that goes beyond the minimum requirements of the law. Municipalities are still stable and secure employers. According to statistics, redundancies on production and economic grounds have affected around 0.1 per cent of employees in the local government sector in recent years. In the municipal sector, approximately 16,000 people retire each year. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013, for example, in a study conducted by the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry, the public rejected the special five-year period of protection against dismissal. At the time, only 3% of the respondents supported it. Finally, on these mergers of municipalities: Having looked at the statistics over the last few years, I would like to highlight this voluntary way. In a certain way, it is paradoxical that when the last parliamentary term was forced to bring municipalities together, the number of municipal mergers was amazingly low.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u3	Madam Speaker! The legislative amendment now under discussion is rather minor and may seem technical, but this is still a big victory for local self-government and Finnish local democracy. Mr President! It is said that with a stick in the eye of someone who remembers the old, and I do not remember too much of the old, but I note that during this recent period of municipal elections it has been carefully estimated at least hundreds of hours of time for high-skilled, well-paid officials and municipal workers to carry out these kinds of municipal structures and social statements. Well, now Juha During the Sipilä Government, the link between the social welfare reform and the municipal structure has been restored from the bottom up again. I very much welcome the fact that the new government continues to encourage voluntary municipal mergers. In Finland, municipal mergers are certainly needed in the future, but they must start from the municipalities themselves. Municipalities themselves know what is the best settlement area, which is the best possible starting area for strategic municipal mergers. I welcome the fact that these will continue to be supported by increased state subsidies. [President MariaLohela : Representative Mr Kurvinen,wait a moment. — I would ask the representatives to move outside the Chamber if there is a strong need to hold a debate. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u6	Madam President! Volunteering is certainly the right way for municipal mergers to continue. It is good that the municipalities themselves can make decisions about the administration. But when Mr Kurvinen here wanted to remember some of the old things, it may also be good to say in the Minutes that the last part-emergency alliance was the annexation of parts of Sipoo, which took place during the time of the central Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen. This is of course a fact, i.e. no forced marriage was carried out in Finland during the previous coalition-led government. The government proposal under discussion proposes to waive five years of protection against dismissal, and this has been widely opposed by the employees in the consultation. However, I see this reform first and foremost, that every working teacher, kindergarten teacher, day nurse, nurse and local nurse will certainly find work even when the municipal associations are born. But it is precisely this that makes it easier for the administrative and management structure to be made up-to-date in such situations so that it is as effective and flexible as possible from all angles. I welcome this change in the protection of dismissals and, of course, it is always possible to continue to agree different solutions in the context of the merger agreements. I'm sure this isn't gonna make a big difference. Mr President! I very much welcome and welcome this government proposal and I believe that municipal mergers in Finland will continue to take place, and I am glad that they will be conducted under the leadership of local authorities and municipal decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u7	Madam President! I have to comment on Mr Heinonen's speech in such a way that in practice the municipality of Jalasjärvi was forced to join the previous governments of Katainen and Stubb. In practice, the option was given to join — in practice a coercion — either the Wall River or the City of Kurika. The municipality had managed its own economy well, but because of this problem of the Joint Municipal Authority of Education, the state gave no mercy. Apparently, the local council minister back then had to do some work, and some coercion had to do something, and some municipal union in Finland, when there was apparently more of them in the centre, and the coalition did not do anything, even though there was a great deal of annoyance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u8	Madam President! There's no point arguing about this now. Mr Kurvinen is well aware of the reasons why the municipality of Jalasjärvi fell into financial problems, the decisions that had been taken there and under whose direction, it is now no longer necessary to go further. But, Mr Kurvinen, I think you have just supported the fact that, for economic reasons, these can continue to be done, and this will remain in this legislation in the future. Economic reasons, where services cannot be completed, will continue to be a reason for someone to have to make decisions if they do not arise in such a situation in the municipalities when the money is insufficient and the services are no longer secure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u9	Mr President! I would like to refresh Mr Heinonen's memory in that during the last parliamentary term, municipal and social affairs were beautifully cross-checked with each other and Lavia was involuntarily integrated into Pori during the last parliamentary term. Now one of Lavia's village communities wants to join Kankaanpää. I wish it every success in the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u10	Madam President! Indeed, the municipality of Tarvas River also experienced the same fate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u13	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u14	Mr President! One of the many good things in the government program that is pleasant to promote is now being discussed. The reason has finally won after four wasted years, the municipalities should have been heard earlier. The law in force has forced municipalities into pointless studies, which could not have had results in the first place, because it was known that there was no desire to join. We still had to figure it out. We've got to get out of here. If it's worth finding out, the municipalities will find out. The removal of five years of protection against dismissal is a good thing. This has always been a strange idea for the present working life. Which private companies would do the same? Mr President! I hope that this legislative amendment will be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u15	Madam President! This government proposal is largely positive and also in line with the KD's objectives. The great thing about this is that municipalities now have the opportunity to decide for themselves on the protection of dismissals, and they are able to do so according to local circumstances and also according to the needs of the regions. It is, of course, a pity that the reunification carrots are being taken away, and it is also a bad thing that, from the point of view of the decision-makers, this is a bit tempting when restructuring is being changed from one electoral year to the next. A longer-term strategy for securing welfare services in every part of Finland is needed. I want to ask you something. Are municipal mergers still the goal of the government? Will the government no longer pursue a strong municipality or just a strong province? Last week we also heard about the government's key projects and the reforms, the war, the reduction of municipal obligations and the municipality of the future, and so on, and the government has promised that these reform projects will be carried forward through parliamentary preparation, at least for the wars and the municipality of the future. I would like to ask the Minister if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u16	Madam President! Equality has been discussed in Parliament during the previous period and also during this period on a number of occasions. I welcome the five-year abolition of the protection against dismissal in this bill. I hope, however, that it will not lead to the wrong way of doing things in the municipalities, but that the negotiations will also take place at local level and that local agreement can also take place there. This dismantling of the five-year period of protection equals the same for social and health care staff, namely that the municipal law that we adopted in the previous period already contained an article in which health care staff were not granted any form of protection against dismissal. In other words, when we are in the process of reforming social welfare and health care, it is expected that the staff will have to move and move to different jobs. In that sense, I see this as good. And is it not also the case, Minister, that this equality will be achieved now that this five-year period of protection against dismissal is abolished?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u17	Madam President! Indeed, the amendment of the Municipal Structures Act is welcome. The municipalities, as was heard here, have opposed this from the very beginning. In the capital region alone, a price tag of hundreds of thousands of euros — really wasted money — came on these surveys. This Government Programme mentions that, according to Sipilä’s Government Programme, the reform of social welfare and health care is based on larger autonomous municipalities. Now there will be new self-government areas which are by no means complying with the existing municipal boundaries, so I would like to ask: are we going from ditch to allikko now — when the minister is here — and will these new self-government regions then become those which are forced into the municipalities in some other way?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u18	Madam President! After all, this municipal structure law was twice in the previous parliamentary term here in Parliament and was amended and lastly discussed last April. I remember taking the floor at the time to point out that this is quite a few other things, yes, what was being changed at the time, so that there was a need for updating. One of the points I raised is that, when it was apparent that this social welfare reform was not going to proceed in a municipal manner so that it would be based on strong municipalities, it is true that this criterion, which is contained in Article 4c of this law, refers to the need for sufficiently strong areas, the population base of at least 20,000 inhabitants and so on, has, in a certain way, gone away. That is why it is particularly good that the government has stated that municipal mergers will be based primarily on voluntary action. The fact that this area of self-government is now to come means that the role of municipalities will change very significantly in the future, and that is a legitimate question, which is the municipality of the future. It is a good thing that it is now being widely cross-checked with government-opposition boundaries. This will change so much that certainly many decision-makers have not yet realized what this will mean. Then I would like to say a few words about this five-year period of protection against dismissal. It is quite understandable that it has caused quite a great deal in society, let us say, a feeling of injustice. At the same time, we have a major structural change in which jobs have been reduced, there have been many redundancies, which are extremely regrettable, and then, of course, private sector workers have not been able to find it fair that there are such long protections on the part of the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u19	Madam President! It is always a bad word, as has been said several times in this Chamber over the last few weeks, and it is therefore a very good thing that the real necessity has now been removed. Trust that informed decision-makers will be able to assess whether to get together or not. It is also a good thing to abolish the requirement for clarifications. These studies have now been carried out for years, there has been a lot of paper written, and things have not progressed anywhere. It is a good thing that this matter is gradually being brought out of the way and the world is moving forward. The abolition of the five-year period is also a good thing here. Although it did sound a little watered down, Minister. There was quite a lot of scope to extend this five-year period of protection. I think it would be good, of course, for everyone to keep their jobs, but in these situations, where we are now, unfortunately this is not the case, and I hope that, when the municipalities merge, they will find a place for all their employees to actually work, so that there will not be such shelters. Even now, when this matter is brought forward, I really hope that this government will have the resources, the opportunities, the wisdom to steer the war to the finish line and bring it to an end, to bring these two things together in some way, so that they will become things for the municipalities that do not impose too much burden on them and, above all, do not impose too much burden on the local population, but that they will gradually get into such a normal situation and that the municipalities will be able to do and the new regions will be able to cooperate in their own interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u20	Madam President! However, in the context of this issue, it is certainly worth pointing out that the structure of the municipal court will continue to exist, and that is a good thing. I think it is a good idea for everyone to have those barriers broken, which would also make it easier for us to connect with one another if we see a genuine need for it in the region and voluntarily reach that point. There have been many interventions here on the five-year period of protection against dismissal, and it is perhaps also worth reminding you that this five-year period of protection against dismissal in Parliament was unanimously adopted under the leadership of Minister Manninen. It is a good thing to make that clear in this debate. I would hope that, when we start to deal with this issue here in Parliament, we will also devote ourselves to it, listen to staff representatives and acknowledge that every time municipal mergers take place, the backbone of that new municipality, like those decision-makers, is also motivated by the staff, so that we can get the best out of that union. In that sense, it is probably not appropriate — and fortunately no one here has gone to that — to go down on the staff or to press down on the staff, so the work that professionals do in our municipality field is appreciated so that the municipal court will continue to be in good hands in the future. Perhaps I myself would like to finish this speech as a matter of urgency for the parliamentary preparation of the municipality of the future, because it is quite foggy that the municipalities are now going to have to move forward. We know that social and health care reform is coming at some point. That means quite a thing for our municipality. At the same time, when there is a terrible pressure to reform the middle-level administration, to shift a number of tasks away from the municipalities, the question does arise that what will the municipality actually do in the future, what will this future of our municipal system be? This would certainly be a good idea in cooperation, just beyond party political boundaries, for this reflection to take place. I would like the Minister to take initiative now and take a broad view of the whole municipal field as well as the political field to prepare the municipality of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u21	Madam President! Warm thanks to the Minister for Local Government for this bill and warm thanks also to the opposition for their constructive attitude. Just as was mentioned in the previous speech, the staff is a resource of the municipality, but in fact many municipal mergers were prevented by the fact that productivity could not be increased due to the fact that the entire municipality had five years of protection from dismissal. It meant absurd situations, including the fact that managers continued in various development promotion tasks in the municipalities where the joints were made. In many cases, if municipal mergers have been carried out successively, this protection against dismissal has been going on for an unreasonable period of time. It is good that it will be agreed locally in the future, but together with the workers' organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u22	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u23	Madam President! About ten years ago, when these municipal mergers were introduced to the agenda — not even mentioned in the then government programme — an extensive survey was carried out of all municipalities with more than 2,000 inhabitants for a period of 10 years, which was divided into three separate periods. The aim was to clarify differences in unit prices in different municipalities, in different sizes of municipalities, but also in politically coloured municipalities. The law on reduced costs familiar to industry — which is common, I am sure everyone knows: the next unit piece is always cheaper — is also supposed to be suitable for service production. I still think that the study by Professor Loikkanen and Professor Susiluoto is quite useful, and I have not seen any more new material. It can be found, among other things, on the website of the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector under the name DEA research. Indeed, these unit prices have been calculated there, and it seems that if there are no other distractions, then when the municipality’s population is between 30,000 and 60,000, the unit prices are generally at their lowest. According to this bill of diminishing costs, Helsinki, as a city of 600,000 inhabitants, should be superior in unit prices. My own municipality is located about 35 kilometers north of Helsinki, and our difference is about 20 percent at unit prices. Indeed, political colour does not seem to affect how costs develop either, but Finland’s special circumstances do mean that long journeys and a small volume of municipal services in Lapland are clearly the reason why it is expensive for the municipality to provide the 600 services it is responsible for organising. However, the fact that the previous municipal reform agreed on a five-year threshold did disturb the labour market more than was originally believed. At the time, it was probably thought when the law was being turned on that the retirement of the baby age groups automatically opens up this stalemate. This did not happen. Now, if the municipalities are combined, I believe, first and foremost, that the local people who are responsible for the municipality's trust or preparation for office know the conditions so well that such a comprehensive law should not be adopted. Instead, the municipality should receive state aid in areas such as business, administrative development or similar. Nor is it innocent here the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which has left a great deal of resources for lobbying between the state and the municipalities by demanding more funding for municipalities from the state or something else, when there would have been a lot of opportunities for further development. I say this because when you apply for control units in this material, some 300 municipalities, the cost differentials of between 10 and 20 % are no different. However, when all the processes are public on the municipal side — they do not have any business protection, they are all visible, and many people also tell others about their good success stories — it would be advisable for the local authority with a large number of representatives here to be more interested in the good performances that have been achieved elsewhere. At the turn of last week, I had the opportunity to visit one of the least populated municipalities in Finland, Savukoski, and the mayor who invited me there on a going-away trip sends his greetings that "Eero, you would be an excellent representative of Parliament if you took care of three new jobs in Savukoski". Kerava's three are not yet enthusiastic, perhaps 30, but accelerating the business world will lead to a better situation for unemployment and also to the municipality's property through wage income and corporate taxes. In this way, the State should support the municipality and leave the actual decision to join the municipality, whether it be a partnership or directly a merger, to the local authorities. Finally, perhaps to this point in Sipoo, which I am well aware of. I feel sorry for Sipoo, who developed his own territory and had to give up quite a trick. It has now become apparent that in the area where planning was to be carried out, Natura and other constraints prevent its use to a large extent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u24	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Lehte for his excellent speech and for recognising that our municipal court is very different and that it is a different one. Finland consists of different regions, different municipalities, and all decision-making must respect the diversity and take into account the regional specificities that exist in this country. A former minister stated during the last parliamentary term that municipal boundaries are not covered by municipal self-government. I am extremely pleased that the government has now taken the view that, in fact, municipal boundaries belong to municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u25	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u26	Madam President! Already four years ago, in the government negotiations, there was a serious debate on the abolition of five years' protection against dismissal. At that time, however, it was concluded that it was being adhered to, and the reason was also very simple. The reason was that with five years of protection from dismissal, we got mayors and municipal leadership into enthusiastic municipal associations. Of course, now that changes are made, there is always a threat whether the mayor will now become more reluctant to make these changes. In view of the working people of the municipality, I am not very concerned about the status of the performing staircase, because caring, instructive, corrective hands in the municipalities are needed, and especially when we remember how many people are retiring from the municipalities in the coming years, the need is quite obvious. But instead, municipal mergers up until now have at least caused us in many municipalities in Eastern Finland to have a lot of different management strategy development leaders, as all former mayors have been looking for jobs protected by five years' protection from dismissal. I'm glad we can get rid of these. In future, I would like answers in this debate to the effect that, now that the law is being amended so that the protection against dismissal is no longer protected by the law, it is sufficient to ensure that this protection against dismissal is removed. And, on the other hand, if we get rid of it and, at the same time, when municipal grants are abolished, what are the ways in which municipalities will be encouraged and enticed to make municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u27	Mr President! At the beginning, Mr Kurvinen said that the municipal structure and the social welfare reform were now separated. That is probably the case, but in fact we are in the hands of the biggest municipal reform in Finland's history. The reform of the social welfare and regional administration will change municipalities very much. I see that this regional government as such is good, but it cannot be said that this is not a genuine municipal reform. We really need to rethink what it is, what it does and what it does not do. However, I see that although a lot of tasks are likely to be transferred to the regional government, in addition to the wars, the need for municipal mergers is not eliminated, especially in urban areas, because the urban structure there is very interconnected and, in particular, from the perspective of land use and transport planning and management, a unified municipality would be appropriate. So I would actually ask the Minister the same question as the previous speaker: are there sufficient incentives to continue to engage in municipal mergers in those situations where it is necessary from the perspective of the overall interests of society?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u28	Madam President! I share Mr Sarkkinen's concern that we should continue to consult the regions in this social and regional reform. There must be a message, for example, about which new self-government area the individual municipality belongs to. Yes, we have to take a position in all administrative reforms, that from the bottom up, not from Helsinki. The doctrine of the best project was that when municipalities get to think for themselves, there will be alliances and reforms. But if we start dictating the ministry, we start dictating the government, we know better here than in the regions, then there will be a conkelo, nothing will happen again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u29	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u30	Madam President! Just as Mr Östman has said here, this amendment to the Municipal Structures Act is essentially in line with the objectives of the Christian Democrats prior to the elections, and we are pleased that this obligation to clear up these mergers is being lifted, i.e. voluntary, and, on the other hand, that this protection of dismissal comes under local consideration. What is particularly problematic about this is that, when the protection of dismissal has been chained up in our municipalities, for example, in certain areas where the union of municipalities has followed one another, it is precisely that this chaining has been contrary to all the savings that have been set for these mergers of municipalities. However, as has been said here in several speeches, this is actually just the opening up to the mother of all municipal reforms, that is to say, to the mess that is coming. We have had too little ideological debate about what the municipality of the future is in Finland. At the moment, we have a very strong self-government position, but then there is also a broad organisational responsibility. Now, if you think that half of the staff in many municipalities and more than half of the budget are transferred to these self-governing regions, you can ask what the municipality of the future is. I hope it is not the French Parks Department, which then decides on these green areas. In this connection, I would have liked to ask the Minister what is happening. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had this before us. Keva, or this funding of pensions at the moment, but what will happen in the future to the pension provision of staff when a large part of the staff is transferred to those social welfare areas? Will this pension cover take place in the future in Keva, or will we move on to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u31	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Lehte and Mr Kurvis for the words that have been said on the basis of solid experience. Representatives Lehti and also Kurvinen drew attention to the fact that the word 'obligatory', to which Mr Tolppanen also referred, causes Finnish shivering in the spine and should now, as attitudes change here, have enormous respect in that regional administration and municipal administration. It is in the minds of the people that when the word'must' begins to appear, it will also be in a state of panic or in an overall sense that uneconomic decisions will be made, which will then be a problem for both of us in the future. It should be removed and respected as far as possible to the extent that the citizens of the municipality represent it. As I mentioned earlier in the reply, a good example is now that when Lavia was forced into Pori against her will, there is one village community with 147 inhabitants who want to join Kankaanpää, where the City Council and the City Council have unanimously supported it. The village community, which is very close to Kankaanpää but very far from Pori, could serve exactly where they are used to visiting. Such a will should be respected if the Land Survey has stated in its opinion that they have nothing negative to see, but will give a positive opinion on that decision. I hope that, in line with this new climate of attitude, the matter that will soon come to the Government could be decided in accordance with the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u32	Mr President! Mr Räsänen gave a good speech on the history of this five-year period of protection from dismissal, which comes from the time that Minister Manninen started to run the Best project. This promise of five years of protection for municipal staff when municipalities joined was a carrot in the big picture where municipal mergers were created and the municipal structure went in a good direction. Now it seems that time has passed this five-year period of protection from dismissal and other carrots are needed. It has done its job, municipal mergers have been created, and the municipal structure has developed in a good direction. Mr President! However, there is one point in this government proposal that needs to be considered in committee. It relates to the status of the personnel of the municipalities in which, in 2016, the municipal union will then be implemented by a decision already taken. When these municipal mergers were negotiated between these municipalities, the legislation in force at the time provided for this five-year period of protection against dismissal. Now this new law means that, in 2016, as municipal mergers become reality, there will no longer be a five-year period of protection against dismissal. All these municipalities have been asked for an opinion and they are of the opinion that this protection against dismissal is not needed. In that respect, it seems quite clear, but the staff who have been involved in the process in these municipalities have, of course, their own ideas and certainly their own disappointments. This needs to be looked at a little more closely in committee as to how this staff position in these alliances will be achieved adequately.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u33	Madam President! Last season, efforts were made to push ahead with local government reform and the social welfare reform acted as a shoe spoon in order to link small municipalities together. Local government reform is now correctly carried out ahead of the services, and the social welfare self-government reform will certainly also have an impact on local authorities. The question of the municipality of the future is good and necessary, but the most important question is: what is the division of labour between the state, the autonomous region and municipalities? Social reform is no longer just a social reform, but, above all, a reform of state and regional government, which, in addition to the wars, will also redesign the future of land use, secondary education, transport and employment services. It is great that the reform of social services, the reform of municipalities — one and the same in practice — has now been carried forward on the basis of expert knowledge, which was very clear in the report by Thomas Pöyst, among others. It is regrettable that there is now no information on parliamentary preparation. At three o’clock today, there will be a monitoring team for the first time, but is it a question of the government being in the car driver’s seat and the opposition being in the backseat and allowed to follow? Last time, Minister Rehula said that at three o'clock today there is a point of proof: either the opposition commits itself to what is said or can leave the door. I hope that the reform will also be carried out in a parliamentary manner, so that the opposition can give all its support to the good work of the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u34	Madam President! I believe that the proposed amendment to the Municipal Structures Act is good and well-founded. First of all, this removal of the compulsory settlement is very good because the municipalities themselves know in their own plans and the wise delegates will be able to decide after good preparation of officials whether there is a need for municipal mergers or not. The kind of compulsory inquiry that was allowed to take place in municipalities during the last parliamentary term... So many officials and so many shop stewards took a stand on them — a tremendous chaos: there was only an explanation after the inquiry, and everything was wasted. Fortunately, that time is now over and this has returned to reasonable lines. In other words, it is quite right that the obligation to settle should be lifted. Secondly, when municipalities want to join together — the neighbourhoods and its voluntary nature — they also create that new potential for joint decision-making. The idea of the Local Government Act is that the decision-making power lies with the local authorities and the local authorities feel necessary in the process of making decisions about their own region. If we're forced to go, it's known in this country that it has a very bad echo. Secondly, Mr President, on this protection against dismissal: It is true that the five-year issue of protection against dismissal now going into history with this law is a very good thing. The municipalities themselves can decide this too, and we must remember that a huge number of people are retiring at a perfectly normal pace, and that means that this section, which was once a five-year safeguard clause, has become redundant. And I am quite sure that the municipality is holding on to every skilled employee today, because it has the skills and it is very difficult to get new talent, new people, such as health care. I believe that this issue will be resolved on its own, there is no need for any more than simply stating that this five-year protection does not exist, and the municipalities will be able to resolve that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u35	Madam Speaker! In this previous speech, as in many other speeches, this so-called obligation of clarification has been very much on the table, and it received a lot of criticism during the last term of government. But I have always wondered what the bad news is about whether there will be fear of the outcome of the inquiry if you do not want to do so. So I would understand better if there were opposition to forced marriages, but the opposition to studies is a sign that the decision-makers are apparently afraid that this inquiry will give a different answer than they would wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u36	Madam President! This is a very much-awaited and desirable reform, precisely as regards the issue of protection against dismissal. Of course, responsible employers and developing, progressive municipalities will continue to strive for a good personnel policy and not for municipal workers to be transferred to the bay bench and the guillotine to work. In one way, this bill mirrors the fact that one road has now been completed. I myself come from Kuopio, which is used as a national example of how, through several municipal mergers, this five-year period of protection against dismissal and precisely those tasks with unnecessary overlaps have not been able to transfer persons to other tasks or even to terminate them. As such, we in Finland have a fine, long tradition of municipal self-government, it is part of our civic democracy and it has the protection of the Constitution. Overall, the municipal structure is undergoing a major change, the municipal field is undergoing a change. I believe that the municipality of the future is increasingly understood as a community of people, which it means from the outset. The word 'Gemeinde', which is derived from German, describes the community in particular and is increasingly seen and understood as a healthy and institutional part of civil society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u37	Madam President! I would also like to add to that previous speech that the government is on the right track when it does not immediately stop these carrot possibilities, but is also a psychological factor that easily makes a positive decision when it comes to a small carrot. It is still in force until 17 C.E. so that it can accelerate those who have hesitated and hesitated that they will not be forced to do so. But with a little carrot in it, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u38	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u39	Mr President! One of the few criteria of the system of central government transfers, which entered into force at the beginning of 2015, remains unchanged in the new system, is peripherality. At its worst, this could lead to a crisis in the municipality. The peripherality rate of municipalities will continue to consist of the sum of two population base indices. The second is measured from the population centre of the municipality concerned at a distance of 25 km, the second at a distance of 50 km. Inequality is caused by the measurement of distance by the so-called bird path, i.e. the calculation does not take into account, among other things, the additional distance caused by the circulation of water bodies. Thus, a municipality broken down by water can receive State aid in proportion to a municipality where the distance to larger population centres is practically the same by road. The municipality of Rääkkylä, the most insular and broken up by watercourses, is clear in this calculation of the fall and peripherality. The central government share received by the municipality of Rääkkylä from 2015 on the basis of its remoteness is EUR 75 per capita. Correspondingly, the average of all municipalities in North Karelia’s remoteness coefficient is as much as double, i.e. 157 euros. It is clear that insularity and water quality entail additional costs. Islands and areas surrounded by river basins are usually isolated from urban areas and concentration and services. The organisation and achievement of services at central level is difficult and costly in remote areas. However, municipalities must organise services for each of their residents in accordance with equal access. I would therefore like the criteria for remoteness to be re-examined for each municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u40	Then Minister Vehviläinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u41	Mr President! Thank you for this constructive and good debate and lunch, which has come to quite a large extent to other issues than just this change in the Municipal Structures Act. Many very good speeches have been made here, and I think that Mr Räsänen rightly said that the structure of the municipal court will continue to exist in the future. And so it is that, whether it is a question of necessity or voluntaryity, the municipalities are, of course, reflecting among themselves. And while I myself was evaluating the government's actions from the opposition's bench during the last parliamentary term, I do think in that way that, of course, the discussion of these municipal mergers and cooperation with other municipalities in the municipalities is always a driving force. I do not think it is good that the municipality only shrinks towards itself and does not want to have such a cooperation debate across municipal boundaries. Maybe you could take a good point of view like that. Then one of the themes here has been over the others, the municipality of the future. I say that it is also done on a parliamentary basis. Last Friday I had a group of officials together, and we wondered how we could do it in a good way. It is very important that we work together across party boundaries on what the municipality of the future is: whether it is a vitality or what it is. We have the following municipal elections in April 2017, so it is important that before that we have also made these things a common vision. I am going to move on here so that, in the coming weeks and this autumn, I am sure that this parliamentary working party can be set up overall. This reform of social security and regional government was also ignored here — I will not go there, we will have other situations to talk about it. But I would appeal to us to have a common vision of this too, to make it easier for things, for major administrative reforms, to be carried forward for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you for the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u42	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on 4 and 8 July of the order of business. on the subject. The debate is opened by Minister Stubb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u43	Madam President! There are tax laws relating to the budget for the coming year under discussion today, and it is perhaps appropriate to say a few words about the government's tax policy policy in general. Its main cornerstones are the records of the Government Programme that no one’s labour taxation will increase during this reign and that our overall tax rate, one of the highest in the world, will not rise. As Minister of Finance, I also seek to ensure that the government's economic and tax policy is consistent and predictable and based on as much research as possible. All these policies have the same important goal: to encourage Finnish people to work and economic activity so that the financial basis for our well-being can also be secured for future generations. Our challenge is to stimulate economic growth and employment growth, while striving for a balance in public finances and for a break in debt. It's a difficult equation. The balance of public finances also requires fiscal tightening measures which, when poorly elected, undermine economic growth and employment. Therefore, the choices made by tax policy must be considered very carefully so that the conditions for entrepreneurship and work, and hence for growth, are not undermined by tax choices. Services that are important to us Finns, i.e. day care centres, health centres, nursing homes, comprehensive schools and social welfare transfers, are funded through work. The more companies are created in Finland that employ and pay taxes, the better Finland can. That is why this government wants to invest in work and entrepreneurship. All our decisions aim at creating 110,000 new jobs in Finland during the Government term. The government's tax policy also shows a work-valued and work-friendly policy. I will take three examples of this. First. From the beginning of next year, we will reduce the tax burden on small and medium-income Finnish labour by EUR 450 million by increasing the reduction in labour income. In particular, the aim is to reduce incentives for taking up work and to make even low-paid work more profitable. The increase in labour force activity also increases domestic consumption and, as a result, increases the pace of economic activity. Another example. The Government also carries out an index check at earnings level on the taxation of work at all income levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u46	Madam President! In this minute I would like to say to you, Mr Stubb, that there is a serious problem with your proposal, and that concerns:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u49	Mr President! Mr Stubb, you said that this lowering of the so-called'solidarity tax', which is a good thing in itself, will ensure that everyone participates in these efforts. In fact, those with the highest income that have been covered by the solidarity tax will not have an increased tax burden. You should have made an active decision to abolish the solidarity tax, not to extend it; it was already in the frame. The question is: why did you not take another category of solidarity tax on very large incomes, when these too would actually have been involved? The second question concerns car taxation. Does it make any sense that, at the same time as cutting off low-income workers, pensioners, unemployed people, students — and now you are cutting off low-income wages — you are handing out EUR 200 million to those who can afford to buy new cars? You can't get a fair deal out of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u50	Madam President! A particularly challenging task is to secure the income base of the welfare society in a situation where work should be encouraged and taxation should be considered reasonable. In a situation like this, I think it is right to create a reduction in the income of workers who are encouraged to pay taxes and to obtain some sort of moderation from it. And that, of course, is a problem. We are in a situation where the correction margin is very small: by heading there or by heading here not very much to the tax base to generate more revenue. In this situation, I think it is absolutely essential to encourage work and to give those people a reduction in their earnings. This is absolutely right in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u51	Mr President! Yes, it seems that our country’s pensioners are now confused. It was well known before the elections, as has just been heard here on behalf of Mr Kalli, that the centre of the last elections pushed for stricter taxation for pensioners in relation to wage earners. If our common goal is to try to support purchasing power in these difficult times, then purchasing power is, Mr Centre, the purchasing power of the pensioner. The main thing that may have occurred to me is that, of course, much has been focused in this Chamber on these changes in the coat of the Finns — whether in Greece or whether it is a worker who has earned his salary and is now being forced to cut wages — but the fact that the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, really said before the elections: "We have to see where the tax revenue comes from, whether it is fair or not. Our basic philosophy is that pensions cannot be taxed more hard than work, i.e. pension tax and labour tax on the same line." Now you're gonna tear this apart again. Why has this basic philosophy changed for you, Minister for Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u52	Madam President! One minute will not be able to go through these different tax laws very deeply, but I would really like to comment on just one point. When we consider how to keep the tax base of a welfare society, fighting the black economy is one of the key issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u55	Mr President! Minister Stubb said that such amnesty law or active repentance has already been in force in many countries. It has been so, in some lands for decades, in many lands for years. It has been existing legislation. But here in Finland, the solution presented by the government has quite a signal effect. The question is why, at this very moment, when the automatic exchange of information comes into force in 2017, when international cooperation, both within the OECD and in the rest of the world, is becoming increasingly tense and those who are illegally hiding their money are becoming more and more caught in the future, such a fixed-term law will be passed and a modest amount of 10 million will be sought. The signal effect is, of course, unquestionably that we want to get rid of some sort of group of people who have hidden their money in a criminal way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u56	Mr President! I, too, think that much time has been devoted to this major change of direction for the Finns of Peru, here in Parliament after the elections, in relation to these pre-election speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u59	Madam President! The long-term blue thread of the convention's almost ancient fiscal policy has been that work is always given priority, and so is next year's budget. I personally believe that it is fair and reasonable for the taxation of people with low and middle incomes to be reduced where the money is most needed to help them. The taxation of labour is not tightened by the majority. The solidarity tax will be extended to those who earn EUR 72000, that is to say, to extend the number that will thus be included in these joint efforts. In my opinion, this is fair and justifiable in such a difficult situation that everyone should be involved in the voluntary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u60	Mr President! In this economic situation, it would be good for everyone to shoulder their own responsibilities. In this respect, it is somewhat surprising that, although it was said that the solidarity tax had been imposed on those earning 72,000, in practice taxation would not increase. For example, we parliamentarians do not increase taxation. I had thought that when this solidarity tax was reduced to 72,000, I too would have paid more taxes, but this reduction in labour income will prevent this. Personally, I think it is very important that the taxation of people with low and middle incomes should be reduced, but now that we are talking about fairness and the economic situation where we are at the moment, when the lowest incomes are called upon to make sacrifices, this should be seen as being fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u61	Mr President! Our red thread in taxation has always been justice. Increasing the reduction in labour income will make it easier for low-paid people, and that is a good thing. Low wage earners accelerate consumption and thus generate growth. But the basic deduction is the element that gives justice to pensioners and the unemployed in particular. Now, in a way, the government does not make any improvements to the basic reduction and at the same time cut off the unemployed and pensioners. Today it has been announced that the government intends to cut 100 days of unemployment benefit out of earnings-related daily allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u64	Mr President! I understood Mr Heinonen's speech so that he, too, accepts this placing pensioners at a disadvantage with those in work. So the coalition has completely reversed what you said before the elections, when you swore and actively argued that the tax treatment of pensioners must be the same as that of those who work. There are 1.5 million pensioners, quite a few of whom are concerned with this turn of your coat. They do not know that yet, but there will be a lot more questions when they see what happens next year in taxation. And Mr Heinonen did not say what this is about, why pensioners are treated differently than workers. Why are they subject to a higher tax on the same result as those employed? Could you, Mr Heinonen, tell us why you have to take a higher tax on pensioners than on-the-jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u65	Madam President! Earlier, Mr Arhinmäki said that those who have previously been subject to a solidarity tax would not be taxed more heavily. That's not true. Of course, their taxation will be tightened by the reduction of that threshold to EUR 72000. They pay between what they have received in the past with another tax rate, now a tax on solidarity, i.e. stricter taxation. Let us now fix this in the Minutes so that the correct information comes. In other words, those who have previously been subject to the solidarity tax will continue to pay even more of the solidarity tax. You would think this would be good enough for the left, too, for those who make a lot of money to be involved in these projects, and this has now been corrected in that Minutes. The taxation of pensioners is certainly problematic in this situation, as are all these tax solutions. It has now been argued that the tax solution can strengthen employment, and that is precisely what we are trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u66	Mr President! When there is an increase in the reduction in labour income, it also applies to taxes between EUR 70000 and EUR 100000, and this will lead to the very situation raised here by Mrs Myller: less taxation for Members of Parliament. Can it be right for the government to cut 100 days' earnings-related allowances from the unemployed, EUR 200 million, the government to cut the housing allowance for pensioners, the government to increase the taxation of pensioners and, at the same time, to reduce taxes on salaries at the level of MPs? When there is an appeal here that parliamentarians should take part in the projects — and I agree — the best way to do so is to pay tax so that everyone who receives a salary at the level of MPs would pay more taxes than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u69	Mr President! The problem is that we have a high tax rate and a welfare society needs tax revenue. How can we get them? We must encourage work to be done, and it is therefore a good thing that there is a reduction in earnings. Not in the same situation as encouraging work, of course, in this economic situation it is possible to do the same for pensioners — there must be some honesty. And therefore, when you have to make choices, you have to make politics in time, now you have to secure the tax base and therefore encourage people to work. This is as simple as it can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u70	Madam President! This Income Tax Scale Act is a wide-ranging package. For the most part, I believe that the changes proposed by the government are quite welcome. A few comments and questions I would like to answer. The amount of the interest reduction on the housing debt will be reduced, as was heard, and gradually. In this connection, I would like to ask in concrete terms whether the government has assessed the consequences for the housing debtors if and when interest rates rise. As that right of deduction gradually declines, it can have quite catastrophic consequences. Then there's another thing. In his speech, Minister Stubb spoke beautifully about the government's contribution to entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs. And even in this speech by Mr Kalli, it was heard that the government wants to encourage work, but that requires that we have enough jobs in the future. I would like to ask where the entrepreneurship reduction planned by the government has remained: why is it not
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u71	Mr President! Mr Kalli showed commendable honesty when he said that politics is being done in time — the time before the elections is different from the time after the elections — and you acknowledged that there is no reason to treat pensioners as well as employees. Minister Stubb is obliged to ask that, when you roughed up the MTV3 duel specifically for not agreeing to give this tax reduction to pensioners, you considered it wrong, so should we conclude that you have submitted to the centre line or that you have changed your mind. And let us also say that it is certainly clear that, contrary to what the Minister said, taxation will increase, from EUR 2000 to EUR 3000 per month for pensioners, even compared to this year, but the average pension, EUR 1600, will be subject to a higher tax of EUR 235 for pensioners than for employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u72	Mr President! At present, the three highest income deciles are the only groups of employees who pay net taxes, i.e. more taxes than income transfers. It is clear that this group is needed in Finland, i.e. the group that pays more taxes than benefits, otherwise we will not be able to finance the current welfare state. And how do we get more of that crowd? More of this will be achieved by giving us more productive jobs. Higher wages are paid for high productivity work. And again, according to the study, it is obvious that taxation has a key impact on what creates those jobs. People don't change so much for tax purposes, but jobs do. It is therefore essential that the middle-income and good-income earners also maintain a competitive tax, that we will also have productive work in this country in the future, so that we can finance this public expenditure, which, admittedly, at the moment calls for cleaning up in many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u73	Madam President! I would also have commented on this law of effective repentance. These international experiences show that such amnesty laws are only effective in reducing the black economy when the risk of being caught is real. And how to ensure that the risk of getting caught is real? By allocating sufficient resources to combat precisely the shadow economy and tax crime. Sweden is an example of this, and it is in Sweden, for example, that much more money has been available to the police than here. But what is this government doing? It will set up a temporary amnesty law for next year, which will at the same time reduce the budget for combating the shadow economy from the police, the enforcement department and also the judiciary. The outcome of this package is a law that is likely to have a very weak impact, but in any case the law sends a very dubious moral message about government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u74	Mr President! We must support the government's idea of trying to reduce the tax burden on labour and instead prefer to tax harmful consumption. But it must be said that this proposal has forgotten the weakest of all, the low-income people who live on benefits in particular — pensioners, students and others — and this increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax would have been the right remedy when we know that the money they spend goes directly to that consumption. It is a good element that the government is proposing a reduction in the category of solidarity tax, but it should also have created an additional category at the top. I'm telling you, I'm pretty sure we're going to be left with the most well-paid of all. They are treated with a more gentle hand and then appealed to charity to do their part, but they would have to be dealt with by politics rather than by charity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u75	Mr President! Finland belongs to the Protestant countries of northern Europe from its own culture, although of course culture changes and lives all the time. Sin, repentance, and forgiveness are the terminology used in these areas for centuries, and that is familiar. Now the government is bringing this effective proposal of repentance, which is also interesting in this framework. The government brings forward a proposal to seek financial returns by allowing a person to be convicted of a tax offence. The government’s proposal shows that the maximum penalty for gross tax fraud is up to four years’ imprisonment, which means that quite a huge change from such a moral point of view is involved when such forgiveness becomes possible in connection with such a great crime. I understand that tax returns must be applied for, it is pragmatic, but there is a bit of a point of view here that a certain kind of straightforward morality is subject to economic interests in this context. The government does justify this quite well with the idea of equality, that when others pay, other people get some money. But it is one thing that others are now freed from criminal charges because they are pardoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u76	Madam President! This is perplexing in itself, because we have often been a little sorry that the centre has adopted a cold coalition economic line, and this time, when we referred to this debate before the elections by Stubb and Sipilä, we would have liked to have chosen a coalition line, and then, of course, we would have chosen the centre line. The Coalition Party therefore stated that it was ready to change its basic philosophy and now to completely turn its coats before pensioners in relation to this tax issue. In other words, the coalition is now actually accepting that pensioners are taxed more heavily than employees. And this is a completely different message from even the elections you held with the centre, and that must be said to you, Mr Stubb and the honourable assembly, that more than half of the pensioners are moving in fork between EUR 1000 and EUR 2000 per month and the tax differential between all of them in relation to the employee is weakening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u77	Madam President! Anyone who spends longer in the house will find that this tax treatment of pensioners is a theme that in its various forms
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u82	Mr President! That is the way it is now that if this is now being put on the wrong track so that pensioners are reinstated to pay more taxes than employees, then it will be wrong there since the whole parliamentary term, if the subsequent reductions are then given evenly to everyone. So it's a run-in, as Mr. Viitanen said. And now both Kalli in the centre and Heinonen in the Assembly have told us that this crime is deliberate, that you want pensioners to be taxed more heavily. But you have not explained why this is being done. And when Mr Kalli said, Mr Heinonen, that this is difficult, that there is so little money, 200 million you will spend on a car tax discount and will not do a tight one. There was a 200 million goof in there. But if you had to give something to an unemployed or retired person, you'd be out of money right now: "There's none, all of me already."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u85	Mr President! There's always been a shortage of money, and there will be. But as I pointed out, political choices must be made. Yes, we must worry about young families with children who have the costs of starting a family, the costs of living. It is then that there must be an opportunity to get to work and to encourage work. Personally, I would be willing to pay a higher tax than my children, for example, who are active in work and who have a family to draw on. This is a clear choice of values. Now this small margin of manoeuvre is directed specifically to stimulate work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u86	Mr President! It has now become clear that this is a conscious choice, apparently a choice of values, and when Mrs Kalli says here that the central position is that middle-income pensioners must pay more tax in relation to employees, and now that this proposal is tearing to around EUR 2 and a half a hundred a year, I believe that our country's pensioners would like to know what your line will be in the future. How much more should pensioners pay tax on the same income as employees? Is there a limit? As we heard, this is a matter of value choice. As far as Mr Zyskowicz is concerned, who said here that the taxation of pensioners will always raise a debate: yes, Mr Zyskowicz was the one who raised this debate last spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u89	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma said that if this now goes wrong by giving employees this income deduction, which does not apply to the income of pensioners, it will then be wrong from then on. Mr Heinäluoma, I would like to tell you that many pensioners are of the opinion that the situation is already wrong. So if you think that the situation is now in balance, then obviously you have not come across a group of pensioners who are talking about this so-called'retirement' tax, which is already seen to have exacerbated this situation between pensioners and employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u91	Mr President! The Left is seeking at least three key principles from taxation: We must safeguard the tax base of the welfare state. This requires an adequate rate of taxation, an adequate collection of tax and an efficient collection of tax. Taxation must be fair. It will have to narrow the income gap rather than increase the income gap. It must be fair between the various population groups. And taxation is not separate from the rest of the decision-making process. It cannot be right for pensioners to be subject to stricter taxation once they have been deprived of housing allowance, EUR 60 per month, they will suffer from cutting medical expenses, cutting travel expenses and so on. The dynamic effects of taxation are also important. The drastic reduction of the corporation tax has not led to the desired dynamic effects. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the left is proposing to try the English model, to try another means of boosting economic growth and employment, that is to say, a temporary reduction in VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u92	Madam President! In the course of the debate, the debate has gone far enough, but the basic truth is that working in this country must be more profitable, every parliamentary term after the parliamentary term. If there is no incentive, then we will go to the weak ice then, because the only way to put this country's economy in order is to expand the tax base. We need to get those unemployed people to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u95	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen said that our model would undermine exports, but there have been significant tax reductions for export companies: Depreciation of the Kela levy, EUR 1 billion, reduction of corporation tax, and now the government plans to pay EUR 800 to 900 million for the social security contribution. Where'd you see this? Mostly the fact that dividends have been distributed at a record rate. The question is that, in order to move forward from this debate, all different incomes should be included in the same progressive tax table — whether you receive labour or pension income or capital, dividend income — according to the size of the income to the same progressive table. This is a left-wing model, and this is the direction we should go. But, Mr President, with regard to these value choices, the government is revitalizing the international car industry by EUR 200 million, with a reduction in the car tax. By the way, it happens to be exactly the same amount that is now being cut off from the unemployed, 100 days of earnings-related allowance will be cut off. By the way, it's a rough choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u96	Mr President! It is true that, in order to preserve the foundations of the welfare state, we must insist on the willingness to pay taxes in all income groups and in such a way as to ensure that this tax is paid in a fair manner. When it is said that the taxes paid by the top three deciles are net taxes, I do not know whether the education, social infrastructure,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u99	Mr President! There are quite a few questions that have been answered, such as 'yes, the government clearly wants pensioners to pay more taxes than employees who earn the same amount' and 'yes, the decision has been made deliberately', which has also been discovered in this debate. And yes, it has also come to light and the answer has been that the assembly before the elections spoke differently and now, after the elections, is doing otherwise than it promised in the election debate. But there are two questions, Mr President and Mr Stubb, which have not yet been answered in this debate. The first is why, even with the ability and willingness to pay taxes, taxation in the MP's income category will be reduced. The second question is why pensioners are made to pay higher taxes than employees. These are the questions that should be answered here today, at the very heart of the matter. I see that the questions are painful and the Minister is there more on his computer than listening to this debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u102	Mr President! At this point I must say that the fact that pensioners have to pay more taxes has already been done before this government. Unfortunately, this has been a fact in this country. It is rather unfortunate if you do not know how taxation has risen in the past. Another thing that's never been changed here. Now I ask the Minister: would it be possible to come to this day and take account of the measures that are now being taken? We have a reduction in employment income for people, we have a pension income reduction for pensioners, but we do not have a reduction in unemployment income for the unemployed, which means that at the moment, for example, our unemployed — by the decisions that have been made in this Chamber considerably earlier — pay at least 20% of their unemployment benefit or tax-like contributions. It's just too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u105	Mr President! Indeed, it is a matter of value choice. This so-called solidarity tax is the same for middle management as for senior management. Now, in fact, this solidarity comes in such a way that the middle management is committed to the top management and pays the same amount of tax. I would point out that the reduction in earnings extends to income of up to EUR 120000. When you claim that there is no money to be distributed in such a way that middle-income pensioners do not suffer in relation to wage earners, then you share half a billion euros, almost, for this reduction in earnings and not one cent for the correction of the taxation of a middle-income pensioner, in which now this government, including Mr Tolppanen's party, would now have full power to act and correct all the problems that have been experienced, but you only make them worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u106	Madam President! When we talk a lot about car tax and other things here, I think it would be quite essential to note that Finland is not a closed society — then your doctrines would play a hundred percent. But I ask you: how many Finnish companies are there today in Estonia? And it does not stop being Finnish companies and operating under the law of that country, but there are quite a few people who go there to live and buy car-free cars there. Some way too hard a tax policy leads those people who are able to pay taxes to drift out of here. It is no longer up to Estonia to go there, they go elsewhere in Europe. That too should be taken into account. On the other hand, if my opinion is correct, the car tax discount was made for the needy to buy safe cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u109	Mr President! This is an interesting question, though, when it is said here that this defect has existed before. I would now like to acknowledge in the Minutes the Vanhanen II Government and the previous bourgeois government that since then tax reductions have been made in such a way that they have affected all groups of income recipients, pensioners and workers alike. That has been the principle, and that is what all the parties have committed themselves to, and even before the elections this is what everyone was talking about — a coalition in the top ranks. It was probably the case that Mr Stubb, the finance minister, who refused to reply, said that this was the basic philosophy of the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u112	Madam President! As a reminder that the last government, I think, made 11 separate points in order to increase taxation on high incomes. I think there's a place where that moderation comes in too. Finland's competitiveness or income transfers cannot be corrected by not making structural changes, we do not accept any such change that reduces these unit labour costs, but we only increase taxes and think that it will improve Finland's competitiveness. The biggest problem does not get out of hand because we refuse to make structural changes, we always raise taxes, because it is either the tax-paying group that goes away or it takes away its capital.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u113	Mr President! Mr Estilä’s line that the car tax reduction was made for the poor is quite news here — probably the unemployed who are now being cut off from unemployment benefit are very grateful that, if they could afford it, they could buy cars. Mr President! In this respect, Mr Eestilä is right that the last government made its tax decision so that the taxation of low incomes was reduced and the taxation of high incomes was tightened. Fairness was brought, income differentials were narrowed through taxation. Unfortunately, this is not what the current government is doing, and that is what this criticism is all about. Mr Tolppanen is quite right that the taxation of the unemployed is still too high for those in employment. And the basic deduction is the element that significantly sought to reduce this during the last government. But what the government is doing now: an increase of EUR 50 for the basic deduction and all the drinks for the reduction in earnings that will increase, Mr Tolppanen, precisely the difference you are criticising. The government you represent will raise those who work
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u114	Madam President! I am rather confused about the strength of the left-wing opposition here to defend the car tax, and I am sure there will be a proposal to raise the car tax on the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u117	Madam President! This is a big day of surprises once and for all. Surprising answers have come out, first of all that the basic philosophy of the Coalition Party has now changed and that the Coalition Party accepts that pensioners have a higher tax burden than employees. Another surprising thing that came out of Mr Tolppanen’s speech was that the Finns of Peru apparently now do not know what these tax proposals mean. These will now reopen this tax gap. You will have to answer these questions to the pensioners of Hervannan Siwa there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u120	Mr President! After all, the car tax is now reduced by 100 million. The fee will go up by 100 million. So that net is 100 million. I have calculated that the Socialist Party has already sold this for five different purposes at least. It's always the car tax that's used to finance. This isn't how it works. In your time, all the reforms were left undone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u121	Mr President! It's getting a lot of negatives and pros, isn't it? When I'm here...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u130	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma is very surprised that not all the objectives and ideas of taxation presented by the Convention in the run-up to the elections were included in the Sipilä Government's programme. But I can tell you, Mr Heinäluoma, that this often happens in government negotiations, when there are many parties, that all the objectives set before the elections, I would like to say to Mr Tolppa that the fact that the same result for a worker is more than for an unemployed person who receives the same income is quite right and encourages work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u131	Mr President! This was a good and clarifying speech from Mrs Zyskowicz. He told me that during the government negotiations, the coalition sold the low- and middle-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u134	Representatives Kalli and Harakka and then Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u135	Mr President! In principle, the reduction in the car tax can be justified by the fact that it affects road safety. There will be fewer accidents, fewer people will be cared for, and thus society as a whole will benefit. But with interest I will wait when the SDP brings its own alternative budget and makes it a compensation of 150 million to pensioners and does not pass it on to the informal economy and not to debt-taking, but to some kind of savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u138	Madam President! The opposition is always required to have alternatives, and that is what we have tried to do. When Mr Heinäluoma offered a hand in cooperation with the government and suggested that 15 million of the car tax rebates could be invested in public transport, Minister Stubb had quite a heart attack on this and used the argument that he was not in the habit of earmarking tax revenue. But then the government reduced this ceiling on the solidarity tax to 72,000 and has now advertised it as a big gesture. But as a justification, Mr Stubb then used the fact that the influx of refugees also meant that the most high incomed people would have to deal with it, so this money was earmarked for it. It turned out that the happier you cut off the low-income ones, the more reluctant you have had to ask even some of the well-earned to volunteer. I'm sorry it's so hard for you,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u139	Then Minister Stubb, five minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u140	Madam President! First of all, thank you to the representatives for a colorful and good debate. I was going to split my own response into two parts, first of all to try to specify our general tax policy line and then to answer a few more specific questions. From this general line: I have noticed, for the first time since I was Minister of Finance, that if there is something that gives a lot of feedback and a lot of ideas, it is tax policy. In particular, Mr Rinne, Mr Heinäluoma, both former finance ministers, know that the box of ideas is full and there will be many. Tax policy is, of course, a rather difficult swingboard in the sense that when you take away from one, it suddenly moves on to another, and that is why the idea of these eartags, which have been talked about a lot: we are trying to avoid it, but of course the underlying work is being done. What are the two objectives of our taxation? The first objective is simple, it is fiscal, i.e. to collect as much revenue as possible for the expenditure used. And unfortunately this year we have failed: we have raised a tax, tax-type income of 49.1 billion, and we will again spend 54.1 billion, i.e. some 5 billion on the frost. And the other one isn't... The big development that we are pursuing in our taxation is that the system would be simple, but of course it is not. The tax system is very complex today. Another general development line is that we have a sustainable, broad base and hence low tax collection, but I think it is worth being quite honest here and saying that, unfortunately, Finland currently has one of the highest global tax rates in the world, almost 45%, when the OECD average is around... Then we come to these detailed questions — and Mrs Feldt-Ranna's apologies, if I have looked, but I will also use the answers to make a perfectly normal rung from which I saw. One of the key issues, which I think was rightly and very well addressed, was the issue of pensioners. I went to our tables to check what the situation is, and perhaps the direct answer to this is that the reduction in earnings affects only employees. So the basic philosophy is that we invest in measures that increase activity and work, while on the pensioner side it does not necessarily do so. So we are trying to encourage work. What was the solution? This solution was one where, at this stage, the tax rate on pension income is more stringent than the tax rate on wage income of over 53 years of age by no more than 0.4 percentage points in the income gap between 18000 and 23500, while the tax rate on pension income between 24000 and 28000 is less than or equal to 0.3 percentage points higher than the wage income tax rate. Is this too much? Yes, it is 0.3% too much in the second table, and it is 0.4% too much in the first. Add to this the fact that when income exceeds EUR 19000 per year, pension income is taxed more sharply than wage income. We in the government are constantly trying to monitor this situation and ensure that there is no too great a tear. Is it going to happen now, as Mr Heinäluoma said? Yes, it's happening, but we have... [Representative of Heinäluomali turned over to the back ] — — — — Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u141	Two or three replies, but no more. The minister may have that much time here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u142	Mr President! Election vows are important, on the basis of which voters make their choices. This is a serious question for democracy that election promises are being so badly betrayed. We have rightly criticised the Finns of Peru for betraying election promises. There is now also a very large fraud of electoral promises in the case of pensioners. This applies not only to pensioners on low and medium incomes, but also to pensioners on high incomes who are probably more likely to have voted for the majority. That is what I am asking for, Mr Stubb, for an answer from you: how do you comment on this commitment to democracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u143	Let us take four questions and then the Minister. And then we will continue the debate without a minister, because he has an appointment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u144	Mr President! What makes domestic demand, employment and investment better is that people have purchasing power. Now the government is cutting people's purchasing power from wage earners with forced wage cuts. Moreover, these tax solutions do not make it easier for those with the lowest income — pensioners, unemployed — who spend every euro and every cent on domestic demand. This affects that when people lose their purchasing power, small entrepreneurs suffer, those who employ the majority of people, themselves and some friend. It is quite interesting that, at the same time, the government is putting EUR 200 million in the reduction of the car tax, which is a stimulus to the international car industry. Yes, we believe that the stimulus should come to domestic small, hard-working entrepreneurs by improving the purchasing power of low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u145	Mr President! I am surprised at the fact that it is also acceptable here on a small scale that the taxation of unemployment should be kept high because the unemployed go to work. I can tell you that no tax rate employs any single unemployed — none.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u148	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen's speech gave a small impression that the number of jobs would be constant — it is not, of course, but that we need more jobs. So what is the best protection for the poor, and what is the best protection for a low - income pensioner? Yes, it is that the economy of this country is being balanced, that new jobs are being created, that jobs are being created, that we have more tax revenue, and that will enable us to keep to these services, which are enjoyed by both children and the elderly. A little attention has been paid to the fact that this government has also made a decision that the Yle-tax will be abolished from the lowest incomes and will also help some pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u151	Mr President! Asking any economist, everyone says that if a low and middle income pensioner has some money, he is more likely to spend it than a high income, whether he is a pensioner or a worker. I am not worried about these pensioners, who earn EUR 100,000 a year, they can manage — here or in Portugal, both — but I am concerned about these pensioners on low and medium incomes. This group, which earns it between EUR 1500 and EUR 1,600 and has very little or no other income, this government line makes a payment, for them you run out of money, despite the fact that if they had that money they would be more likely to use it for domestic employment, to use Finnish services, and thus we would have more people at work. This is a tough line, and you have just the opposite message before the elections, Mr Coalition Party — just the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u152	And yet the representatives of Zyskowicz and Kiuru, and then the minister, for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u153	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen replied to me and, like Mr Heinonen, I would have said that the number of jobs is not constant. However, in my previous speech, I did not say, contrary to what Mr Tolppanen said, that they would go to work. Instead, I pointed out an important starting point in principle in my view that if the same level of income were to be obtained, on the one hand, by working at the same level and on the other hand by means of unemployment and other social security on the other, I think that it is right and proper — and let this be the choice of values — for those who receive it by working for the same money to be left in the hands of a little more than for those who receive it as unemployment and other social security. In my opinion, this is an important starting point in principle and is an incentive to work. That does not mean that the unemployed are somehow responsible for their situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u154	Mr President! What we share in this debate is that we want to balance the economy and we want to manage employment in such a way that more jobs are created, but we disagree on the means. I think it would have been fair for you to have announced before the elections that you are going to reduce the purchasing power of small and medium-income Finns in a way that will lead to the absence of the employment that is now being pursued here. That is why I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, if you have actually made statements about all your plans affecting purchasing power, in what way this will lead in a completely different direction. For example, in this case of pensioners, I think it would have been fair for you to tell Finnish pensioners in advance that their taxes will not be at the same level as employees. We did a huge amount of work last season with this group, the parliamentary group, that this taxation would be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u155	At this point, Minister Stubb will be at the scene for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u157	Thank you. — We shall continue the debate here for a little while and then proceed to the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u158	Mr President! First of all, it is good that the Minister of Finance now clearly acknowledged that, according to your proposal, the taxation of pensioners in relation to income tax for those who earn the same amount will be tightened. But the essential point here was that you said that you were trying to close this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u161	Well, by way of exception, the Minister will be given the floor immediately because I understand that immediately after that he will leave here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u162	Mr President! This was such an important speech that I think it is necessary to clarify this answer. So reach out, avoid a tear: it is clear that we are seeking fair treatment and we are trying to find a solution to this too. At present, the gap in the income categories I mentioned earlier is between 0.3% and 0.4%. We will make sure that this does not increase further, and we will try to ensure that no one increases their tax rate during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u163	Now we'll go on for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u164	Mr President! This was a very important point. The Minister responded to my own interlude when you told me that in 2017 you were going to make tax decisions. I screamed that it was only about employees. You said it was for everyone. This is good news for pensioners. But until now, when the government has talked about a social contract, the creation of a moderate wage settlement, the government has repeatedly stated that this will be offset by clear, large income tax reductions for employees in 2017 as a condition for the creation of a social contract. If this line now changes, that tax cuts will also be made for low-income pensioners and apply to all unemployed people, then this is very good news, but stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u165	Mr President! I also hope that future solutions, of course, will include low-income pensioners and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u168	Mr President! I have to say that I was completely lost: just when the assembly and the centre told me that this is a conscious and very wise policy, that pensioners are being taxed more heavily than employees, then the Minister for Finance says: "Well, a silly reflection, we are actually trying to correct this. First we'll make it worse in next year's taxation, but then 2017." And then, when he gives a new report of correction, he declares that 'no, really, we are trying to act in such a way that the difference does not increase'. We now have three positions on behalf of the government in a rather brief debate, partly by the same people. I think it would be reasonable to hear one more bourgeois present, Mr Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u169	Congressman Zyskowicz versus the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u170	Mr President! First of all, we have not said that the solution in the Government Programme negotiations is a choice of values. We have said, or I myself have said, for example, that compromises will have to be made in the negotiations on the Government Programme, as everyone on the ground knows. This solution, that this time we went through a reduction in earnings, was a compromise agreed in the Government Programme negotiations. As far as this so-called correction is concerned, the Government has agreed that if the objectives of improving competitiveness and thereby balancing central government finances are achieved as planned, a new EUR 1 billion reduction in income tax will be made in 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u173	Now we move on to the list of speakers who have been asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u174	Mr President! Good opposition and good government representative! In fact, there are two of you here, so that Mrs Zyskowicz is not entirely alone in this. I am sorry that Mr Stubb left — he was supposed to meet us in the Committee on Finance, and there are many of us here. We are happy to meet in the spirit of work, we do not have to go to the state representation hall. But each one chooses where he wants to be. I would like to say a few words about this amnesty law for tax criminals, which is an extremely unsuccessful and unfortunate government proposal and which puts Finland in the wrong company in this time and in this European framework. Its estimated tax revenue is between EUR 1 and 10 million, and we who understand the zeros here,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u177	Mr President! There has already been a long debate here, and for my part I drew attention to this treatment of pensioners. Of this, we may have to conclude that these three lines have now remained in force and the situation is quite worrying. I do not see that the government has done the right thing here either. Let it be said that this decision has been made, knowingly, completely contrary to those electoral promises, and I find that to be an unfortunate point in every respect. If I am to speak a little more generally about these other lines, what are these government tax packages about now, then first of all I would like to say that there was talk of tax fairness here. It is, of course, very important to all of us Social Democrats, and that is why we have been asking all the time and have always said that the good people must also take part in these efforts. It was quite shocking at the beginning of this parliamentary term when it seemed that there was no measure to involve the good people. In the opposition, the Social Democrats spoke hard about this and as a result these very minor changes in solidarity taxes or capital taxes came. But if we are honest now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, then this is totally, you could say, crumbs, what this responsibility is now for the good people. That is why the alternative budget, which has already been mentioned here, will also pay close attention to this line of tax justice, with the greater involvement of those with the best income. President! To this end, perhaps from the car tax that arose here in the debate, it has to be said that even this turned out to be the case that the Finns originally promised to abolish the car tax as a whole. Well, at least this wasn't done. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : May I ask your speaker to speak (EeroHeinäluoma : Closer to the President!)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u182	Mr President! It was very important that these tax laws were brought into a separate debate in Parliament because they are an important whole both in the government's policy and then in people's everyday lives. This debate up to now shows that it is indeed time to take a close look at these arguments of the government's proposal and what they mean to people. When the government has such a huge package that it is doing, there is a great risk that it will go unnoticed by quite major changes to the past. There is cause for concern about this general government line of taxation, because this is a bad line for the average low and middle income, which is a matter for the whole. This is also not a coherent line. Contrary to what is said, these speeches about making the right decisions in terms of employment are not in the process of being implemented, because employment is important in terms of how people are treated with low and average incomes, whether they are employed or without work or retired. In all cases, the money used when tax reductions are made, for tax reductions here at the end of low and medium incomes, comes from there for consumption, and that is what every economist and all international and domestic studies tell us. But apart from this employment, it is also a question of justice, to which Mr Viitanen here earlier rightly and rightly pointed out. Interesting is the one thing that has been done here quite carefully in the afternoon from this point of view of justice. It concerns the tax ratio between pensioners and employed persons. This was something that all parties agreed before the elections that the income of pensioners should not be taxed more tightly than that of a working person, and that should be the guiding principle, at least now, up to the income of EUR 100,000. What happens after that if someone receives a pension of more than EUR 100,000 — I think it is not quite a big issue of justice. But it contains these people on a monthly pension of EUR 1000 and EUR 2000, of whom the government has now coldly announced that it will increase the tax burden on these retired people in relation to the taxation of employees, which is quite different from what was said before the elections. Of course, we would be happy to take this through without anyone talking about it at all, and then we would say, "That's funny, that's what happened." But that is not the way it should go, but this must be carefully looked at in Parliament and look at these income-sharing effects for the various population groups and then ask for expert assessments and assess how many representatives will ultimately take this into their own names. It is justified to propose amendments in this respect and to make justice also for the pensioners. A million and a half pensioners did have many friends before the election, but now they are no longer seen anywhere on the right side of the hall, which seems to be more or less elected to the government. In other words, cuts in the housing allowance for pensioners, cuts in the index of national pensions next year, and then this tax treatment for pensioners is consistent with the fact that they all go to the pensioner's purse, in all these matters. And I understand that it is embarrassing to be there to remind you of what has been promised before the elections, but it is as Mr Rinne said earlier in that regard that promises must be made for the functioning and credibility of democracy and democracy that are genuinely committed to. Then, when they are thrown coldly into the scrap heap and say that it is even a good new philosophy, what was before the basic philosophy turns 180 degrees into a completely new philosophy that overturns the previous one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u185	Next, Mr Sarkkinen. — I would like to draw attention to the fact that, now that there is no limit of 5 minutes, this maximum recommendation is now 10 minutes. And within that time limit, the previous speech remained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u186	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today on the allocation of tax reductions and the difference between pensioners and workers' taxes. This is important, of course, for pensioners' livelihoods, but also for income differentials. In Sweden, income inequality has increased very rapidly in recent years, and one of the reasons for this is that in Sweden tax reductions have been specifically targeted at income tax and have then led to an increase in the tax burden on pensioners and recipients of social assistance. It would be important to take this into account, and these income-sharing effects should always be taken into account when making this tax policy at all times. But then I will raise an energy tax, which has not really been discussed during this debate. Mining has only been in the normal electricity tax category since the beginning of 2015. It was brought to it by a 2014 decision. It is a turbulent policy that mining is now to be reclassified to the reduced electricity tax category and to the tax refund for energy-intensive industries. In practice, this means a tax reduction for mining, with an annual cost of around EUR 27 million. There has been much talk in Finland that we cannot be just a colony of the global economy, from which we can mine ores at a lower price. There has been talk of the need for some kind of mining tax, for example. The increase in the normal electricity tax category by decision of 2014 acted as a mining tax. In my view, it is only reasonable that the extraction of national wealth should be compensated by taxation on the part of society. There is nothing wrong with mining, as long as it also benefits society through tax revenues. I therefore see that there would be a better industrial policy to direct this money, which is now being given to the reduction in the mining tax, for example, to support research, development and innovation activities and to support the employment potential of small entrepreneurs. Now, however, the government is cutting very much from R & D funding, especially from Tekes. As a result, we will have fewer innovations in Finland, fewer products to sell, less future economic growth, fewer new jobs. That, of course, is the choice of values. But then for this effective repentance. After all, this seems like a free card for very rich tax evaders just before the automatic exchange of tax information comes into effect in a few years' time, and at the same time the resources to combat the black economy are being cut. It does make the public feel interesting that whose interests this policy is in the right direction. This reduction in car tax is another confusing point in this tax package: making a regressive reduction in car tax, EUR 200 million, and at the same time raising the tax on car use, and everyone pays this tax on car use. But this car tax discount on the purchase of a new car will benefit mainly those on good income who can afford to buy new cars. We all know — or hopefully we do — that low-income families, low-wage sectors, unemployed, low-income pensioners cannot afford to buy new cars. And while we are also cutting off train lines, public transport, this is a very strange choice of values from the government. But perhaps the diversity of the electorate explains what value choices are made. Yesterday, for example, I was visiting unemployed people in Raahe, and they raised this point, for example, that they feel that unemployment benefit is unfair — as it is — so high a tax. No one has ever come to me in the polls or there, when people meet, to say that this car tax is high, but rather this high tax on unemployment and social aid, which is perceived to be unfair. But indeed: perhaps the diversity of the electorate will explain these choices of value.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u187	Mr President! I was also thinking of saying a few words about this effective repentance. After all, this law is a "law on self-declaration of taxation", which is a rather mystical term which does not readily open up. But the idea is that voluntary notification of tax evasion can avoid criminal sanctions, which is called effective repentance. I am very critical of this proposal from the point of view of equality. On the other hand, if this is to make money for the state quickly, as Mr Stubb said in his presentation, there are expectations that EUR 10 million will be made available to the state's treasury through this. This is therefore a fixed-term law under which a natural or domestic estate would avoid criminal penalties for tax fraud when notifying the Tax Administration on its own initiative of taxable income or assets under inheritance tax and gift tax law that were not taxed under the Income Tax Act. The change to the current situation is great. Since Finland has not provided for the possibility of effective repentance in taxation, it has not been possible to guarantee protection against criminal sanctions for the taxpayer in its current state. What this criticism is all about is that it offers rich tax evaders who have hidden funds abroad their own way of getting away from the consequences and that this puts in a different position the usual hiders of domestic incomes. Why should a separate amnesty law be laid down for these hiders, now that the wealth is hidden abroad, after the funds have been revealed? Should it not be decided on criminal proceedings in cases of self-correction of hidden funds now revealed, in accordance with the normal procedure? It can be said that there have also been quite a number of experts who have criticised this motion. The Finnish NGO Finnwatch considered the proposal problematic in terms of equality, and Erkki Laukkanen, the leader of the Finnish Transparency International project on financial market transparency, also considers this act of amnesty problematic. "The tax evader is likely to continue to A pardon would save them from criminal consequences and publicity," says Laukkanen. Well, it remains to be seen in the future how many people take up this possibility of effective repentance and how much tax revenue this will generate for our country. But I also have to say here that a long way has gone since the SMP's Veikko Vennamo crime lords had to be disciplined, now that the criminals are being handed a return ticket without consequences. It is difficult to justify this. As far as that grey economy is concerned, I would say that EUR 1.3 million has also been allocated to financial prosecutors, and now this money is also going to disappear. It has been calculated that this input from financial prosecutors has brought EUR 100 million through the confiscation to the state treasury to increase revenue. It does not quite make sense that this output-input ratio is not profitable. And like the previous speakers, I would like to see this, the fight against the shadow economy, continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u188	Mr President! The two key issues of tax policy concern the impact on the purchasing power of citizens and the impact on the incentive to work. In particular, the government justifies a reduction in labour income for employees by claiming that this will increase the incentive to work. Mr Kalli said, perhaps most clearly, that this is what is at stake and that the taxation of pensioners does not have an impact on the incentive to work. With the effect of tax reductions on purchasing power, the government does not, strangely enough, speak in this context. Why isn't he talking? Because there is no desire to extend the debate to the taxation of pensioners. However, reducing the tax burden on pensioners would not be money thrown into a black hole. Money saved from taxation would go to domestic consumption as an increase in purchasing power. Its effects would be stimulating for the domestic market. Even if there was no incentive to work in reducing the tax burden on pensioners, it would have significant employment effects. Mr President! By placing pensioners under a higher tax burden than employees, the government is speeding up the division of the nation. This puts at risk the key mental resources of the nation when confidence between different populations is being undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u189	Mr President! The big blue thread in next year's tax solutions is that taxation does not tighten up and economic and fiscal policy supports growth, work and entrepreneurship, which means that the goal is to start catching up with that goal of 110,000 new jobs. It has to be done in these difficult times, but these measures, which support work and entrepreneurship, have an opportunity to do so. In this tax solution next year, there are three key points: lower taxation for people with low and middle incomes; no tax on labour for the majority of Finns; and a reduction in the solidarity tax for everyone who earns more than 72,000. And when this discussion has taken place and it is claimed that this will not increase taxation for those earning 72,000, this is the calculation made by the Taxpayers on 28 September of the Government's budget proposal "Taxes and Purchasing Power 2015-2016", and this assumption only takes into account the deductions made on its own by an employee under 53 years of age, annual earnings with holiday money, monthly salary 12.5 times, average municipal and ecclesiastical tax rates in 2015, revisions to the tax bases corresponding to the increase in earnings in 2016, an increase of EUR 450 million in the reduction in labour income tax deductions next year, a reduction in the highest level of the state income tax rate, i.e. this so-called solidarity tax rate to EUR 72300, and then the projected changes in social insurance contributions have been taken into account, an increase of EUR 450 million in the unemployment insurance premium for 2016. This clearly shows that the taxation of low-income earners will be reduced: the taxation of those who earn EUR 2171 per month will be reduced, the taxation of those who earn EUR 3256 per month will be reduced, but the taxation of those who earn EUR 5427 per month will be tightened, the taxation of those who earn EUR 8684 per month will be tightened. In other words, it is good to correct this in the parliamentary minutes too, the truth about the way in which the reduction in labour income and then the change in the lower limit of this solidarity tax affect the fact that the high incomes are involved in these projects with an even greater contribution. And also the debate that has been said here that this would not affect those who have already been subject to the solidarity tax: yes, it will. So now they are also paying this increased tax on the proportion that they have previously received under that new limit of solidarity tax or from it to the present limit. Mr President! Then the big carrot here is, of course, that if these measures succeed and growth is achieved and the country grows, employment will develop, the government has promised in 2017 to do a very significant EUR 1 billion reduction in taxes on labour, which would target pensioners as well as workers. It is a good goal, which together is worth pursuing for all of us Finns. Mr President! Finally, on car taxation: I am also a little self-critical that this car tax solution does not necessarily make the most sense in this situation. I myself represented a thinking model in which the car tax would have been completely abolished, but certainly not that we would have lost the billion that the car tax would have produced for us, but it would have been possible to recover it by raising the annual vehicle tax. We have about 3 million cars in Finland, the current annual tax is EUR 200, and if the basic vehicle tax had been raised from around 200 to 350, EUR 400, then the accumulation would have increased from EUR 500 to EUR 600 million to EUR 1.5 billion, and this difference would have been achieved. And that total abolition of car tax would actually make it easier for our car fleet to become younger, more ecological and safer. And yes, the fact is that this change to the car tax, which is now being made, will make it easier for every Finnish car owner. In other words, it will eventually affect all the cars we have, as the price of new cars will fall. And that the Minutes do not leave a false picture of how Mr Heinäluoma described this car tax, this reduction is specifically targeted at those small, cheap, low-emission cars, and there the biggest discount is precisely so that as many Finns as possible benefit from it. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the government for the decision to abolish the High Tax also from the low-income group, an even larger number. It's a good thing for a lot of pensioners and a little money for a living.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u190	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u191	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u192	Mr President! The aim of this proposal, in accordance with the Government Programme, is to reduce the car tax in favour of low-emission cars during the Government term so that the tax revenue effect at the 2019 level is approximately EUR 200 million. The tax reduction would clearly focus on low-emission cars. I think this is very sensible, even if I would rather drive a new Mustang than a Polo. However, according to this decision, I can still drive any car. I'm just paying more for the use of a larger-emission vehicle. I still can't afford a new car. Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is also to amend the tax provisions of cars imported when used in accordance with the requirements of Union law in such a way as to ensure non-discriminatory tax treatment of imported cars used in all situations. I have waited a long time for this change because the former practice has clearly discriminated against the buyer of the car in taxation. In addition, car taxation of imported vehicles which have been subject to excessive tax may be adjusted in accordance with the law proposed from 1 January 2012. This should, in my opinion, include the words'may be replaced by a'situated'. However, I think the proposal as a whole is a good one. For example, I have been contacted from the bar in Sevettijärvi in the north, and I believe that they will also accept this decision among themselves there. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u193	Mr President! We're in the swamp with this car tax sale. As noted above, this was largely the result of the vows made by the Finns, in which the party promised a car tax sale of approximately EUR 900 million. Now this car tax was reduced to a cosmetic discount for those who can afford to buy a new car, but the same money is being collected back from ordinary tramps as a vehicle tax, and the sufferers are those who need a lot of cars on low and medium incomes, especially in rural areas. From now on, the vehicle tax will increase by approximately EUR 30 per year. Indeed, Mr Heinonen spoke about this, that this car tax rate is now on these low-emission and low-cost cars, but it does not matter whether it is small or large if it cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u194	Mr President! What I said in my own speech is that when the purchase price of a new car is reduced, it also affects the price of old cars. This means that everyone who in Finland in general needs a car and, on the other hand, everyone who can buy it will naturally benefit from this. The prices of all cars, both new and old, will fall, and with this proposal it will be precisely so that small and low-emission cars are the ones that will benefit from this advantage, and that benefit will come to both new and second-hand cars in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u195	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u196	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u197	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 6 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u198	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u199	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u200	Mr President! This is, therefore, a reform of the conversion penalty and a repeal of the provisions on the fine. The legislation on the extension of the use of the conversion penalty laid down in June 2015 is proposed to be withdrawn in this proposal. The proposal to withdraw the reform and repeal the laws is primarily due to economic reasons. The reform has also been criticised and has not been regarded as sufficiently effective in terms of its high costs. In the decision on the spending limits last spring, an appropriation of EUR 12.4 million was allocated to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to implement the change. Due to the weak economic situation of the State, the appropriation has now been removed from the budgetary plan for 2016-2019. The reform cannot be carried out without an allocation. The new legislation on the extension of the use of the fine is not yet in force. It was to enter into force at the same time as the law imposing the fine and the fine. The entry into force will be governed by a separate law and will depend on the completion of the judicial and police information systems. According to the proposed amendment of the law, the police should refer the offence to the District Court when a person who has repeatedly received a fine can be considered as being negligent of the prohibitions and orders of the law. The assessment of indifference is based on the repetition and similarity of previous crimes. If, within a year, a person has been fined at least three times for similar offences, a new offence would be dealt with in court. The District Court could convert the fine into imprisonment if the fine was not recovered. The fines imposed by the courts can be converted into imprisonment, but the fines imposed by the police are not. The Government's proposal stresses that, despite the abolition of the reform, there is still the possibility of imposing a conversion penalty for the fine. There are about 50 prisoners who pay the conversion penalty alone every day. In addition, part of those sentenced to prison are also subject to the conversion penalty of the fine. According to the current provisions, the police can refer the matter to a court instead of a penalty procedure. This is often the case, for example, of shoplifting offenders. In this regard, the police’s instructions on fines have been explicitly clarified. In addition, the plaintiff may refuse to deal with the case in criminal proceedings and thus refer the case to the Court of Justice. As a result of the high cost of the conversion system, the aim is to focus on preventive measures, in particular through the fight against crime and the development of social support services. The Ministry of Justice has also examined various options for a conversion sentence to be enforced in prison. An experiment has been launched at the Criminal Sanctions Agency in which prisoners carrying out the conversion penalty are placed in a substance abuse rehabilitation centre or in assisted housing services during the execution of the sentence. Positive feedback has been received from the operating model. The simplification of the conversion penalty procedure will also be clarified in accordance with the Parliament’s statement of March 2015. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u201	Mr President! As the Minister of Justice, Lindström, has just said, the fines imposed by the courts are now convertible into imprisonment, but the fines imposed by the police are not. According to police and prosecution estimates, there are about 25,000 such offenders who ignore the law’s commands and prohibitions each year. In most cases, acts are shoplifting or attempted theft, minor fraud, and transport of vehicles without entitlement or other traffic offences. The fact that the fines imposed by the police could not be converted into imprisonment has been generally considered to be contrary to the sense of justice, since the person who has not paid the fine may in practice not be punished. This has been a clear flaw since 2008. There has also been a risk that nothing will stop a person’s criminal cycle. I consider this to be a very important point as well. It is currently possible to impose a conversion penalty on fines that have been convicted by the court. As the Minister of Justice has just said, there are about 50 of these fine conversion penalties on a daily basis. A proportion of those serving prison sentences are also subject to the conversion penalty of a fine, which often accumulates in the same persons. According to the police’s new 2014 Leniency Guidelines, fines will be brought before the courts in situations where the person who has repeatedly committed similar offences is involved. In addition, the plaintiff, such as the trader, has the possibility of refusing to accept the use of the penalty procedure and to refer the matter to the court. This is also what some of the plaintiffs do automatically, and I think this is a good practice. More could even be recommended for practical expansion, even though it employs the official machinery and the police. At least this would improve the party’s sense of justice. The Parliament is now considering a bill which would clearly increase the number of prisoners carrying out the conversion penalty. Unfortunately, we cannot afford this unless the prisoners are released from the other. One prisoner pays about 200 euros a day to society and 73,000 euros a year. Controlled probation is in place, but I think it is just an artificial way of saving money and the demands for admission of prisoners entering an open prison are already frighteningly low. In 2014, 615 prisoners were placed in the controlled test release. Therefore, I do not believe that controlled test freedom can be increased, because it is already endangering the security of our society. Mr President! 1.7.2015 According to statistics of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, 3007 prisoners were present in Finland. Of them, 481 were foreigners, or about 16 per cent. Internationalisation is thus reflected in the increasing nationalities of foreign prisoners in prisons. At the moment, there are about 60 citizens. The largest groups of foreign prisoners are Estonians, 25 per cent, Russians, around 7.6 per cent, Iraqis, around 7.2 per cent, and Lithuanians, around 6.5 per cent, as well as Romanians and Somalis, at 4.7 per cent. The major crime groups and the main causes are drug offences of about 50 percent and theft offences of about 16 percent. Also, crimes against life and health as well as crimes of chastity show up at about 10 percent. Mr President! Under the Foreigners' Act, a foreign prisoner may under certain conditions be deported to his or her own country for his or her imprisonment. I warmly recommend the return of foreigners to safe countries of origin — and, in particular, to prison sentences — and not expulsion only after the punishment has been carried out. With this measure, we would save 73,000 euros each year for each prisoner. That would be a lot of money for 100 deportees already.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u202	Mr President! In 2008, Parliament abolished the conversion of the fine. I was there to accept it, and I raise my hand up: it was a mistake. As a result, shoplifting increased significantly. At the moment we have some 25,000 repeated shoplifters who, therefore, repeatedly steal from the store, fail to pay for their purchases. This will cause some EUR 400 million for our trade, a decrease of up to EUR 500 million has been mentioned. It means 80 euros for each Finn from a baby to a grandfather, so every Finn currently pays 80 euros per year for shoplifters. Now, the effect of this conversion of the fine — which would not have been the ideal change of the fine of the old age — would have been 12,4 million. If you compare it now with what the store loses, it is, of course, to some extent the idea that here you take your hand out of your pocket and put it back in your store pocket. I understand that the trade, the traders, the entrepreneurs are upset about this, that we can, for the second time, export goods from the trade, shoplift, and that the responsibility for them lies behind a very long road. However, I welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, has taken steps to ensure that everyone is held responsible for their own crimes, and the police's instructions on fines have been clarified, but I hope that we will continue to make decisive progress towards a certain punishment for every offender in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u203	Mr President! I am surprised at this Government's squirming policy in this judicial policy and the fact that the government is already proposing to withdraw the amendment to the law on the extension of the use of the conversion penalty imposed in June 2015. As far as the predictability of the legislation is concerned, I find it problematic that the government splashes there and here and now suddenly announces that it will withdraw the law that has already been drafted. I myself have a long history of this conversion of the fine. I myself have modified the fines in the District Court, participated in this preparatory work for 2008, as well as in the preparations for the last election, and I can say that this withdrawal has been justified and the Minister, above all, justified the financial reasons, but these cost implications of the law were well known when the law was drafted last season. They didn't come as a surprise. In December 2014, our local assistants reported: "The end of Integrity: the conversion of the fine into imprisonment once again". Well, this joy was quite short-lived, and now the Federation of Commerce announced that it was dismayed by the cancellation of the return of this conversion penalty. I also find it extraordinary that this reform was specifically driven by the coalition during the last period like a snake in a gun and now the sound of the bell has changed. The law is considered bureaucratic and complex, and at the same time as the law is being buried by the government, the co-chairman of the legislative committee, Mr Tolvanen, calls here in Parliament for action to be taken to prepare compensatory measures, not in this evening's sitting, but in the previous, last week's session.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u205	Mr President! I share Mr Ojala-Niemela's concern that there is now quite a bit of legislation around the legislation — the law has not yet entered into force when it is being amended. Yes, there is this concern which has arisen here in these speeches: if there is a person who shows complete disregard for the law and then does not pay these fines, how can his conduct be interfered with? At some point I saw one saying that the so - called beer is now, as it were, being accepted in some way. In other words, when it is not addressed, surely this type of unpleasant phenomena will then multiply. However, when reference was made to the Parliament’s decision on this cancellation of the conversion penalty for 2008, Parliament’s efforts required that the use of the penalty procedure be excluded from situations where the offender’s conduct has shown disregard for the prohibitions and orders of the law. This has always been a concern that, if we do not intervene in any way in these situations, this cannot be done as legislators. I think it is extremely important that this reform, which was carried out during the last period and which was then praised and which was said that this is now the right direction, should indeed be maintained and allowed to go forward in the legislation. These figures came up here. 400 million from trade, or 12.4 million would be put into effect last season's legislation. After all, it is absolutely certain that the reform will cost some money, but I think it is important to encourage a legal, respectable way of life. There is always a price to be paid for maintaining these values.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u206	The debate is closed unless the Minister wishes to speak. — Minister, please, from the seat for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u207	Mr President! I accept this criticism and fully acknowledge that this cannot be justified by anything but the economy. That is quite frankly to be admitted, because now we are giving the signal that nothing is going to happen. That is why we really need to think about what other means we have to deal with this, and as soon as this economy, hopefully, comes into some sort of balance, come back to this debate, and then hopefully this will change. I myself believe that crimes must always be punished, and I certainly do not defend a procedure that has been recognised here. This was a performance this time, and I stand behind this, even though I don't like it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u208	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u209	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u210	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of the PeVM 2/2015 vp, it is decided at the sole reading of the Optional Protocol to the Convention and the explanation referred to in the Government proposal and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u211	The 15th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 3/2015 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the Protocol to the Convention and the explanation provided for in the Government proposal and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u212	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u213	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u214	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u215	For table setting, the 19th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u216	The 20th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-13-ps-49.u217	The 21st item will be presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 14 October 2015.
