ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you that the maximum length of both questions and answers is 1 minute in order to take up as many questions as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u2	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u3	Mr President! Finnish workplaces are currently in great need. The government is going to lower the wages of local nurses, police officers, firefighters, metalmen and shopkeepers without even being consulted on this issue. A young person working part-time at a restaurant is taking one month's salary a year from already small, slightly over EUR 1000 a month. People have risen against these government plans. They won't accept your policy of coercion. Tens of thousands of people will show it to you tomorrow. Minister of Labour Lindström, you said before the elections that if the Finns vote, you will get what you order. What do you answer to nurses and papermen now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u4	Mr President! Mr Lindtman is quite right that, in the run-up to the elections, every party spoke according to its own electoral programme, as well as the Finns of Peru. The party election programme is different from the government programme, as you well know. Why did we have to go through these surgeries? Because the Finnish economy plows so deep in the swamp. No one would want to go after a low-income, low-paid person, but the government has been forced to make hard, hard decisions, and I am actually wondering this question in the sense that I have withdrawn the option from the SDP: What's your alternative? How would you do these things without touching the interests of any group?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u7	Mr President! As I said earlier, we are forced to make heavy and unpleasant decisions. Then you also have to go to the wallet of groups whose wallets you would not want to enter. I have said things in the run-up to the elections, for which, of course, I now have to defend the government's line in the government, and that is how it is. The Government has only one line, and it is not a common line between the Finns of Finland, the Centre Party or the National Coalition Party, but it is a common line of the Government. We have to do this because our economy is so deep in the swamp, our exports plow, our public sector cannot be supported by exports. That's what this is all about. EUR 30 billion — there is no other way to deal with this than by means of hard work. We offered to make up the way twice, it didn't work out. Now we're here. The government has to move on. We don't have time to wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u8	Mr President! The government has made its own decisions here and now, but the government will also have the coming autumn and the following autumn. I would like to ask: have you thought about these coming autumns? In fact, since the 1940s, Finland has been making income policies in such a way that employers' organisations, workers' organisations and the government have been at one table, but now you have built a package in which competitiveness is built only at the cost of the work to which these cuts, which have been carried out in this Chamber, refer. Instead, extensive competitiveness is based on our taking care of knowledge, we support innovation, we practise smarter management, we organise work smartly. These elements have been lacking in your negotiations. Do you, Mr Lindström, believe that in the future these medicines will create wage moderation, social capital and agreement and even the local agreement that would require the confidence you have repeatedly referred to?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u9	Mr President! The Government Programme is a whole. It is based on the fact that every single one of the means that we have put in place is aimed at having 110,000 new jobs in this country at the end of this parliamentary term, an employment rate of 72%. It's the big picture. There are, then, a number of different ways within it that we will have to use. Some of them are nasty. It's not like anyone was hiding behind a tree to defend them. These are bad decisions, but at the same time we also have to make decisions in industrial policy, we are putting money into key projects to make this Finland rise. We are going to have to make economic changes and we are going to have to make structural changes. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u10	Mr President! As an impotent Member of Parliament, I dare say that the nurses are now angry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u13	Mr President! I still believe that the worker has earned his salary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u14	Mr President! This is a strange situation in which, after the elections, Mr Lindström, your speeches, like quite a few of your colleagues, have changed completely. Nevertheless, there has been no substantial change in the economic situation since last April. Now, a lot of people think that you've cheated a little by talking a little more than what you're doing now,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u17	Mr President! Perhaps this should now be restored to its scale: yes, by reducing the fairway fee and this package, in the other, we are talking about tens of millions in size, in the other billions. When we go to our competitor countries for a 15% competitiveness gap, this is 5% of that 15%. We need a wage moderation. And quite rightly, the representatives here said that we also need those productivity-enhancing measures, then there in companies and workplaces and marketing and new products and so on. All these measures are needed. Now there is such a misconception that this issue alone would solve all the problems. Of course, this is not the case. This is one part of a whole in which there is a much bigger issue. We have a EUR 10 billion sustainability gap, in which this is one small part.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u18	Mr President! Mr Soini, you have spoken a great deal about holiness in this Chamber too, and in June you also spoke about the saints: you said that Sunday allowances are sacred to you. I have a different idea of what's sacred. It's not sacred to eat the words. On top of that, you are cutting overtime payments, the sick person's own responsibility is being imported. And when it was noted that nurses suffered very much from these cuts, the right wing of the hall laughed here. What message does it send to these nurses who work hard? Mr President! On the other hand, the government does not want to interfere with the giant dividends or tax havens for which it would be possible to claim funds, but rather to cut wages. My question is for Prime Minister Sipilä. When you are always talking about Germany, Sweden and Denmark, tell us honestly: are the wage costs in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u19	Mr President! Competitiveness consists of many parts, among which price competitiveness and cost competitiveness are one part. We have fallen some 15% behind Germany, Sweden and Denmark with many indicators in terms of price competitiveness. There are huge differences between the different sectors. In Germany, for example, some work is currently flowing to Finland. I know that in engineering, for example, the situation is different. This was precisely the reason why we wanted to approach it through the social pact, because if we had been able to agree on a common goal there, it would have been possible to take account of these sectoral differences and seek competitiveness through a more balanced package. The means at the disposal of the government are far more brutal than what would be within collective agreements. I therefore continue to appeal to the social partners:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u20	Mr President! Last week, and also this week, we have been thinking about the gender implications of this whole package that you have presented. Last week I realised that we would have those effects this week. Still haven't seen them. This is a very big deal. Tomorrow very many Finns will protest against the government, and many of us will wonder how they will react to them. I personally believe that these labour market reforms are needed, but at least it remains unclear to me how the government has calculated these gender effects, how these affect particularly women-dominated sectors. Could the Prime Minister please open this up a little bit?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u21	Mr President! Of course, we will give these estimates at the pace of the legislative process. We made estimates of who is most affected by Sunday allowances, who is the most affected by cutting overtime pay, who is the most affected by holidays. But it all depends on what the final package is. There has been a lot of talk here about vaccination in low-paid, female-dominated jobs. As the Prime Minister said there, we are still open to proposals that would be softer and even this overall package. Unfortunately, the means, the legislative means, which we as democratic decision-makers had through labour law and working time legislation, were the ones we were able to do. Labour market organisations also have their own responsibilities. Let's hope there's some kind of softening act.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u22	Madam President! There is an emergency among Finnish workers — because there is an emergency among Finnish companies. We have 280,000 companies in Finland. Of these, 2500 are large companies, 275500 are small and medium-sized enterprises. And competitiveness is bad. It's been getting worse year after year. Order stocks are shrinking, cash flows are negative. Tens of thousands of companies are facing a serious situation and this will lead to an increase in unemployment. The tax revenue of the state is decreasing. We're about to be on the verge of disaster. I ask the government and the minister concerned that when we are in a situation like this — I know the answer to that, but I would like to open this package once again, that the people understand — why you had to make such decisions, which, for example, tax nurses. Why didn't you introduce the fact that you were?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u24	Mr President! We, of course, figured it out. There is no mention of holiday money in the legislation. We have no right to touch it without the possibility of legislation. We have to make a deal. And these have now been an example in public that if the holiday money were halved, it would replace almost half of that 5% package. 2.1% would have an impact on this whole. In other words, it would be possible to exclude this Sunday payment, halving overtime payments and making softer ones in these other matters. I admit that this would be a much better and fairer way. I am prepared to take this approach to this choice of means, but it requires that it be agreed together, and I am happy to accept its proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u25	Mr President! Yesterday, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech on television and, if I understood correctly, the Prime Minister suggested that a three-minute daily extension of working time could address this problem. If this is really true, you believe that three minutes of daily working time will be spent on this, if that is the government's objective, then I am prepared to use the network. I would like an answer here in front of Parliament. Then I would ask you also to answer Mr Arhinmäki's question, in which he asked for an explanation of your view of the wage level of the Germans and Swedes in relation to the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u26	Mr President! In this speech I said that the drop in this Sunday allowance from 100 to 75 percent could be replaced by an increase in working time of about three minutes a day. That is what I wanted to describe as a major problem. So this one way, Sunday supplement, off this list and replace us all with a day longer than three minutes. This is the magnitude we're talking about. The effect is about the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u28	Mr President! The government seems to think that the end justifies the means. But we must remember that people’s well-being is the goal that is being pursued here, and the economy is only a means of doing so. The fact that the government is prepared to use very poor and unfair means to achieve its objective of improving price-cost competitiveness is, in my view, ill-considered, because the risk now is that the appreciation and work ethic of the female-dominated sectors of the local carers, midwives, low-paid public sector will weaken and, at the same time, put pressure on wage increases in a year's time. You are causing confusion with this action, and then the intention certainly does not justify the means. My question is therefore: has the Prime Minister thought about how to get out of this? It is certainly clear that the social partners should be able to reach an agreement in which workers will also gain more fairness and be able to pursue price-cost competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u29	Mr President! An attempt was made to turn this package from May Day together with the social partners. This is an unusual situation when you have to agree on ways to improve cost competitiveness, go in a different direction than usual. I admit that this was an exceptional situation and a difficult negotiating situation, but when we did not even reach an agreement in this time period, it was quite clear that the government must act and move forward. I also believe that one of the key indicators of sustainable development is that we live by revenue and expenditure and do not pass on debt to future generations. This is very important to the government that we live by the principles of sustainable development, including government. What am I waiting for? I look forward to the social partners finding a more balanced package by agreeing. Of course I am.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u30	Mr President! Prime Minister, you are travelling to Germany next week and you are meeting with the Chancellor and also with the Minister of Finance and economic experts. Hopefully, after that, you will be able to answer the question that in Germany, for example, for this year, the cost-price development has been more than double that of Finland and is also higher in Sweden than in Finland. This has been going on for two years now, and this difference in competitiveness is thus narrowing rapidly. Professor Sixten Korkman warned that you are taking a great risk now by making compulsory decisions that will necessarily lead to compensation requirements in the next round of income. Associations representing low-paid workers are entitled to seek compensation when working time is extended, wages are reduced. You are not planning some kind of compulsory legislation, too, on what will happen next autumn in the context of the round of incomes, are you?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u31	Mr President! The agreement on wages is a matter for the social partners, and I am not going to interfere in that process, but it is part of this whole. We now need this competitiveness package with these changes in working life, we need wage moderation, and we also need those measures to promote productivity. If these first two things come to pass, then the government will not have to take any further of these painful cuts and we will be able to meet with a EUR 1 billion tax reduction package, which will then significantly increase purchasing power for the entire income group. As far as Germany is concerned, it is true that this difference has been observed in one year, but as we go along, this difference has arisen, particularly since 2007, the 15% difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u32	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you have placed the government in the position of the employers' union here. You are dealing with overtime, you are dealing with Sunday work pay, sick pay and holiday pay. I would like to know how you intend to bring the Confederation of Finnish Industries to the negotiating table with the employees of the social partners in this situation, in which the government gives back protection to the objectives of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, which are fully fulfilled. They have no interest in negotiating anything when the government is present. That is why I have offered to involve Mr Ihalainen in this process to help him, to get him to negotiate with him, but that also requires government action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u33	Mr President! This package also includes a change security package, which is mandatory for employers, i.e. a change security training equivalent to one month's salary. This also includes the retention of occupational health care in companies employing more than 20 people, which also solves the problem of equalisation of the cost of parental leave in women-dominated sectors. All these issues will be resolved in a coercive manner in this context. The government is not a representative of the employer here, but a representative of Finland. Finland needs this package as a part of the whole, it is obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u34	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u35	Mr President! Minister of Transport Berner, VR is making major losses to rail transport. We're running out of traffic on four routes. In addition, many others reduce traffic. Almost 30 stations will be completely shut down. This means major challenges for many commuters and the transition to use their own car despite climate targets. The closures are the result of the government's decisions to cut EUR 12 million per year from rail transport and are unsustainable in a time period where commuting is constantly increasing. VR has a private right to long-distance passenger trains until 24. However, according to a study by the Ministry of Transport itself, the partial opening up of passenger train services to competition could improve service levels and increase train mobility. Minister Berner, how do you intend to reform the monopoly agreement in a situation where VR's activities are no longer in line with the starting position of the agreement, and how do you intend to promote the creation of new players on the routes to be closed down and unused?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u36	Mr President! It is clear that these cuts are demanding and challenging for all areas of employment, for business and also for students. I also agree that the current monopoly agreement and the obligation and the purchase traffic we are currently receiving from VR do not fully match each other. Therefore, we are certainly in a situation where we have to see how the earlier agreements can be analysed and viewed. However, we have previously concluded agreements that bind VR and our VNK until one year 2024, and now it is a question of working towards more provision for these routes, which are now threatening to remain unserviced.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u37	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u38	Mr President! VR plans to concentrate passenger train traffic more clearly on trunk lines in the future, and it is hoped that their feed traffic will run smoothly on buses. At the same time, however, the Ely Centres have also stopped supporting bus traffic from the routes, which is driving a larger proportion of Finns and accelerating the migration from the country, which is something we Greens are worried about. Some of the closures will take effect as early as October and the rest in March. I would like to ask the Minister: how will the Ministry in future coordinate and direct public transport support in such a way as to make buses a genuine replacement for train shifts and routes to be abolished, in order to ensure people's mobility also in less populated areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u39	Mr President! Our aim is to make sure that the bus services that are now being cut off work for everyone. This requires negotiation, and we have also received very much binding commitments from the Bus Federation to take these routes into account on a market-based basis. This has been one of our key objectives in these negotiations with VR to ensure that we can make genuinely replacement operations work. The challenge for us is, admittedly, that the Ely Centres here must be made to work faster, and that is what I will be working on with all my heart in the next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u40	Mr President! The government decided to cut public transport drastically and to abolish, among other things, the Y train to Karjaa. As a result, train connections to the whole West The country of New Zealand will be significantly weakened and will cease completely in the case of Siuntio and Inkoo. Here. The Parliament House is only 46 kilometers [46 km] from Siuntio, and the government has decided to abolish all public transport going to Siuntio. On Tuesday, I had the opportunity to consult Minister Berner immediately on the grounds of this closure decision and he stated that that decision was taken on purely commercial grounds — purely commercial grounds. I would like to ask Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, Chairman of the Central Party: what would Finland look like if transport policy decisions were taken in this country on purely economic grounds?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u41	Mr President! As Minister Berner said, for all these routes, which VR has now decided to terminate or reduce the number of shifts, alternative ways will be sought, so will this route. Some of them have already been found, some are behind the authorisation procedure, but all of them are looking for alternative ways to get through, and of course they are also found.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u42	Värderade fru talman! Jag tycker att regeringen gör sig skyldig till en kortsiktig trafikpolitik när man radikalt inskränker på VR:s tågtrafik. Det får allvarliga följder i hela landet, och som arv tidigare rains blir till exempel Sjundeå och Ingå helt utan tågförbindelse till Helsingfors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u43	Mr President! In short, I would like to say that when I have spoken on a business basis, I have said that this has been analysed in terms of passenger numbers, traffic volumes, service packages and the needs of the regions and seen as a whole. It is usually the way business is analysed. What has to do with Siuntio: We are painfully aware that there is a challenge that needs to be resolved. One possibility in this respect is that VR is carrying out market-based traffic, which is in no way excluded when purchasing traffic has to be abandoned. The second option is that we are going to get a structure of this type called "Invitationplus", which we are going to use to make it work. In any case, we have worked on this solution in such a way that no region would be left without service and that we will be able to provide the essential services that we need. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u44	Madam President! It is important to hear that alternative, substitute transport methods will then pass, that is, students will be able to study and employees will be able to work. What, then, about the traffic that business needs to transport its goods? Can the rails hold? Can that traffic continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u45	Mr President! These cuts in purchasing traffic affect passenger transport and do not have any effect on freight transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u46	Madam Speaker! I ask Minister Berner: If you think that at the moment 550,000 passengers are losing their route there and it is a very large number of passengers who are travelling on those routes, and now that these disbandable routes are going to be replaced, they are going to become difficult in such a way that, for example, if you think about the end of the river distance and there are very many students between the University of Joensuu and the University of Jyväskylä, how are you going to ensure that they can move as easily as possible in the meantime?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u47	Mr President! The number of passengers, which in this case does not receive the service, is 320000. When we first started negotiating with VR, their presentation was 730,000. We have worked hard to achieve genuine value for the purchase that we are still doing. This 320,000 is undeniably the amount for which we need to be careful how we can make the services work. At the moment, our main objective is to mobilise smooth, agile and versatile bus transport to these areas where we are now forced to cut down on this purchase traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u48	Madam President! This has been a really sad Tuesday. The Central Minister of Transport abolishes train traffic from Central Finland — there is no more transversal rail link except from Ylivieska to Iisalme and from Tampere to Jyväskylä. This is an historic moment, if that is to be the case. You are always talking about favouring public transport, but this means the end of public transport in that area. As a train driver who has worked for 30 years, I can say that students, pensioners and workers travelling on those trains. And you are now taking away this train opportunity in the area where there have been relatively few cuts and jobs. I would like to ask whether you have any further consideration if, however, Parliament were now to decide to add this missing appropriation and, through it, to secure public transport in these central regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u49	Mr President! The Government Programme has agreed on a cut of EUR 15 million, and I understand this challenge, which is moving around it, but we are still facing many painful cuts. It is the one part of this everyday life we are with, and that is why so many of the decisions we make are so important to build this comprehensive picture. Perhaps the best thing that will help this situation is that we genuinely believe that we will have more provision for rail transport. This will allow us to rebuild the kind of sustainable development that we need. It won't happen overnight, but we have to work for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u50	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u51	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, yesterday you gave a speech to the Finnish people in which you appealed to the citizens and asked for understanding of the decision that the government is now making on the cuttings, calling for difficult economic times. You asked for an understanding of the savings that will take up to EUR 2000 per year from low-paid shift workers in Finland and the cuts that will be made to the unemployed, students, families with children and pensioners. However, in your speech you did not mention the grey economy, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, despite the fact that Finland is estimated to lose as much as EUR 6 to 8 billion a year as a result of tax avoidance. So, Prime Minister Sipilä, why does the government not set the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion as the government's top priority in balancing public finances instead of making small-income Finns miserable?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u52	Mr President! This problem raised by the representative is pan-European. We may have 1,400 billion, up to 1,700 billion, in the black economy, and the solutions must also be pan-European. Our government programme includes measures to prevent, for example, the transfer of income from Finland to tax havens or to countries with lower taxes as interest income. This is the kind of action that we will continue to take, which was initiated by the previous government. These are, of course, still on our agendas. We will continue to do so, and they are important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u53	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u54	Madam Speaker! Prime Minister Sipilä, this is a pan-European problem, but yes this is also a problem in Finland. It has also become known this week that the Minister of Transport and Communications, Anne Berner, has been the head of a company in the tax haven. You announced that you would give Berner your 100% support, even if you do not know what this is all about. My question is: in the light of this statement, how can citizens be confident that the government will take the fight against the shadow economy seriously and will also take concrete steps to reduce tax avoidance, particularly given that the budget for combating the black economy has been reduced by 99 police officers, who have been working specifically to combat the black economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u55	Mr President! There is no way I can get into the affairs of all companies so deeply, but I have gone through this with Minister Berner, and this has nothing to do with tax evasion. When business arrangements are made with an EU country in Europe and in Finland, time is common for business structures, such as in Luxembourg or in some other European countries, branches, main offices and enterprise structures. In this case, it is not tax evasion; all capital has been taxed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u58	Mr President! I have worked on the board of a Finnish family company, and once the company has been sold and merged with another company — Swedish — owned by a venture investor whose back company is located in Luxembourg, it does not automatically mean that it is a tax company. This is an EU country in which work is being done, and my own work has been on the Swedish company's board of directors there specifically to ensure that we make the best possible profit, the capital of which we pay taxes to Finland. Personally, I have received no benefit from the company or its administration. I have received a government fee for operating on the board of a Swedish company.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u59	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term too, very difficult economic decisions and also savings were made. Nevertheless, one of the top projects in the last parliamentary term was the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion. It was increased by EUR 20 million per year and also generated additional tax revenues for the State. In addition, the right to deduct interest was reduced, limited, and, among other things, an action programme against international tax evasion was drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that programme was taken forward with determination. However, the government is now cutting off the fight against the shadow economy, including the fight against financial crime, the police force. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister and perhaps also the Minister for Finance: what concrete steps is the government taking to combat tax evasion, and are you prepared to update this anti-tax avoidance programme and bring it to Parliament for discussion?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u60	Mr President! The fight against the shadow economy, tax evasion, will continue in a normal way, in fact, quite the same way as during the previous government term. As the former Minister of Finance well knows, we were forced to make painful cuts, some of which hit the black economy. Perhaps, however, when we look at the additional expenditure on internal security, about EUR 50 million, we transferred 4 million of it to Customs. This will also contribute to this work. Tax policy, when money is moving freely and businesses are seeking the best possible return within the internal market, is obviously a difficult whole. In my opinion, a good example of this is Portugal and a few Finnish pensioners who have perhaps gone there for better money. This government worked on it, perhaps unlike the previous government. I have also had bilateral discussions on this issue with Portugal. It's not a simple thing, but it's all about action.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u61	Mr President! It is true in itself that the budget for combating the shadow economy of the police is slightly lower than it is this year, but yet, as the Minister of Finance said, we have received additional efforts in terms of internal security and justice. And as far as the police are concerned, we are looking very closely at how we are targeting the money as well as possible, so that the fight against the shadow economy is also being done as well as possible. But I do not mean, under any circumstances, that the fight against the black economy with regard to the police will in any way stop. We will continue to do so within the limits of the appropriations available, and we will do a good job of doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u62	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to say to the Minister for Finance that I was the Minister of Finance who started negotiations on the reform of the tax treaty with Portugal. In fact, I believe and hope that the government will also act in accordance with the fact that, if these negotiations do not proceed quickly, Finland will also be prepared to break this tax treaty. But you did not answer my question, Minister for Finance: what concrete steps is the government taking to combat tax evasion and, above all, are you prepared to bring that international agenda, update it and bring it to Parliament? It would also enable the Members of Parliament to discuss these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u63	Mr President! Yes, you were the first finance minister to set these negotiations in motion, as perhaps we had done in the past with Spain, and when this case came to light, I think I was the first finance minister to have personal discussions with the Portuguese Minister for Finance, when I said quite frankly that if we did not reach agreement on this, then we would be prepared to cut it off. We will also continue to work in concrete terms against the fight against the shadow economy and we will come up with proposals for this. We can also have an open debate here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u64	Mr President! In these terms, you might want to pay attention. Tax planning and tax evasion are different things. Tax planning is legal, tax evasion is not legal. That is quite the point. It's tax planning, isn't it? It's all tax planning. Companies, when it is legal, are certainly doing it, and private citizens are also doing tax planning in their own way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u67	Madam President! International cooperation is most important here, but perhaps one of the things that is quite sacred in the end in the Member States of the European Union and its nation states, and that is tax policy. It remains largely within national competence now and in the future. However, this does not mean that there is no cooperation. We in the European Union, for example, are currently looking at different tax packages, five or six, but this type of debate is that we should start to harmonise tax rates or in some way define each other's tax rates. There is absolutely no such thing as the right to levy taxes still remains in the national state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u68	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u69	Madam President! Immigration has become an uncontrollable chaos in Europe and also in Finland, and recent decisions by the European Union on internal transfers of asylum seekers have contributed to the attractiveness of the dangerous routes of human smugglers. There was a different line during the last term of government: on the contrary, the quota refugee system was strengthened, which is aimed at the most vulnerable refugees, who can then be taken directly from the camps directly to the municipalities. Yesterday the President of the Republic also spoke on behalf of the quota refugee regime. Now that the European Union is holding an additional summit on the refugee crisis next Wednesday, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: will the government now turn around and act to strengthen this quota refugee system, speak for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u70	Mr President! This is precisely the way in which this would work in an ideal world, in other words, we would strengthen the conditions in these camps in such a way that people can be there in safe, humane conditions, and then asylum seekers would come to different countries. This would definitely be a more organised and better way of dealing with this issue. But at the moment we also have to deal with this acute crisis, which is due to the leakage of EU borders and the movement of more than one million people. We've got to do this, too. However, I have discussed with my fellow Members precisely in this direction the measures that will strengthen the presence of the EU there, then close to the crisis areas, in such a way that people can expect asylum decisions under human conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u71	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u72	Madam President! Indeed, the more and more clear decisions are taken on internal transfers of asylum seekers from one EU country to another, the more so as to strengthen this chaos that is now going on, and the more people will also seek to do with the smuggling routes. But the more decisions are taken to strengthen the quota refugee system, which is far too weak in Europe, and there is a lot of scope for increasing it in Finland too, then people would go to refugee camps there and the whole system would be more controlled. I believe that the European Union has made some serious mistakes here. I ask the Minister for the Interior, Orpo: since the number of asylum seekers in Lapland has now also meant a considerable burden on the authorities in the region, the Border Guard, the police, the immigration administration, what kind of resources are needed? It seems to me that the resources that are now known are not capable of:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u73	Mr President! Firstly, I can say that this is indeed a difficult situation in the north. From Haparanta to Finland, hundreds of asylum seekers come in a day. Today, the Government adopted a decision on a regulation that allows for the creation of organisational centres. Now we have the objective that Tuesday's organization centre will start in Tornio and at the same time, in fact during the weekend, will begin enhanced foreign surveillance in the area. With this, we are trying to control the present uncontrolled situation of asylum seekers coming to Finland and dispersing themselves and seeking asylum. In the border area, the authorities take over the people who enter the territory of Finland without authorisation and guide them to an arrangement centre where they have an obligation to stay for so long, or in fact up to a maximum of seven days, that their affairs are dealt with, and they are either directed to reception centres or converted, if possible. This is the answer to the acute way in which we can get this difficult situation under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u74	Madam President! With regard to Europe, next week's summit there are two questions. The first is how asylum seekers who are already in Europe — Hungary, Greece and elsewhere — may be admitted and treated properly. But much bigger and more important is how to prevent the emergence of a situation that is now at hand, where people are paying wild sums for life - threatening travels, human smugglers benefit, money for inhumane fates. This solution, to which I understood the Prime Minister's reference and to which the President referred yesterday, is that the European Union is using its common resources, money and other common resources to set up reception camps close to neighbouring areas which are as humane as possible and which allow asylum and legal routes to be sought. I ask Prime Minister Sipilä: are concrete decisions to be taken on this issue on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u75	Mr President! This is exactly how it is. Over the weekend, I and my colleagues have been discussing measures in this direction, that we are using our common EU money to solve this particular problem close to the crisis areas: improving the conditions in the camps and, in particular, putting an end to this trafficking in human beings. There are around EUR 10 billion of money in Europe, and it is a path that is too tempting. We must prevent it and, as Mr Zyskowicz said, we must do so by using the joint efforts of the EU there in close proximity to the crisis area.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u76	Mr President! This is indeed a whole in which the first and most important thing is to really help people there on the ground so that they can stay at home and in these refugee camps. The next step is that we must have strong EU action to guide these people who are on the move on safe and legal routes and, when they come to the European border, there will be so-called hotspot reception centres under the EU flag, where they will be welcomed and examined as to whether they have earned the asylum process. The third stage, then, is that, when many of them, from the very beginning, come as a destination for Finland, we will be able to manage the process here in Finland and help people who are in need of help, but also effectively find those who are in need of help among those who are not so immediately in need of help. All three elements need to be brought into treatment at the same time so that we can cope with this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u77	Mr President! The Finnish way of life and culture has always been that we help fellow people in distress. This has been invoked by President Ahtisaari and Archbishop Kari Mäkinen, among others. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister said that Finland must be an active player at European Union level, because action must now be taken to resolve the crisis in Syria and the EU must be a strong player in order to resolve the crisis there. But we also need this humanitarian aid, which the Minister of the Interior has called for here. But now I ask the government that humanitarian aid is being given for the money that you are now cutting almost half of the money for development cooperation. In Britain, the Conservative government, which also has to make heavy savings, has announced that there will be no cuts in development aid. This is a serious crisis. Is this policy not worth reconsidering? Consider these massive cuts in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u78	Madam President! That is a very good question. In this situation, it is indeed important to have targeted assistance in countries of origin, in neighbouring countries, in these transit regions and in refugee camps. But we're going to have to operate now that we're cutting everything. We have heard that you have opposed almost all the cuts proposed by the government, At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are currently working to ensure that it is precisely in these areas, in the neighbouring areas of Syria, close to the crisis areas of the Horn of Africa, the conditions of refugee camps, such as the projects under way there where basic services or training for women and girls are not cut. Internally, we are also going through this money, how we might even be able to target more money there. The second group, an important part of development cooperation, is humanitarian aid. Its level, the percentage, will be virtually the same in the budget next year as this year. I think it's very important that you do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u79	Madam President! When there is a war in Eastern Ukraine, then when an asylum seeker becomes an asylum seeker, we return him to Ukraine, but return him to Western Ukraine, and that is a logical system. However, when there is confusion in southern Somalia and asylum seekers come, it will not be returned to the northern part of Somalia, which is completely peaceful and can live in peaceful conditions. Now I ask such ministers: How does the government intend to conduct a country-by-country review of the countries in which asylum seekers can be returned, i.e. such a country-by-country list? Can such return agreements be renegotiated with different countries? Perhaps Foreign Minister Soini can answer this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u80	Madam President! Today we have just had a review of the matter by the State Department's Executive Committee, and Ambassador Pekka Hyvönen has been given the task together with the ministry's staff. We are going to go through all this: safe countries, which can be directly defined as safe countries. Then there are also these points of agreement with, for example, Afghanistan or Iraq, where Sweden has a return agreement. Then we can see if Somaliland is what these possibilities are. This is the action. The Ministry will also explain Sweden's positions on this issue through Under Secretary of State Pirkko Hämäläinen. This will give us an overview of what is being done elsewhere, so that we have a reference basis, so that we can improve our own activities. This is an indispensable part of this activity, which involves all these different elements that have emerged in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-17-ps-35.u81	Mr President! Indeed, as the Foreign Minister said, and we are working well together here. The Ministry of the Interior has responsibility for these so-called return agreements, and in this context it would be useful to highlight the fact that the Tuesday Council of Ministers was very far advanced in the debate on the establishment of a common EU list of safe countries, and this is being speeded up. In other words, if the EU still jointly defines those countries that are so-called safe and can be returned, such as the Balkan countries, then we can concentrate our resources on helping those people who are in real crisis areas and, more quickly again, as the Albanians have been returned this year, 600 people, more quickly to their own country, because together in Europe and in Finland we see that there is no such danger as, for example, in the area of the Syrian war.
