ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u1	The third item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Commission of the Office. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u3	Thank you, Madam President. — This government proposal proposes that Parliament approve the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child of December 2011 on the complaint procedure and also includes an increasing investigation procedure. Finland has signed this Protocol in February 2012 and the Protocol has entered into force internationally in April 2014. Then I would like to give some background to this agreement. The 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child entered into force in Finland in 1991. This Convention includes civil and political rights, such as the right to citizenship, as well as economic, social and cultural rights, such as the right to education and the right to influence its own affairs according to its level of development. The agreement obliges the child to be protected against sexual and other abuse and to safeguard the child’s position in the trial. The UN General Assembly has also adopted two additional protocols in 2000. The second, which has entered into force in Finland in 2002, concerns the participation of children in armed conflicts, and the Protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography has entered into force in Finland in 2012. Under this Agreement, the Parties, i.e. the States, are committed to taking steps to implement the Protocols and the rights guaranteed by this Agreement. The implementation of the Agreement shall be monitored by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, to which the States Parties shall submit their periodic reports on the national implementation of contractual obligations. In this case, further efforts are being made to improve the implementation of the Convention, to improve the legal protection of children and to strengthen the status of children's rights as legally binding human rights. An individual complaint system will now be established and the child’s rights committee will be empowered to deal with complaints made by individuals or groups of persons. The Protocol establishes a system of State appeals in which a State Party may bring an action for infringement of the obligations of the alleged Convention of another State Party. An investigation procedure will also be established in which the Committee on the Rights of the Child may examine information showing serious and systematic violations of the rights guaranteed by the Convention in one of the States Parties. Finland is therefore now intended to recognise the competence of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, both as regards state appeals and as regards this investigation procedure. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important to improve the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and therefore supports the adoption of the Government's proposal. In addition, the committee stresses the need to inform children of their rights effectively and to ensure that legal assistance is available to the child or his representative in filing a complaint. Pursuant to Article 94(1) of the Constitution, the Parliament approves state treaties and international obligations which contain provisions falling within the scope of the law. This Convention contains a number of legislative provisions which make it necessary for Parliament to approve the Agreement. The provisions of this Protocol have a strong link to a number of provisions relating to the fundamental rights of the Constitution. Article 13 empowers the Committee on the Rights of the Child to investigate serious or systematic infringements of the Convention, and this naturally concerns the sovereignty of Finland as provided for in Article 1(1) of the Constitution. On the other hand, paragraph 3 of the same article states that Finland participates in international cooperation to safeguard peace and human rights. According to the well-established interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, international obligations which are customary in modern international cooperation and which have little effect on the sovereignty of the State are not incompatible with the provisions on the sovereignty of the Constitution. The committee therefore proposes that the matter can be decided by a majority of votes and that the draft law on the implementation of the Protocol be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. In other words, the committee's proposal for a decision is: 'In the Government's proposal, the Parliament approves the Optional Protocol to the Convention referred to in HE 285/2014 vp. and gives the explanation referred to in the Government's proposal. Parliament accepts the bill contained in the government proposal HE 285/2014 vp."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u4	Mr President! The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is an important document in many respects. The adoption of it by the UN General Assembly on 20 November 1989 was a significant milestone, as it brought strong international acceptance that childhood is important in itself and not just a process of adulthood. The Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 89 C.E. entered into force in Finland on 20 July 1991. The present proposal for an optional protocol to the Convention represents an important addition to international cooperation as an instrument for improving the status of children. The entry into force of the Protocol shall mean that persons and categories of persons under the jurisdiction of the State Party shall be entitled to lodge complaints if they consider that the State Party has infringed the rights of the child guaranteed by the Agreement. The Protocol also provides for a state appeal in order to guarantee the obligations of the Convention. Mr President! The Protocol on the protection of the rights of the child, now being put into force at national level, is based on the commitment of States Parties to respect the principle of the best interests of the child in general. The same principle is currently enshrined in numerous Finnish laws on child law. It is a very good thing that the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child is strengthened through complaint and investigation procedures. With the government's proposal, the legislator has made and is now taking an important choice of values and a real step towards preventing child abuse, sexual exploitation, participation in armed conflicts and safeguarding other rights guaranteed by the Convention.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u5	Mr President! This proposal is good and worthy of support. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is one of the most important agreements. I personally hope that this message and these measures can be exported as widely as possible to different countries. The situation in Finland is certainly quite good compared to many other countries, but there are certainly situations in Finland where the child’s right to a father and to a mother can be strengthened or strengthened. But what I really wanted to raise is the concern that countries that are also involved in this agreement will overlook situations where children's rights are being neglected. This week the so-called tea boys came out in Afghanistan, where Western soldiers overlook the atrocities committed there for these young boys. In my opinion, it is unforgivable from the West that, following such agreements, such violations are being ignored in other countries. I personally hope that these will be more determined so that the right of children to school and also to sexual integrity is preserved in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u6	Madam President! When we talk about children's rights, we are talking about a very important issue, and this UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is, as has been said here, a very important document. All in all, we have also talked a lot recently about the general concern of families as to what will happen in the future to make a living for the family. We have had a rough time, and we have talked a lot here about the government's austerity policy, for example. Families with children have a lot to worry about. We remember that when, for example, the government programme was carried out, the children’s representative drew serious attention to the government programme and the exercise of children’s rights in it. Among other things, he spoke of serious problems in the government programme, features that would increase poverty among the most vulnerable families, and the development of inequality would be strengthened. I think this is a very serious matter. We have very often come across a debate here in the Chamber over the last few weeks about whether these values, what we are now doing, are fair. I do not think they are fair if the larger cuts are targeted, for example, at our lovely little milkshake, children: cuts in the livelihood of families, the wages of parents of families with children and other things. I would now also like to raise the debate from this point of view as to whether the government has assessed this implementation of children's rights from this point of view. For example, have there been assessments of the impact of children, the impact of children on the Government Programme, as requested by, among other things, the Ombudsman for Children in his own strong speech at the beginning of the summer? We know that families are very concerned. We know that, for example, there are concerns about austerity measures in schools. There is a great deal of concern about early childhood education. Only two hands have been created. People have been showing their minds about these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u7	Madam President! It is easy to agree with what Mrs Viitanen has just mentioned, and I can tell you that yesterday, at the celebration of the Union of Mother and Child Homes and Shelter Homes for the 70th anniversary, one of the speakers was Mr Tuomas Kurttila, who, in his excellent speech, listed the issues concerning which he and many experts in the field of child protection and family policy in general are concerned about the government's policies. President! Children's rights are always our adult obligations, and that is why we cannot just, as it were, shrug the straw and say that everything would be right here in Finland. As has been said here, we certainly have a very well-managed situation compared to many other countries, and we have developed many things that I think are also a model for the rest of the world, but we cannot at the same time be lulled by the fact that these problems have been resolved in our own country, especially now that we are looking at these government plans, which unfortunately affect very many of the same families, the same children. Of course, I fear that in some families what is to come now may be the last rivet that breaks the camel’s back and may not be able to take care of that family, the children as well as it should be. I would therefore very much like the concerns of the Ombudsman for Children to be taken seriously. President! However, we have done a great deal. During the last government term, a major overall reform of the Social Welfare Act was carried out, which aimed specifically at a coherent service chain for families. We have taken decisions on child protection, new legislative changes in the last period, which will also lead to further consultation of the child on matters relating to his or her situation when he or she has to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u8	Madam President! This government proposal, which has now been brought to Parliament, tells us that this government really bears responsibility for children and assumes responsibility for children's rights. It may be something that is a little embarrassing that we have not been able to deal with these matters before, even if we really had the opportunity and the time to deal with them. For example, we have had no demand at all to talk about the sexual exploitation of children. It is, for example, a legislative amendment which must be put into effect during this Parliament. It must always become an absolute judgment. And this is one step towards recognising that children are in a bad position. Children’s rights are the responsibility of adults. Grown-ups always have to put children first when we move on. As far as the government is concerned at this stage, we do not yet know everything that comes out of it and in what way it is thought to deal with this social aspect, but I am absolutely sure that this government will not take bread out of the mouth of a child, just as previous governments have not taken it away, but instead it will give children a much better legal status in this country. This proposal will definitely remove these situations, which can be referred to as the murder of a child when it comes to acts of violence against a child or sexual offences against a child or similar. This is a very good proposal from the government and I think it is very good to say that this government even takes those small ones into account in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u9	Mr President! However, it is now necessary to address Mr Tolppane's point of view that, in some way — at least I understood that you referred to it — not everything that could have been done to protect children has now been said, for example, from violence. This is something that I wish to strongly deny as the former Minister for Basic Services. For example, just last season we had a major investigation into the mismanagement of child protection due to the tragic situations that unfortunately took place in this kingdom. That report, conducted under the leadership of Aulikki Kananoja, was an excellent work. Much has already been done about it, including the fact that, if there is a suspicion of violence against a child, it must be reported directly to the police immediately. And if I have understood and remember correctly, Mr President, these legislative changes here in Parliament were adopted by a very large majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u10	Mr President! Indeed, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is extremely important and it obliges us to act. But it is not, of course, the kind of legislation that should not go beyond. This is not coercive legislation, but better implementation of children's rights can be done in Finland, and that must be the starting point. There was reference here to these savings that are now coming. Of course, here is the concern whether anyone has looked at how these savings on families with children — all these savings from different sides, 5% wage cuts and longer working hours — and then this difficulty in day care, the increase in group sizes, the increase in day care fees and so on — work together. It would be good if the representatives of the government parties could tell us whether these clarifications are coming. When Mr Tolppanen mentioned these penalties for crimes, I agree that we do have grounds for looking at, for example, tougher penalties for sexual crimes against children. But there are other areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u11	Madam President! A few comments on this debate. Firstly, as Mr Tolppanen has just mentioned in his speech that this proposal is a good one, I warmly support it now. But a few comments on the situation of the children. Of course, there has been a voice from the Social Democrats that deserves to be commented on. It is true that, because of the economic situation, we have difficulties at different levels of society: families with children, people living alone, the elderly have difficulties. It's obvious. But which one do we want, and which one do you want, ladies and gentlemen? Are we going to stay here with this problem and chew and whistle about how bad things are going for us? The only way out of this is to improve our employment situation, new jobs, because for families with children, for example, the only real guarantee of success is for parents to work, to take good care of their children. If we stay from the greatness of these aids to rage, it is an endless path. The only way is to improve this society
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u12	Mr President! This theme was the subject of a rather long debate yesterday. We agree that jobs are needed for mothers and fathers of children, but that is why we were wondering why it is so short-sighted to have a government policy in this regard too, in economic terms, that, unfortunately, it is not necessarily those jobs that will be created when people are cut back on their purchasing power, the economy will be strangled — that cycle may be quite the opposite. Many from an economic point of view also say that it is these cuts that endanger Finland's economic development. As far as this assessment of the impact on children, which Mr Heinäluoma raised in his speech, it is true that Mr Kurttila is proposing that such an assessment should be carried out, and that would now be extremely important, President, because we know, however, that there is a reduction in group sizes in schools, that significant savings are being made in early education. These are big things, and ultimately it's about value choices. It can't be that every time you say you don't have money, there's a hard time financially, that money always ends when it comes to the little one, the weaker one — the child, the unemployed — but at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u13	Madam President! Finland is the promised country of the studies, and I personally hope that rapid action will be taken on the studies and that progress will be made – as has been the case with the children, but that the same path will continue. Congressman Heinäluoma asked about hate crimes and whether their penalty scale should be increased. Yes, it is quite clear. About what happened in Lahti last night, it was right here that I heard that — has it now been in Lahti since...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u17	Mr President! It is a little unusual to listen to this week's debate about the fact that the socialist ministers at first bark up all the savings on the school side — they themselves made in the last period, even more savings under the Education Minister's term — and here we are now giving the impression that this country has now gone into this situation under this government. This government has been in power for three months, and after two ministers, Minister Huovinen and Minister Viitanen, this country is in this situation. And the custody that has been taken up is not the responsibility of this government but, above all, of you, former Minister Huovinen. In your time, those measures have been taken. You had power for four years, and then there could have been a policy that would not have been taken into custody. I welcome the fact that we are now determined to move forward and reform these issues, because debt is also one of the most unfair things for our children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u18	Mr President! Now that history is seen again, Mr Heinonen wants to see, it is good to remember that the coalition has been in the government since 87,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u21	Mr President! The basic guidelines have just been adopted and, in fact, these decisions have not even been taken, to which Mr Heinäluoma referred, But for the first time this government, as a strong united front of the three parties, assumes that this country's debt has to be broken down, must bring about growth, thus increasing tax revenues, and when more tax revenue comes, more money will come to the state, and when more money comes, we will also be able to take better care of each and every one of Finland. Personally, I strongly believe that when we talk about all the children in the world here too, which we are dealing with today, we in Finland are in a very good situation at the moment. And we're gonna be fine, we're gonna get through this, but above all, together, working together, together, looking to the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u22	Mr President! It is a little difficult to find out about Mr Heinonen's speech, because he first accuses me of all the custody of Finnish children and then says that we have things here very well for the children.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u27	Mr President! It is true what is happening at the moment, and that is why it is good to see what has been done last season. We have not been here in the middle of last season's politics or in the prosecution of last year. We then took responsibility, we now bear responsibility. And the actions of this government will certainly have to be assessed a little later than three months after this government has taken action. As to what is important for families with children this government will do, for example, to compensate for the cost of parenting. It has been hoped for, and now it is being done under the leadership of the Finns Party, the Centre Party and the National Coalition Party. It specifically helps mothers, the employment of mothers, the success of mothers in the labour market, but also families with children. And that's the kind of thing that we couldn't do when we were in government with the demos.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-25-ps-40.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
