ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, arade ledamoter! We have been deeply shocked by the terrorist attacks in Paris. 129 people were killed in terrorist attacks and 352 were injured. There can be no acceptable explanation for such acts. We must work more closely in international cooperation. Hope and goodness always overcome evil and open democracy under the rule of law. Terroratackerna i Paris har gjort oss djupt bestörta. Terrordåden orsakade 129 persons död och 352 personer skadades. Det kan inte finnas några godtagbara förklaringarna till gärningarna. Vår insats i det internationalella samarbetet måste nu stärkas. Med tillit och goda gärningar vinner vi över ondskan och vår öppna democracy besegrar fåväldet. På riksdagens vägnar framför jag kondoleanser till offrens fabillioner och närstående, till det franska folket och till alla som lever i Frankrike. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to express my condolences to everyone. The families and loved ones of the victims of the Paris attacks, the French people and all those living in France. Vi hedrar where you av offren med en me. We honor the memory of the victims with a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to the intermediate question by Mrs Katja Taimela and others on the impact of the Government's transport policy objectives on citizens and regional achievement. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. The first speaker for the debate is Mrs Taimela. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Mr Berner, if you please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u3	Mr President! Passenger train traffic in Finland is divided into different transport packages by type of contract. Firstly, there is a concession between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and VR for the exclusive rights of passenger train services. By exclusive agreement, the Ministry has imposed a public service obligation on VR in respect of rail passenger transport. In return, the Ministry granted VR the exclusive right to operate rail passenger rail services on the network specified in the contract. The exclusive agreement concerns both the exclusive right granted to VR to operate rail passenger rail services, i.e. the so-called ‘market-based’ traffic, and the public service obligations imposed in return for this exclusive right, i.e. the ‘obligatory’ traffic. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Communications acquires so-called ‘buy traffic’ from VR. The Helsinki Region Transport Joint Municipal Authority, on the other hand, acquires so-called commuter trains from VR in its own region. In September, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and VR published their proposals for cuts in purchasing train traffic. The aim of the proposal was to target cuts in public transport purchases under the Government Programme to the available budget so that the service level of customers would be reduced as little as possible. Already at this stage, it has become apparent that companies operating on market-based bus and coach services have shown themselves to be fit and flexible by actively grasping the possibility of providing replacement transport services for connecting points where train traffic will cease or decrease next spring. The ending of the Y train between Helsinki and Karjaa will have a particular impact on the people living in the Siuntians and the Inkoos. The solution will be sought in cooperation with different actors. There is a solution whereby the Ministry of Transport and Communications, acting as the competent authority for rail transport, would authorise the Helsinki Region Transport Group and the municipality of Siuntio to acquire rail transport between Helsinki and Karjaa. There has been an application for one bus and coach traffic licence between Tampere and Keuruu, which operates three daily flights and thus replaces most of the train traffic to be withdrawn. Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Säinäjoki has been applied for two road traffic permits to replace the train traffic that will be abolished. The service level seems to even improve in some places in these areas. There has been an application for scheduled services between Joensuu and Nurmes, which will make up for the running of trains. There has also been an application for a single traffic licence between Joensuu and Pieksämäki and Joensuu and Helsinki, which replaces a train connection previously operated between Pieksämäki and Joensuu. A traffic permit has been applied for between Kajaani and Oulu, which replaces the one train shift that leaves between them. Although the greenhouse gas emissions from bus and coach transport are generally higher than the emissions from rail transport, it should be noted that different forms of public transport should not be compared against each other in comparison with greenhouse gas emissions, but rather compared to emissions from passenger cars. As Osmo Soinvaara writes in his blog, emissions of bus and coach travel per passenger are reduced when buses are driven in full, which is the goal of market-based bus transport. A contract for the purchase of rail transport will be agreed with VR within the limits of the appropriations provided for in the Government's budget proposal. As I have already said, in the context of a reduction in purchasing traffic, alternative solutions have been sought for the routes under threat of closure in the market-based bus transport sector. Until the end of 2016, it will be temporarily supplemented by binding solutions for train traffic through the lines where there will otherwise be no train traffic. In any case, the conditions for the maintenance of rail transport will be safeguarded at all points of contact until passenger train traffic has been opened up to competition. The details of the solutions will be clarified later. According to the existing exclusivity agreement, the cost of the exclusive liability traffic must not exceed EUR 20 million per year for VR. At present, the annual cost of compulsory transport is around EUR 15 million. It is therefore possible to increase the burden-sharing traffic to approximately EUR 5 million for the contact points for which the purchase traffic has been proposed to cease altogether. On the other hand, the reduction in the frequency of purchases and compulsory services will be carried out as planned. On market terms, bus and coach transport by route without public aid will not entail additional costs for the State. Furthermore, there will be no additional costs in the case of compulsory rail transport solutions. Mr President! The ongoing decline in the supply of rail transport shows that the domestic exclusive system is not competitive with other types of transport. In order to improve the competitiveness and customer orientation of rail transport, the opening-up of competition for passenger rail transport must be speeded up. The review of rail transport regulation has already been identified as an important part of the overall reform of transport legislation in the preparation of the Government Programme. The experience of several European countries shows that the opening up of competition has improved the rail service for the customer, which has also led to a clear increase in passenger numbers. In Sweden, for example, competition has brought with it not only increased traffic volumes but also new service concepts. There the reform has been successful, above all from a customer perspective. Moreover, the opening-up of competition has brought cost savings to society, as the need for public funding has fallen by an average of between 10% and 30%. It has been pointed out that in Finland, the benefits of opening up competition can only be achieved if additional investment in rail infrastructure is made in order to increase traffic volumes. As an example of the importance of investment in Finland, the section of the Wall River—Oulu, which is referred to in the inter-opposition question, can be considered as an example of investment in Finland. The State has made significant infrastructure investments in this section of the line, but despite the investments made, the transport supply needs to be reduced by the line section. This shows extremely clearly that there will be no increase in traffic and that it will not be possible to provide customers with services with a better availability and price-quality ratio solely through investment in the rail network. However, this does not mean that the Government does not consider the operation and condition of the network to be an important issue. The Government will invest EUR 600 million in reducing the transport network repair debt during the Government's term of office, some of which will be allocated to the rail network. The Government has set the objective that the conditions for opening competition for transport falling within the remit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications will be in place in spring 2016. It is therefore a question of ensuring that the conditions for opening up competition are met — not of new players actually starting up next spring. While efforts are being made to attract new players to the market as quickly as possible, it is likely that new railway undertakings will not enter the market until 2017. All the more reason for taking measures to enable competition must be put in place immediately. We cannot afford to expect the benefits of opening up competition. Mr President! Contrary to what the opposition falsely claims, the opening up of rail competition does not require changes to existing legislation. On the other hand, success requires that we are able to create confidence in the market that liberalisation is genuine and that new operators are not discriminated against. In addition, the opening of competition requires the renegotiation of the exclusivity agreement between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and VR. The solutions can be implemented by spring 2016. In an environment in which there is more than one railway operator, all services related to the operation, such as passenger stations, terminals and maintenance facilities, must also be available to operators in a competitive neutral manner and under the same conditions. Existing legislation already guarantees that these services must be provided on non-discriminatory terms to all operators. In order to avoid that, following the opening of competition, operators will only select the most profitable routes, a model can be considered which combines and competitively competes on market-based profitable and unprofitable lines. Mr President! The Government has decided to implement a transport cycle project that brings together and harmonises fragmented legislation by mode of transport. Reform and deregulation must be carried out in such a way that safety and the environment are not jeopardised. It must be ensured that authorities have the means to intervene if market liberalisation and new innovations appear to have undesirable effects, such as a threat to the safety or sustainability of the transport system. Since Finland is a sparsely populated country of long distances, it is expected that there will be little or no market-based services everywhere. Access to services must be ensured in such a way as to ensure equality between citizens and regional equity. A balanced outcome can be achieved by setting a minimum level of service for the customer of the transport system. The traffic cycle is a major legislative project of impact and scope, which needs to be carefully prepared. It is intended to be implemented in three stages over a two-year period. The first phase will bring together and, where possible, harmonise legislation on separate substantiated transport markets and services, in particular for land transport. The Transport Arc project will look at all modes of transport. This means, for example, the examination of taxi traffic raised by the opposition in its question. With regard to taxi services, the aim is to ensure the necessary regulation for the quality and safety of the service to be provided to the customer. It is necessary to discuss whether quantitative restrictions are still necessary and whether the obligations attached to the operation of taxi services are too burdensome. However, discussions on the development of taxi services have only just begun in good spirit with the industry. Mr President! Transport is currently one of the most heavily regulated sectors in society and the most inefficient systems. For example, the capacity utilisation rate of an individual passenger car is around 5% and the average number of people employed in commuting is 1.1 passengers. Transport is an important factor in the national economy. Around EUR 16 billion is spent on moving in households per year and is the second largest item of expenditure for households immediately after housing costs. Transport, together with logistics, also plays a crucial role in the competitiveness of business. The annual market in the transport sector is good EUR 30 billion in Finland. Currently, private car transport accounts for more than 80% of mobility and transport is largely self-service. Even if only part of the self-service would become a service, there is considerable demand for services that meet the needs of customers. This change is not about redistribution of existing markets, but about the creation of a whole new demand. The current situation in the transport sector can be compared to the telecommunications market in the 1990s, when the sector was strictly regulated, monopolistic and inefficient. The liberalisation of competition resulted in high-quality basic services for everyone, comprehensive networks for the whole country, new services for customers and new business for business. Competition also achieved the cheapest price level in the EU countries and a solid basis for the digitalisation of society. This change that called for courage and new thinking enabled Finland to rise from the recession. Over the last five years, the three largest telecommunications operators invested EUR 3.2 billion in Finland. At the same time, the State would not have been able to make such a contribution. The transport sector also needs a private sector to invest. This can only be achieved if investments are also profitable for private investors. The Government aims to create a pioneer in the transport sector in Finland. Global megatrends, such as digitalisation, sharing economy, serviceization and automation, form the basis for entirely new service concepts. And it is clear that the fine-tuning of the current transport system and price competition by the authorities are no longer enough to create an attractive transport sector. The bold productivity leap in transport can be achieved through new digital innovations and market-based services. Digitalisation is a great opportunity for the transport sector, which must be exploited right now. Mr President! The opposition has proposed cancelling the purchase service cuts in rail transport and financing the purchase services by cancelling part of the reduction in the car tax proposed by the Government. Finland has one of the oldest car fleets in Europe, which is affected by the reduction in the car tax. The increased use of new technologies and low-emission vehicles will undoubtedly have a positive impact on road safety and on reducing the environmental impact of motor vehicles. Similarly, the fact that EUR 5 million was cut back on state funding for public transport during the previous term of government has been ignored. I therefore call on the opposition to come up with ideas on how to provide new services for public transport and more passengers, and hence ticket revenue, so that the organisation of transport is not so dependent on the funding of municipalities and the state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Finnish transport system has been built to meet the challenge of long distances and people’s everyday needs. This approach is not changing. Almost everything else, on the other hand, is at a major change in our transport policy. The Government's policy on transport policy is unconvincing. What is striking is that the government's transport policy, on the whole side of the opposition, brought a common interlocutory issue behind it for the first time in this parliamentary term. The Government's transport policy leaves open the question of how to ensure equality between citizens and proper public transport connections throughout the country. The question also arises as to when trains will return to these lines where traffic is now being cut off and how the vitality of the provinces will be genuinely taken care of. Mr President! We are faced with a major reform for which it is important to find a common vision and objectives for our future transport system. It must serve working, entrepreneurship and living in a cost-effective and ecologically sustainable way. It is a question of the smoothness of people's daily lives, how we make it possible for people and goods to move more smoothly. It is about jobs and the economy, the operating conditions of companies. The transport policy line of the Sipilä Government and Minister Berner is market economy, the liberalisation of competition through the dismantling of restrictions and guidance. The government has a misconception that competition automatically brings reforms, innovation and growth. However, a market-led transport system fragmented between operators does not allow for a coordinated development of the whole or effective coordination of the different transport systems. Purely market-based traffic is concentrated only on the most profitable routes and markets. The loss-making services will be made available to the public or will disappear altogether. This is how the regions and vitality suffer. The government claims that these services can now be produced without taxpayers' money. At the same time, the services would improve and it would be possible to travel in the same way as before. What's the real basis for this fascination? I don't think there's a match in this equation. We are moving from a relatively functioning system to a system that allows all kinds of cream peeling and other slicing. Mr President! The core of our regional policy has been to keep Finland as a whole inhabited. With the Government's policy on transport policy, the bottom is now falling away. In many provinces, government action is followed with fear. The municipalities concerned were not informed in good time, if any, about changes in the purchase services for rail transport, not to mention the possibility of affecting the decision. It is symbolic that Berner's announcement of the large-scale abolition of train services came as a surprise to the parliamentary group in the city centre, according to press reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u13	Mr President! Making Finland fit is the first goal of Sipilä’s Government. We want to stop the debt cycle, create new jobs and ensure that everyone receives high-quality public services. Finland has been described as a small and agile country with the ability to offer solutions. However, a large part of our transport network and public transport services have fallen apart. The central government is making a historic change in transport policy. During this parliamentary term, we will renovate roads, railways and waterways throughout the country with a total of EUR 600 million in separate funding. Putting roads and routes in order serves the everyday life and business life of Finns. We take advantage of the resources of Finland as a whole. We create prerequisites for Finland to become the top country in the bioeconomy and renewable energy and to develop public transport. Mr President! The savings of EUR 15 million decided in the Government Programme for transport purchasing services are mainly directed towards rail transport and train services managed by VR. The Centre is well aware of the concerns of people and businesses in these regions. Therefore, the centre requires solutions to be found for train or other replacement public transport before the shifts stop. The debate on individual train services must not be buried under the fact that public transport in Finland has been in a spiral of obsolescence for a long time. In one way or another, the government must ensure that public transport services are secured throughout Finland. Commercial operators complement public services. The commercial conditions for public transport have not been sufficiently developed in recent years. In Finland, public transport is partly over-regulated. The standard is already so strict that it will prevent more than provide opportunities to develop services. VR will also play an important role in public transport in the future, but its monopoly on passenger transport will no longer be difficult to justify. Due to the reduction of stations and stoppages, fewer and fewer people have the opportunity to travel by train. The additional funding required by the opposition for purchasing services would only provide short-term first aid and would not facilitate the disease of permanent obsolescence. Mr President! Securing public transport services throughout Finland requires radical reform and a new way of thinking. The central parliamentary group supports Minister Berner's objective of modernising public transport as a whole and customer-oriented approach. Public transport reform is also an environmental act. It will also return public transport services outside cities and enable new transport entrepreneurship, which can reduce single car traffic. In the opinion of the central parliamentary group, a change of direction for the development of public transport requires the dismantling of unnecessary barriers by allowing, for example, the combination of goods and passenger transport, travelling on a single ticket in different public transport modes, travelling on school rides, and the expansion of call traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u20	Mr President! The removal of the long-term correction debt to the transport infrastructure is the most important task of this period in transport policy. This was said unanimously during the last parliamentary term by the parliamentary cooperation group that produced the report. The correction debt for transport infrastructure has been accumulated for several years. Most of this repair debt was incurred in the 21st century. If we look at that 21st century for 12 years, the Minister of Transport's portfolio has belonged to the Left Alliance for three years and to the SDP for four years. It's a common problem. Now the government is acting in accordance with the guidelines of the parliamentary cooperation group, and I would stress that this group has been unanimous. Good traffic flow and reliability is a basic prerequisite for our society as a whole. In addition to this, communication links must be taken care of, and this is clearly a task for the government. Unlike its predecessor, the present Sipilä, Soin and Stubb government has understood the importance of transport and transport infrastructure. However, there will be no correction in six months. The repair movement is under way and we are investing heavily in the transport infrastructure, in particular in basic infrastructure management and the lower road network, including private roads and forest roads. One of the key projects is the bioeconomy, and without uninterrupted flows of wood this objective cannot be achieved. The investment in transport infrastructure is therefore of paramount importance, and transport policy must be long-term. This is exactly what the government does. We have a number of taxes and charges in our country, already by previous governments, on passenger cars and different modes of transport. At the same time, Finland has one of the oldest cars in Europe. This is an unsustainable situation in terms of energy efficiency, the environment and road safety. As a result, the government will reduce the car tax so that road safety and environmental friendliness are improved. This will make it possible for the whole country to live and live in the future. The cost of driving must be kept under control. As a result, like previous governments, we will not increase the fuel tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u34	Mr President! Finland is small in population and has a large area in relation to it. There are plenty of customers for public transport in such a way that action is only in favour of major cities and between large cities. Outside these concentrations, State aid to transport is important for the existence of links. Nevertheless, for those living outside urban areas, their own car is a practical need. Roads in our country are collapsing, bridges cannot withstand new trucks, public transport is being reduced in sparsely populated areas, air transport within the country is so poorly managed that few even believe it can grow, and so on. Mobility is an essential part of people's lives. Not everyone lives in the city within walking distance or even a short bus ride from school, work, shop, maternity clinic or other destinations. It is important that the lack of means of transport does not constitute obstacles to normal life, which includes the possibility of moving from A to B when you wish. There must be sufficient transport opportunities and alternatives throughout Finland, as the deficits in them discriminate between Finns. The authors of the intermediate issue are rightly concerned about the equality of citizens and the maintenance of appropriate transport connections throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u43	Mr President! Like millions of Finns, I have seen from the train what Finland looks like. And for 30 years I have seen the importance of railway lines and train connections for Finland, Finland and the provinces. Public transport is of great importance to our society. It enables various solutions for working, studying and living. Public transport ensures the accessibility of services to all citizens. It plays an important role in achieving our climate objectives. In order to achieve these objectives, we also need to invest in public transport. It is common to all public transport solutions in Europe that public transport needs public support if it is to guide the availability, level, price and equality of services. Mr President! I would never have believed that, when the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport were from the Central Party, the government decided to close the transversal train traffic in the provinces of Finland almost entirely. This makes it difficult for citizens to move around and the vitality of the provinces. It should be noted that, in addition to embryonism, the centre has also abandoned the second central pillar of regional policy under the leadership of Sipilä. I do not think that the centre of Minister Berner corresponds to the image I have received over the years from the centre of the provinces and from the election promises of its representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u48	Mr President! Transport policy choices define the long-term development of society. For example, the decisions taken in the late 1800s on the construction of the Finnish railway network laid the foundations for the regional structure of modern Finland. The growth centres are still located along the main lines built over a century ago, and the unincorporated localities continue to decline. The Government's transport policy choices now leave more and more localities without their own railway station. In particular, the Government will reduce and abolish train traffic in sparsely populated areas. As public transport declines, the attractiveness of the provinces suffers. For example, all passenger train traffic from North Karelia will cease except for the connection from Joensuu to Helsinki. Transversal connections between Eastern and Western Finland will also be broken when traffic stops from Seinäjoki to Jyväskylä and from Keuruu to Tampere. In Uusimaa, Y train shifts are reduced and stations are reduced. The sufferers are especially the residents and companies of Karjaa and Inkoo. The reduction in the operation of the Y train cannot be justified by even a small number of users. In fact, the Y-train is wanted out of Rantarada to slow down trains between Turku and Helsinki. The Government will reduce and shut down traffic at the same time as VR will have to adjust its operations as competition tightens. The combination is untenable. More than a century of investment in the development of rail transport will be wasted. More resources are needed to build roads as traffic moves from iron wheels to rubber wheels. Mr President! The Government has announced that the sections of the train lines to be closed will be opened up to competition. However, it is unlikely that companies would be found on these routes which would invest in unprofitable shares while VR would have a monopoly on other lines. Competitive rail passenger transport can be justified and can bring cost savings, improve service and increase passenger volumes, but it must be done prudently, not as a hasty austerity measure. Passenger rail transport must be opened up to competition first in urban areas where the benefits are greatest. The level of services to be opened up to competition must be clearly defined, the availability and status of staff must be secured, and the network must be developed and maintained. Competition is of little use if the tracks are in such poor condition that precise traffic is impossible. Despite the opening-up of competition, purchasing services will continue to be needed. The budget must be secured. At the same time, the financing of the purchase service must be made transparent — today, transport in favour of the capital region finances transport in sparsely populated areas. Mr President! The train traffic on the routes to be closed will stop so quickly that no company will be able to acquire trains suitable for the Finnish railways, hire employees, obtain permits from the authorities and start traffic on time. Also, replacement bus lines are not a real option for everyone: bus travel times are getting longer, and many people have to buy their own car. Train connections are also used by young people, students and pensioners, for whom private motoring is not an option. In practice, many remain in traffic at the end of train traffic. Many move to growth centres, which deepens the housing shortage of growth centres and increases housing prices. Railway departments have designed apartments and jobs around the stations. Now the municipalities feel they have been betrayed by the government. Families become sufferers who have bought or built their homes in the vicinity of the stations. When the train stops, the value of their apartments collapses. Mr President! Transport investments should not be made separately, but as part of the planned development of community structure, business life and housing. High-speed rail connections between cities combined with high-speed rail connections within cities form the basis for a modern, ecological community structure in which no passenger car is needed — rail transport is a modernisation of freedom of movement. Public transport needs to be developed as a whole in order to ensure that the interconnections also work. The Government allocates 600 million to the renovation of old routes in the transport key project. It is good that the roads and networks are taken care of, as long as the actions are targeted at the areas where the best benefits are derived. On the other hand, it is short-sighted that transport structures and business models are not funded. For example, the railway projects in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Tampere and Turku, such as the Pisara and Urban Railways and the express trams, would generate much greater transport benefits than the investment and pay themselves as tax revenue. The government's transport policy is too long into the past. We must repair our old pits, but at the same time build the future. Mr President! The Group of the Greens and Diversities agrees with the representative To the motion of censure tabled by the trout.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u49	Madam President! Minister! According to the Government, the objective of supporting long-distance transport is to maintain and increase the service level of rail transport and to increase the use of public transport. In its draft budget, the Government says that it wants to support regional and national travel needs if they cannot be organised on market terms. High goals, but in reality the Government will cut VR's purchase service budget by over 12 million and the purchase of public transport services by a total of EUR 15 million. How do these cuts support regional and national travel needs? No way. In addition, in September VR announced savings of EUR 50 million and negotiations involving around 2,800 people. Together, these are very hard hits on the mass traffic in sparsely populated areas of the country. The cuts in public transport are disproportionate, especially in the transport sector of Eastern Finland. Due to government cuts, a large number of people around Finland are completely empty because they do not know how to move to work, study, engage in hobbies and manage their everyday affairs next spring. The Left Alliance wonders whether the government is aware of how the decision affects the daily lives of families, patients in medical care, students, the unemployed and those in work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u54	Värderade Talman! För att spara 15 million minskar regeringen upphandlingen av trafiktjänster och lämnar många orter i vårt land helt utan tågförbindelse. Under de TVå tidigare valperioderna har staten satsat närmare 1 billion euro på banavsnittet Seinäjoki-Uleåborg, nu dras tågturer in på det avsnittet. Det är exempel på vad som håller på att heida inom spårtrafiken. Det kan inte reserve klok politik. En politiker måste vänja sig vid att få arga brev av sina läjare — det måste man tåla som beslutsfattare. Det är ändå inte många gånger som jag under mina drygt åtta år i riksdagen har fått så många arga brev på e-posten som när nyheten gick ut att Y-tåget mellan Helsingfors och Karis läggs ned. Det handlar om en stor besvikelse hos enskilda, Studerande och fabillioner som satsat på att bosätta sig nära jänvägen. Förutom att Y-tåget försvinner har flera kvällsturer dessutom Dragits in, Vilket försvårar pendlandet västerut från Helsingfors. "DetviktigastekriterietvartågförbindelsentillHelsingforsdåminfruechjagförsexårsedanflytadetilKaris. "Såskrivermantillmigisittbrev. Han fortsätter: "Till följd av tågindragningarna kommenter Raseborg att vaa en attraktiv ort för nya fabilener och företag, och vi som bor kommer att överväga att flytta bort. " "Jagärförbannad" avsluurha.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u55	Madam President! The decline in transport connections undermines the capacity of the provinces to attract business investments, labour force, students and tourists. In its transport policy report, the previous government stated that "the regional structure of Finland will be developed as a multicentre and networked entity based on good transport connections". This is a principle that we have long shared in Finland, and it should not be abandoned. The Government’s decision to reduce rail purchasing services is a short-sighted policy and unnecessary hasty. The announcement of the abolition of train services in sparsely populated areas came as a complete surprise in early autumn. Rounding, Nurmes, Lieksa, Vilppula, Ähtäri, Siuntio and many other places are left completely without a train connection. Reducing rail connections makes it difficult for people to move, especially in remote areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u56	Mr President! The decision to cut public transport by 15 million was taken in connection with the Government Programme. We will continue to have to cut back on services due to the situation in our economy and the situation in democracy. It is therefore essential that we develop the system, enable growth and promote investment. Opening up competition in rail transport is one part of this. There is no need for new legislation to open up competition. However, in order to ensure that the conditions for opening up competition are as favourable as possible, we have decided and agreed with VR on the use of compulsory transport over a transitional period until the end of 2016 with the connections which are now threatened by the termination of traffic due to the cessation of purchasing traffic and for which no other train traffic will be generated by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u59	I would ask those who wish to take part in the debate to sign up by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u60	Madam President! I would like to remind you of what it is about today: 28 train stations are closing down. There have been 550,000 trips a year on the shifts that are now to be closed. The traffic will be completely discontinued on the Tampere-Keuruu, Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Seinäjoki, Joensuu-Nurmes, Helsinki-Karjaa orika Y-train, and the supply will be reduced on the railway sections Kouvola-Kotka, Hanko-Karja, Kajaani-Oulu, Seinäjoki-Rovaniemi, Kokkola-Oulu, Helsinki-Kouvola-KuopiojaKuopio-Kouvola. All in all, this is an extremely large package, and the question now arises as to whether the government and Minister Berner really believe that the market will successfully complete this whole package and the palette.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u61	Madam President! Functional and safe transport routes throughout Finland are extremely important for people's mobility, housing, entrepreneurship and the functioning of business. The transport network must be seen as a whole, including roads, railways, waterways, air transport and also broadband and electronic communications. The renovation debt for basic routes currently amounts to around EUR 2.5 billion. It is therefore good that the government is directing a total of EUR 600 million over three years to halt the growth of the correction debt and its controlled reduction. It will provide a safe basis for starting to improve public transport services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u62	Mr President! This government has indeed sat for 23 weeks, and so far we have heard
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u65	Madam President! We must be pleased to see that the Minister has taken this reform of our transport system in the form of a traffic cycle with a vigorous approach. It is certainly the kind of necessary work that we will now focus on. At the same time, we must be somewhat surprised at this impenetrable nature of the opposition's interim issue. We now have other areas for development in Finland than rail transport. Even now that alternatives have already been put in place, one must wonder that the government is now being cut down because of the savings of EUR 15 million. Now that I have made it out loud, I would take this opportunity to ask the Minister: at what point is this system of selling digital public transport tickets? For example, the purchase of bus tickets is very difficult at the moment; every locality has a different way of doing it and has to visit it and here. Tickets cannot be bought online, for example. Whether to wait for the whole system to be reformed or whether to have a national ticketing system
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u66	Mr President! First of all, Mr Jalonen: the option for the SDP is to compromise the car tax a little bit. It can finance this deficit of 15 million. But, Minister, you announced today that the government has again withdrawn its own decisions after opposition and bad judgment. You announced that VR's obligation traffic would be increased by EUR 5 million. However, the cut in your budget proposal is EUR 15 million. Now you are offering EUR 5 million. Where is the EUR 10 million that will be exhausted? Please tell Parliament which railway sections and which trains will be purchased with this EUR 5 million. You have to tell us that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u67	Mr President! Rail transport requires heavy investment and only pays for long payback periods, especially in Finland, where old equipment is not transferred to narrow tracks from other European countries. As such, competitive tendering can improve the quality and availability of rail transport, but there is also an option that, despite prior surveys, no commercial company can be found for any part of the line to be opened up to competition with an acceptable business model. My question is this: do we have a plan B in case there is no competition in passenger traffic on the Finnish railways? How will it be possible to ensure continuity of transport in places where there is otherwise no functioning public transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u68	Madam President! The Left Alliance wants to develop Finland in such a way that the whole of Finland remains inhabited, and to ensure that we have business activities here in Helsinki all the way north to Finland. I would have asked Minister Berner: during the last parliamentary term, when this parliamentary task force for the financing of basic infrastructure was in operation, could you support this proposal from the Left Alliance that this same type of parliamentary working group should now be set up, which would jointly reflect across the political boundaries on this whole method of organising public transport and on how we could really get a functioning public transport system when we were talking about service chains and so on? We hope that we will be able to contribute to the development of our common country and to ensure that this competitiveness of ours is maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u69	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Wallin's question that what these 5 million now buy in 2016. As regards Siuntio, for example, I understand that the municipality has felt forced to look for solutions in which the municipality itself pays for this transport rather than for the state itself. What negotiations have been held, for example, with the Government and Siuntio? And then as a second question: how does the government intend to secure rail links in those areas and sections where there is no profitable transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u70	Madam President! Here, the opposition has rightly expressed the concern that, when competition is quickly opened up, it will bring market-based traffic on the profitable tracks of growth centres, but the financing of the transport of sparsely populated areas will then be left to the taxpayer alone. In the context of the liberalisation of postal services, the Directive allowed the creation of such a so-called compensation fund, provided that the principle of proportionality, transparency and also non-discrimination were respected when determining contributions. Well, this possibility was then nationalized, but how does the government now intend to ensure that market players will also be involved in financing these transport connections in sparsely populated areas? And when you said that there is no need for new legislation, is there not a need for new legislation in such a situation if there is to be some way that these so-called cream scrubbers are also responsible for the transport of sparsely populated areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u71	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Sipilä Government first of all gives money for the repair of roads and railways. But as far as this passenger train is concerned, of course it has raised worrying voices in Northern Pirkanmaa. And I am pleased that you, Minister, have negotiated with VR so that the trains under threat can continue next year. It is also good to hear that bus services are coming, for example, between Tampere and Keuruu, up to six bus services. At any rate, however, we will have to open up competition for passenger train services at some point, as demanded by the EU, and it would then be possible to start in 2017. Private operators have already signed up for this. But we must make sure that it is not just cream peeling, which is also a matter of concern here, but that if, for example, the train gets a super shift between Tampere and Helsinki, then it must continue from there until Keuruu. Of course, these shifts cannot be given free of charge. They'd only be interested, wouldn't they? And, of course, we also need to do this stock company in a controlled and well-managed manner, which can then be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u72	Madam President! First of all, it must be pointed out to the government that this is a much wider issue than the mere abolition of train services. Regional policy is falling apart, which is disastrous for the development of regions and regions. In the provinces, train shifts will be abolished and shifts between growth centres will be reduced. Regional airports are under threat, and Finnair's sales are speculative. It should be noted that in the group speeches the assembly was the only one who initially defended the relevance of the opposition's interim issue. However, this was withdrawn by Mr Kopra in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u73	Mr President! The Government is considering transport issues, as well as others, in a very comprehensive way, and it is great that at the same time the government is reducing the tax on private car robbery but is also considering the importance of public transport. The question of this reform is precisely to ensure that connections are secure and that the efficiency of public transport is as well balanced as possible. The opposition strongly criticises us that the government has criticised its own proposal. Is it not a good and right sign that we are not blindly moving forward, but that we are discussing and considering this issue as carefully as the rest? We need to secure links, but without an excessive burden on public finances. At least it cannot be assumed that all routes that simply do not have sufficient demand will be maintained. So, in summary: The details of this reform are still being clarified, but the principles are clear. Services will be secured,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u74	Mr President! This line of Chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group Sampo Terho, where he said that it cannot be required to support those shifts and areas that do not move on market terms themselves, is a tough line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u77	Mr President! I am already used to these humorous speeches after our group speech. I am not quite sure whether we are even going to take seriously these quotes, which are reasonably inaccurate compared to the speech just a minute ago. What I said was that routes which are not sufficiently used, which are estimated to be unprofitable and inefficient can be reconsidered, and this is probably not an unreasonable starting point. I would also remind the opposition that when you continue to offer a reduction in car tax as an alternative, how many times do you intend to offer to abolish the same tax in order to compensate for the increase in various expenditures. You have now offered to ban or cancel 200 million tax cuts here for at least $2 billion. So we look forward to the serious alternative and the appropriate responses that would help to find this balance between the efficiency of public transport and the security of connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u78	Madam President! I ask Minister Berner: how has the government managed to fulfil its commitment to secure a substitute transport connection where the termination of VR's purchase service contracts will take up rail connections in March 2016? I will clarify this question with three specific questions: Has a private operator been found for all rail lines that are closing down to guarantee replacement transport? Number 2: Are private operators obliged to manage not only profitable routes but also unprofitable routes in the context of competitive tendering? And question 3: If the answer to the first question is not an unambiguous 'yes', when and how will the substitute traffic come about? And if the answer to the second question is not an unambiguous 'yes', how can we arrange transport to replace unprofitable routes? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u80	Mr President! With regard to what is the responsibility of society towards those routes where transport itself does not pay off, of course, in such a vast country there is also a need for social support. As far as the past is concerned, this attack on the repair debt is now exceptional and should be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u81	Madam President! In 2013, the expert report recommended that opening up to competition, if any, be done in a calm and gradual manner. What is Minister Berner doing now? Opening in six months. One might ask whether the government has not already noticed enough over the last few months that without impact assessments, massive decisions should not be taken hastily. Madam President! On our best stretches, the capacity is already full. When it says here that our services are being improved, the question is that these full capacities are good enough for private companies for cream peeling, for profit, but who in this vast country drives the shares in which transport is not profitable? I think it is right, as a representative of the Parliament in Helsinki, that traffic in Southern Finland also supports the transport of less populated areas. If we go to this cream peeling model,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u82	Mr President! I have had to speak here on several occasions about the fact that the government divides Finnish society in two, whether it is the pensioners, the unemployed, families with children or the future of children from the point of view of early childhood education or basic education. I would like to say that this policy of transport from the government is a negative approach to the equality of citizens and a problem for the attractiveness of regions and cities. I would also like to refer to that speech by Mr Arhinmäki and ask whether there has been an impact assessment as to how much these savings, cuts in the state economy will affect the regional economy or the local economy in those regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u84	Madam President! It was very enlightening to hear that also the President-in-Office Arhinmäki accepts the competition for passenger transport. It was just a small question of the timetable for opening it up. So, in this sense, we have a very large consensus on this issue. I believe that Minister Berner has taken a very determined step towards reforming this transport sector. We all know: it is well regulated and bureaucratic. And I certainly trust what the Minister has said here. It is a matter of full confidence that the replacement measures needed for the shifts that are now ending by VR will be properly operated, in the same way that the legislation will be reformed in the form of this traffic arch project. It is historic that this government will spend around EUR 1 billion in the next three years to reduce the amount of the correction debt — about EUR 1 billion in total, which will bridge the debt that has increased over the last few decades. It is an issue worthy of recognition and an historic one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u85	Mr President! When Mr Rantakangas took the floor, I expected that there would have been heavy criticisms of the government that the provinces have been forgotten, that regions would be divided, that the provinces would be abandoned. That is what this proposal from the Central Minister for Transport is all about. And you can only imagine the representative of Beachkangas who, during the last period, would have terrierly attacked this division of land. Mr President! Representative Rantakangas also listened to what I said very clearly. I said that when a possible opening to competition was examined in 2013, the experts said that if this is done, it should be done calmly and gradually. Minister Kyllönen, who defended the provinces, was on the side of sparsely populated regions. What did he do? The exclusive agreement was extended until 2024. Kainuu thanks, Northern Finland thanks and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u86	Mr President! That is where Mr Alatalo said that during Minister Kyllönen 23,000 bus shifts were cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u89	Mr President! Well, it does show that there are two wagons downtown.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u92	Madam President! It is clear that free competition, if it succeeds, can improve the services of citizens. That is a good thing if the government is planning to do this, but the question is whether this is well planned now. It just seemed that the first decision was taken, then there was criticism, then it was realized that maybe we should find a replacement solution, and it was good that we were looking for a replacement solution. Minister Berner, what concerns many of us is whether this is actually in hand so that in March everyone will certainly get to work and study. So far, not all of us have been able to convince. You've made promises. I also hope that Mr Mayo Aalto will be able to answer these questions because many of us are wondering how to get this right and how to get it under control. Many of us are also wondering how to get a functioning market, which suddenly creates those operators who are able to provide those services in such a short term. If you could just open it up a little, where these operators are suddenly coming to our market so that we can get that supply side right. Answers to these are hoped for. Many citizens also wish for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u93	Madam President! VR has also made environmental promises as a company. In practice, VR's policy on emissions, energy consumption now means that while VR improves its own image in environmental matters, it transfers passenger passengers from smaller stations behind the back to another mode of transport, i.e. passenger car use, as we have heard in more than one speech. The abolition of VR train services cannot in any way be considered compatible with the emission targets set by the European Union, the State of Finland or even the regions or with sustainable development. Minister, you have an irony experience in business. When you were operating in the business world, you were used to doing two or four-field analyses before making important strategic decisions. My question is: did this four-field analysis have not been carried out before the decision to terminate the train services came into being?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u94	Madam President! The SDP is a touchingly good guardian. Of course, that conscience seems to keep waking up in the opposition. Last season I was reminded of the thousands and thousands of cold bus stations and stops above all along the roads that lost that bus service and those people at the same time. Mr Arhinmäki, from your party ranks here in the Chamber, that is, in the main house, it was said that you should not drive on empty buses. Well, of course it's not worth it. But that attitude was palpable as to who carried the sides of the provinces or public transport. Mr President! The investments have been frozen. VR's competitiveness has deteriorated as buses travel faster than trains from Oulu to Kuopio, for example. This problem has already arisen when the debt to repair has not been taken care of. Here we go. When, Mr Lindtman, you said that there will be no change during this government and in the centre, it will now come through these very investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u95	Mr President! If you look again at this continuation of the foolish blanket that the government is carrying out, then, firstly, these savings in these transport investments are permanent and then temporarily imported a few hundred million per year. The end result is that if you look at the whole of transport investment, the level of investment will be one billion lower for this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u98	Mr President! It is quite true that the representatives of the centre of parliament in the provinces reproached Minister Berner so much that I was terrified of a shy opposition man, The greatest battle in my political career has been the train rebellion in Kemijärvi. With the cooperation of regional operators and the province, we were able to save the train connection, and later a decision was made to electrify the entire section of the railway line right down to the area of the pulp mill. Since then, there will be hundreds of new jobs in the area. This is a model example of how transport infrastructure can directly support business and employment. Minister Berner, when your policies are so worrying, can you give a guarantee that there will be no new threats to this train connection in Kemijärvi?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u99	Mr President! For the Social Democrats, the election slogan for the next parliamentary elections is ready. It's "nothing can change." It has been said here that the government is now investing historically in the network of routes, i.e. the correction debt is clearly closed for the first time. This has never happened, as I recall. As regards train services, as an example, train services via Haapamäki can be replaced by bus traffic on a market-based basis. After all, this will save the State savings when the subsidised traffic reaches market conditions, which will also become tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u100	Madam President! 93% of passenger traffic runs on rubber wheels. It is mainly commuting by passenger cars. There are those who pay for unprofitable train traffic, so someone always pays for the unprofitable train. I have wondered with what passion the SDP wants to hold on to the car tax and discipline those working Finnish workers who have to have a car to get to work. I wonder with what passion the SDP wants to chastise these working people. The Coalition Party wants to encourage these people. That is why fuel taxation is not being raised. That's why we've tried the scrapping fee, which became a success. That's why they make a discount on car tax. This is why investment is being made to cover the transport network's repair debt, with a huge historical investment of 600 million plus 364 million in key projects. This is then on the reverse side that if there are stations with only four passengers per day,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u101	Representatives Henriksson and Krista Kiuru, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u102	Värderade fru talman! Det är klart att fungerande infrastruktur är viktigt för alla människor i vårt land, och också för vårt näringsliv. Framför allt det exportinriktade narringslivet behöver hamnar, jänvägar och fungerande flygfält för att kunna stärka tillväxten i vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u103	Mr President! Yes, I have had to take my breath back and wonder how this great transport policy line of the Parliament has suddenly changed during this reign. I must say that the turn of the coat has never seen what the Finns and the Centre have done before. We have suddenly moved on from transport policy as a whole to thinking that the market would save transport policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u106	Minister Berner, three minutes from that podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u107	Mr President! Since the first day I received this assignment, the decision on the purchase traffic cut has been known. During the negotiations on VR's purchase traffic and its cuts, we immediately got to the point where we negotiated the result much better. The decision to make public transport as strong as possible and a policy to improve it throughout the country was also an obvious consequence of the cuts to be made. We will not leave the provinces, nor will we leave public transport — on the contrary. It will die, especially in the provinces, if we do not develop it, and this government will develop public transport through the new round of traffic project. The decision to open the competition was also made immediately during the summer. It is part of the Government Programme and it is also part of our project to develop transport as a service. It is also part of our digitalization project. Several impact assessments have been carried out and are still being carried out. Competitive operators have been found in several countries and have also been visited. The negotiations with VR are ongoing and are being further developed. All the time, joint solutions are sought and discussions are held with all industry representatives. We would also like to cooperate with this Chamber, if that is possible. In the meantime, it has been ensured that replacement solutions are created, and genuinely sought, sought and negotiated solutions. Replacement traffic is in the process of being created for all the buying-in routes that are now being closed down. This traffic is generated in bus mode for all connections except for the Y train. In the case of the Y train, negotiating intervals have been established between HSL and Siuntio. All bus services which are now being phased out through purchasing traffic will be supplemented by compulsory transport. Thus, at all points of contact, a train will move. It is also the starting point for opening up this competition. Competition can be opened without legislation. Obligations are made and added in a contractual manner when someone is given the right to operate our rails. Competitive tendering means better service, more connections. This government is not retreating from purchasing traffic cuts but is seeking genuinely growing solutions. This government will do everything in its power to ensure that rural areas also receive better services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u108	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u109	Mr President! Mr Kopra and Mrs Rantakangas, you yourself know that this is a much bigger issue than 15 million. When you criticized that this intermediate issue has been made somehow of small sums and small things, this is about the services of men and the vitality of the provinces. Congressman Beachkangas, I'm horrified. North Karelia, among other things, is on the road because of the cuts in purchasing services, and you say that the opposition is clinging to the lillukas. For us, this is much more than a lily stalk. Overall, the vitality of the province depends largely on smooth transport connections and education, and, good government, you are cutting both. Mr Berner, as far as the future rail transport in the provinces is concerned, are you aware of any further abolitions of train services at the moment, and can you promise us today, during this debate, that this dismantling of regional policy will no longer take place?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u110	Mr President! In this debate, there has been less evaluation of the significance of VR's excessive dividend income in the last parliamentary term. If its balance sheet were stronger and more competitive, would it now be better able to organise these services on these unprofitable routes? It is therefore worth bearing this in mind in the opposition parties. My question relates to the fact that, when this network plan is drawn up, whether we should now listen to the interests of the regions and regions so that, for their citizens and customers, we can find a major mode of transport that should be developed which would enable business, people and others there to obtain the service they want. Not all options may be able to be maintained, therefore one should be chosen. And, of course, from the point of view of the conditions, the fact that the network is maintained is the first thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u111	Mr President! Railways are in a small position in society like the blood vessels in human beings. They are essential for the genuine development of society as a whole in a very large country such as Finland. From this point of view, what is now being decided at VR is not at all irrelevant, nor is it a lily stump. If these VR purchase service cuts are carried out, it means that a large part of the tracks can be rolled in central Finland. Even within the government, part of you understands this. The Minister for Reform, Mr Vehviläinen, said in his newspaper interview that he did not consider it acceptable that rail transport should be abolished and then tried to replace it with bus services. But apparently the government has stopped working in this open office so that information is no longer passed between ministers. This decision on the train is important for the balanced regional development of the country, and when you always ask for an alternative, there is now a concrete alternative: one-tenth of the reduction in car tax can be used to reduce this issue of balanced regional development.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u112	Mr President! The government's promises of replacement shifts are great, but unfortunately this has not happened in reality. Five train shifts were cancelled between Savonlinna and Parikkala. They had to be closed at the beginning of November, and suddenly the closure came on October 25th, and despite the promises, no shift has been replaced by other traffic between Savonlinna and Parikkala. In practice, this means that the Savonlinna people, for example, will no longer be able to take the train to Helsinki for work meetings in one day, which means that the change to the past is huge and big. Mr Taimela's concern about the continuity of the closures is also justified, as I have heard that new savings decisions and information on the closures will be coming from VR next week. I would like to ask the Minister whether this information is correct and, if so, what is next on the closure list?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u113	Madam President! The reform and opening up of the transport system to competition is a very bold and big reform. The Transport Arc project responds to this change in the world and brings new thinking and technology to transport services, and it is really important for Finland to be in the forefront. Digitalisation, which is only taking its first steps in the world, is a real opportunity for Finland, and long distance travel in the country plays a crucial role in the country's economy and competitiveness. It would be desirable for this project to achieve a result which will also find solutions for transport in urban areas, so that public transport is genuinely market-based and is a genuine and attractive option for more and more people. I hope that this debate in the Chamber will look constructively to the future and forget the threats that may exist from today's point of view and reflect on the possibilities that this will bring.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u114	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma has just rightly said that this rail network is like blood vessels in a human being. Well, we humans take care of these blood vessels so they don't calcify. I understand that the opposition is asking intermediate questions, but now I really do not understand this content, because now this vascular system, this rail system, is in such bad shape when we go east-west. I would have understood, and I could have even agreed with the intermission when it was said that it was not being corrected, why it is not being repaired, that money should come into it. The whole railway network must be made so that it does not cause accidents because of its poor condition. If nothing is done about it, there will be accidents, and we must now invest in them. In addition, be kind and see what replacements have been made. There are replacement shifts. Representative to Arhinmäki: now you should see where those trains are going — they are actually going in those provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u117	Mr President! Yes, these proposals have been made on how to improve the functioning of this vascular system. For example, a proposal has been made from North Karelia to electrify the Joensuu-Pieksämäki connection, which would clearly save money for train traffic. There has also been a proposal that the railway line should then go all the way to Kainuu and then cooperate with tourism companies in the region in order to develop rail transport. We have not received any answers to these. Now I ask the Minister how we deal with this development. Secondly, you said that, in any event, the conditions for the maintenance of rail transport will be safeguarded until this tendering procedure is carried out. Did I see you in North Karelia, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u118	Mr President! It's been an important conversation today. It is wonderful that every party is on the side of the provinces today. Of these contributions from the centre: I am sure it is understandable that we should start discussing the fact that what happens to trains when VR unilaterally terminates these shifts,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u121	Värderade fru talman! When the decision to stop these train lines came, there was a great deal of talk about alternatives: buses, digital call systems, private train operators. Well, where are we today? To date, no bus company has been in contact with the Ely Centre and has provided transport connections to Siuntio, for example. Today it also turned out that there will be no private train operators on the track in March. Well, that is what we knew — it is good that the Minister now understands. Private transport itself is not necessarily a bad thing. This has been compared with the liberalisation of telecommunications in the 1980s, but it was not done at the time that telephones were closed in part of Finland and that people were urged to use a carrier pigeon while the government was thinking about it. Yes, these must be done properly, prepared, considered, studied the facts and negotiated with the municipalities, because this is about people's lives, schoolchildren's education, people's work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u122	Mr President! Today's news is that the government and Minister Berner withdrew on this interim issue in relation to purchasing services. Minister Berner flashed EUR 5 million on the lines which you originally intended to abolish in March.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u125	Mr President! That's right. In my opinion, VR made a completely absurd decision to operate. We have now heard clearly what the demarcation concept of the alternative is. The demars' view of the alternative is therefore that when the regional councils send us a message. Okay, that's an interesting option. The only thing I have heard about the Parliament of the Demares is that car tax cuts are cancelled time and again in development aid, education, transport policy, and time and again. How much is it gonna take? I look forward to your realistic alternative. On the background: car tax cuts were partly imposed by the EU,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u128	Madam President! It is clear that there are passengers between Siuntion and Helsinki, and VR will consider how to proceed. I too think it would be great if the Y-train could continue, but as has been said, if there are alternative means of transport, such as a bus, why not use them? You'd think that if there were any passengers, then that traffic would be created. But I think that this is something that needs to be clarified. But more importantly, I think that we should focus more on discussing what should be done in this traffic cycle and how we will reform this Finnish transport system in general to meet the challenges of modern times. As we can see, we're having trouble with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u129	Secretary Berner will answer for one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u130	Mr President! Indeed, there is no replacement for the Y train. This connection is not profitable even for bus and coach operators at the moment, and since this link has not been established, as a replacement for rail transport, we have looked at what other solutions could be found there. Contrary to what you say, I have had a number of discussions with the Siuntians and the Siuntio administration and have been there all morning last Saturday. I know very well about that situation. But Siuntio is at this stage rather than relying on us to seek these solutions together, asking the Ministry of Transport and Communications to delegate powers to the authorities in relation to rail transport in relation to them, the municipality itself. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is ready for this, and that means that the responsibility for organising transport will be transferred to the municipality of Siuntio.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u131	Madam President! As we have heard today in this Chamber, Minister Berner is looking for and also finding replacement solutions for train duty cuts. Thank you very much for your work, full confidence in it. The fact is that public transport has long been in a spiral of obsolescence in Finland. The budget is limited. In practice, the budget has been the same for about 10 years and every year at least the bus and coach services have been reduced by about 3%. It has been suggested here by the SDP that the centre has forgotten regional policy. Indeed, we are concerned about the traffic in the provinces. Mr SDP, what are your proposals for the development of public transport? Do you really think that nothing needs to be done?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u132	Mr President! I had to wonder if I heard right when I was here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u135	Mr President! It is very interesting to hear the SDP's position on this regional policy, the dismantling of regional policy and so on. I myself come from the region of Upper Pirkanmaa and I looked at that downfall very hard during the last term of the government. We had two garrisons left, 500 jobs left the neighborhood, and the government left. Bus shifts were almost stopped in that area. Among other things, I was in contact with Minister Viitane on the development of our fibre networks. He welcomed me well, but nothing happened. The current government has started to build fibre optic networks in our area. That's a great thing. Now we have 600 million more road projects. I hope we can cover up those pits too, which means that it is the main network, the railway network, the capillary is our road network. It is very good to hear from the Minister today that we have alternatives. We're in the middle of negotiations. We have alternatives to replacement shifts and replacement train shifts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u136	Mr President! The government's transport policy seems to be as confusing and poorly prepared as any other policy, but I hope there will also be regretting exercises in this area. It is incredible that the central-wheeled government is driving down regional rail transport, and the argument is not that since the previous government abolished bus services, the train shifts are now being taken. There has been talk here that the government is investing in the transport infrastructure. But what do we do on the tracks if there's no traffic? What do we do with the blood vessels if there's no blood in the blood vessels? It must also be borne in mind that bus transport is different from rail transport. It has a different use and has higher emissions. Bus traffic can never completely replace train traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u137	Mr President! The decision to cut these commuter services will paralyze the provinces, along Finland. As far as the situation in Siuntio is concerned, the municipality and the decision-makers in the Helsinki region have now been forced to seek a minimum replacement solution. It is so small that it will not be enough in the future. We need at least the current level of Y-train transport because of people's working life, school attendance and day-to-day cycling, and also for climate reasons. On the other hand, I would like to thank the government for the decision to invest in repairing the networks. Roads and tracks have to be set up. For example, in this case of the beach track, the Turku trains have to go slowly in places just because of the poor condition of the network, which means that this is exactly the kind of urgent fix the destination, and also a couple of bypass tracks there, so both the commuter trains and the long-distance trains will be able to travel much more smoothly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u138	Värderade fru talman! Jag visste naturligtvis inte viika förhandlingar ministern har fört med Sjundeå kommun och därför frågade jag. Det är bra att man har fört sådana förhandlingar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u139	Madam President! Indeed, in this opening-up of competition, it is absolutely essential that these market players be held responsible for those potentially unprofitable routes in the provinces, and you stated this contractual way, i.e. through the agreements, to build it. I am sure you will have excellent lawyers in that department, but you should be careful, and I would be happy to present this compensation fund model, because it can then easily be considered that when you act on a contractual basis with others, VR’s contractual terms and the state support given to VR will then be considered to be contrary to EU agreements from the point of view of competition neutrality. So I'm sure this will have to be an excellent study of how to do this. In the case of postal services, it was fucked up, as I said earlier in my speech. Now we can't afford to make the same mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u140	Mr President! The reason for this, Minister, is the deep concern about the future of public transport and, above all, the will to develop it. The worst blow, or fate, is, above all, that we stop cross-border traffic from Finland in many places, and it has very great significance not only for the equality of citizens but also for the vitality of the regions. If, for example, Tampere-Keuruuu- ja Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Seenjoki traffic stops — or ceases in 2015 or 2016 depending on how these agreements are created — then it is not just a matter of passenger traffic; it is a question of the fact that if traffic stops on the track, it will, in time, lead to the derailment of the rail system and will also have an impact on the possibilities and performance of freight transport. And freight transport in these areas is also a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u141	Mr President! Road network repair debt has accumulated an untenable amount during previous government periods – In Päijät-Häme, almost the entire road network needs repair. The southern ring road of Lahti, via Hollola and Lahti, is one of Finland's most important highways and has been waiting for a state investment for years. Hollola and Lahti are trying to lead the way in finding innovative transport solutions, and both have offered a new 12 project as a pilot platform for testing the new financing model and for the government to make use of 28% of municipal funding for the project. The project requires new legislation and a new approach to the implementation of major transport projects. Do you see, Minister, that this type of innovative project has the potential to take place more quickly and effectively in this tight economic situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u142	Madam President! Transport must respond to people's needs, and now the point of departure of the intermediate issue is that we are committed to a single means of transport and we are concerned that people will be able to take the train when we have to look at the need for people. In other words, there is a need to go to work, to school, to study or to other activities. And especially when it is done with taxpayers' money, their solutions must be economical, sustainable and far-reaching and then environmentally friendly. I am a little disturbed by the fact that, in principle, a train is always considered to be environmentally friendly and that a passenger car is considered to be environmentally dangerous. After all, a train is not environmentally friendly if it drives almost empty. VR has a lot of shifts where, for example, on the way back, the train is almost full, but the return journey is empty. It is not an environmentally friendly mode of transport then. On the other hand, for example, existing passenger cars may well be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u144	Mr President! Mr Jokise's speech is somewhat surprising in that our public transport is made up of different forms, that there is bus transport, that there is rail transport, that there is water transport, that of air transport, and now the government is going to stop rail connections from central Finland altogether. One option is gone. Well, that's all there is. I would just say that today's biggest news is what Mrs Feldt-Ranta said: that the Minister announced that under pressure from the mid-term issue and from bad preparation, the government has changed its previous opinion, that there will be an increase of 5 million in compulsory transport, but then the cut will be 15 million. Tell me where this $10 million comes from or which tracks will be rolled. The concern expressed by Mr Ihalainen in the area of freight transport that these lines are not being used by passengers is justifiable. So I know from experience: It'll be three years if there's no traffic on the track and no maintenance. Then you can roll 'em up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u145	Then, Minister Berner, three minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u146	Mr President! The government is very consistent. It has known that there is a need to cut down on purchasing traffic. We also know that, as a society, we are investing EUR 1.3 billion annually in support of public transport. This too is something that we will have to cut in the future. In order for the cuts not only to cut down on services, but to genuinely make it possible for us to reform and increase the number of services, we need to genuinely reform this system. Our poor economic situation, our demographic development, climate change demand that we develop public transport more and more and ensure that it works everywhere in Finland. In this context, the Government has not decided to come up with the idea that these services are now being operated in the form of compensation transport, but that the Government has genuinely wanted to give space to public transport bus companies to apply for genuinely compensatory solutions, to provide services, knowing that, if necessary, the Government will always have the means to find the means to repair traffic where it does not arise. And that is what we have done. We have also said now that compulsory transport will be used in such a way as to complement replacement bus transport. I repeat: train traffic as compulsory traffic will be carried out at the contact points where it would otherwise cease to be purchased, with the exception of the connections between other systems that will result in the creation of train traffic. The aim is to ensure that a common solution emerges, whereby replacement bus transport and compulsory transport will allow us to move smoothly towards a wider service and service network when competition is genuinely launched. At the same time, we want to ensure that all modes of transport in Finland develop: train traffic, bus traffic, taxi traffic, but also cycling, walking opportunities and driving. We want to ensure that distribution trends are taken into account, and we also want to enable entrepreneurship and the fact that there are others who are willing to invest in transport other than taxpayers. That is our job, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u147	I understand that there is still a desire to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u148	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for many answers. However, a few more questions remained in mind. If the aim of the reform of transport policy is market economy and the liberalisation of competition through the dismantling of restrictions and controls, then I would also like to ask three specific questions this time. The first question is: how does a decentralised market for different actors support coordinated public transport development projects of importance to society? Question number two: how to improve the coordination of different modes of transport, for example through integrated ticketing systems for travel chains? Question number three: how to secure continued investment in the transport system, especially where the market value of transport connections is lower? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u149	Mr President! Minister, rail transport is a very important means of commuting and study travel for young and older people. It's safe. And now, when you look at these disbandable routes, rail routes, for example, if, from the Joensuu-Security range, where some 100,000 passengers have travelled a year, everyone moves to bus and coach transport, it means 2000 more buses to 23, which is a very heavy road distance. In what way will this increase road safety and improve passenger safety there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u150	Mr President! Mr Berner, you have decided to abolish train services and favour buses. I come from Eastern Finland, and the reduction of train services significantly undermines the accessibility of our regions by making business and business trips more difficult. Deteriorations cause significant human and economic problems for local and leisure residents and businesses throughout Eastern Finland. The abolition of these entire train routes from the provinces and the thinning of train traffic between growth centres are indeed an unprecedented departure from regional policy. Why does the government, by its own decisions, create growing regional disparities and increase regional injustice? Has the centre now completely abandoned regional policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u151	Mr President! It is true that when the previous government cut down on public transport, I think of my own region in Lapland, so there has hardly been much of that public transport in the countryside, nor has the previous measures helped it much. Now, however, things have been raised, calling traffic, a variety of developments, how we can get new ones to those regions that have no longer had public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u154	Madam President! This is where Mrs Karimäki raised the issue of the proper functioning of this network. That was fine and positive talk, and I would like to comment on this myself. Basic routes, gravel roads, bridges, main routes, their maintenance is of the utmost importance at the moment. How bad is the Finnish road network? It is a good thing that we are investing in key projects and in reducing the debt to repair by EUR 1.6 billion by 2018. These fast spots we've been doing for years, they don't last. The renewable holes in the road are even worse. We have already heard that road safety has deteriorated. By the end of August, we will have as many deaths in traffic as we did last year, so we still have a lot to do. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, how the road network rehabilitation issues are going to proceed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u155	Mr President! Throughout the last period, the current opposition parties made a very centralist policy in the government and seemed to only be interested in these major railway projects in the metropolis. In some ways, I find it confusing to hear this, you are now the great oars of regional policy. But so much I say that Mr Kalli spoke perfectly well about the fact that VR has made a profit during the last government and there was a lot of money being pumped out to the government, that is to say that this crisis was also caused, and we have to ask: has VR's pricing been correct? For example, if two people leave by car, they will drive more cheaply than VR tickets. Now, fortunately, VR has had to meet its ticket prices. So, then, would the competition be the answer to this question as well? It is a very good thing that the Minister specifically points out this compulsory transport, that it supports those areas, those tracks that are not profitable on market terms, and that it maintains — it is regional policy, and it is important — and also not to peel cream, but to give a super shift to a private operator, it must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u156	Mr President! Mr Alatalo referred to the fact that projects were under way, under way and under way during the last period and are still under construction. At the moment, there are no projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u157	Mr President! We must immediately seize Mr Uotila's TEN-T project. In the Kouvola region, the TEN-T project will be ready immediately if only the Committee on Finance and Parliament are in favour of it. It is precisely the railway project, the big logistics center, that is about to be born there, that there are projects. It is highly criticised here that this was now a regional policy, but the subject of the intermediate issue is the objectives of transport policy and its impact on the citizens. I see, at least, that this issue of the round of traffic, which Mr Berner has also presented here, is a good objective to secure public transport in rural areas, but also here in the city. We need to take into account the special needs of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, but especially these sparsely populated areas, where this maintenance of the basic routes and the assignment of debt to repair is an excellent project and I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u158	Mr President! In any case, it is clear that this kind of general public transport destabilization development must be brought to an end. This public transport as a whole must be reformed, and unfortunately it is not enough to allocate state aid or municipal aid to this whole. We need a lot, a lot, a lot of other changes. In that way, I believe that VR — who is somewhat familiar with the company — is ready to compete. I understand in that way that VR has been very badly developed in recent years, but it is also worth remembering in this debate what Mr Kalli said there, that yes last season, for example, in the interests of honesty, the government weakened VR's development potential through these additional profit cuts. Among other things, I remember that the 2013 result was cut almost three times as much as is now deducted from this purchase cut. So even last season's government base has to go in front of the mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u159	Madam President! In order to keep the whole country occupied, jobs are also needed, and in order to have jobs throughout the country, there is a need for transport, more than just passenger car traffic. To get behind VR's back that VR has made some decisions: I'll have to ask the party downtown who's in charge of owner guidance. I understand that Prime Minister Sipilä is at the moment, and I would like to see some influence, I would also like to see the Minister responsible for corporate governance taking decisions on what companies are doing. It is true that last season we had to take the entry into the state treasury, but at that time VR itself was also quite prepared for future investments. Now I do not know what it means and what it means to be able to invest, if it is known that the whole palette will be renewed, and after next spring it will not be known whether it will be possible to operate them again, whether there is any point in investing. We'll ask the Prime Minister when he gets off sick.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u160	Madam President! Yes, it is very important that transport policy can be reformed in Finland. It is important for our economic development, so that we have the transport routes working, so that these renovations can be made. It is also important because people's needs are changing and transport policy is being developed. The centre is developing transport policy throughout Finland, but we can no longer be in this Rhineland-Palatinate world, but the world has changed a lot since then. It is truly regrettable that VR has not remained or has not been allowed to keep up with the reform. It has often not remained a competitive alternative to people and has led to a lack of development of the number of passengers as important as it would have been. I think it is important that there is a minister in Finland who is able to reform our transport policy in this very challenging situation. In our Parliament, we should all give our support. Of course, every two weeks we can ask intermediate questions, as we do today, but let us not let that happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u161	Mr President! Before this debate, these transport policy decisions have also had the tragedy of the city centre, since so many representatives of the city centre have previously expressed their regret at the activities of their own minister this autumn. Minister Vehviläinen has also said that he does not believe that bus traffic can replace train traffic in North Karelia, and he has promised to do everything he can to ensure that trains from Joensuu to Varkaus and Nurmes are not stopped. I would have liked to ask the Minister what he has done, but when he is not here, so that there is no confusion for the people of North Karelia now, I would ask Minister Berner whether these trains, which are vital for North Karelia, will be maintained when your colleague from North Karelia assures me that these trains cannot be replaced by buses.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u162	Mr President! You, Minister Berner, have, with quite a big speech, been working on the reform projects and the reform agenda. It has, of course, also raised some nervous speeches earlier in the provinces, which have been mentioned a great deal. This is the kind of debate that can easily be characterised by blame, even though everyone has been responsible for these matters over the last few years. I do feel that, when we all want to defend public transport services, it is simply that the current concept of public transport services cannot be regarded as such at its present level, but that something must be done about the basic idea that it should remain in the country as a whole being viable. Something has to be done. Minister Berner has tried to do so under these very difficult circumstances. That was the introduction to my question. Mr Berner, what is the regional structure which you are now pursuing with the reforms that you have presented to us in these times of rather intense concentration?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u163	Mr President! Finland is a country of long distances. Many families have one car, two cars. I myself live in a locality that has not had bus traffic for 15 to 20 years. Without a car, it's impossible to get out of there. On this issue, we are concerned about how citizens will be able to move in the future. A well - conditioned and functioning road network ensures that our entire country will remain inhabited. It has been mentioned all afternoon that the whole country will remain inhabited. But what is the government doing? There will be no increase in gas tax, a reduction in car tax. EUR 364 million will be spent solely on basic infrastructure management and private road assistance. This will improve people’s ability to move by their own car, as it is a compulsory car. This means improvements for all motorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u164	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister a very specific question when you just suggested that, for example, it would not be worthwhile to replace it with a bus service, even if those customers were specifically there. How, then, would it be worthwhile to replace this rail transport in some other part of Finland with a bus, for example, when it is being reduced just because there are no customers? I do not think that this logic is working properly in this debate. Where there are customers, it cannot be replaced because it is not profitable, and where there are no customers, it is suddenly profitable. I think it would be a good idea for us to go through this in Parliament in this debate. Then I have to wonder a little bit about this duplicity that has occurred here. In the course of the autumn, representatives of the government parties in the provincial newspapers of all the world have now been barking at the solutions of the ministers and the fact that these train shifts must not be abolished. Then we come here to the Parliament's big hall and they say quite differently, so that there is a bit of a place here for the representatives of the government parties to look in the mirror, what kind of message to the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u165	Mr President! Transport connections to regions, regions and regional policy and well-functioning rail transport are a prerequisite for life. When I come from the north, I know that the central people of the provinces very widely share this same view. Now we have a common concern, for example, about how to organise the connections between Oulu and Kajaani when trains are being cut. They cannot be replaced by a bus at the turn of the hand, either because the basic cure money has not been secured for the year 22 and the road is not in order. For example, working on a bus is not like working on a train, where you can download your own communication equipment and so on. It is also crazy to cut traffic on the main track when hundreds of millions of euros have been invested in it together over the years and now, for example, shifts are being cut off between Oulu and Seinäjoki. It seems to me, Mr President, that this government's speech on the provinces is, to a large extent, bureaucratic. These self-government areas have now been launched as a result of the big noise, and it seems that we will get these governors' posts, but there is not much for ordinary people in those provinces when the stations are closed down.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u166	Mr President! As Mr Kääriäinen has said here, this government will now also have to make difficult decisions on the transport side, but when you look at the big picture that is the government's line, this government will mobilise the resources of the country as a whole. If you think about transport policy and these investments we make, even if they reduce the debt to repair, there will be significant projects all over Finland and up to EUR 600 million will be invested in mobilising the resources of this country as a whole. That is why you can only be a little surprised — and glad — at the fact that here, in the ranks of the SDP and the Greens, we are now very strongly in favour of the provinces and regional policy. This is why I am surprised — even though this is a positive thing — that this has happened overnight, when you became an opposition party from the government party, such a turn that the sled turned out to be quite different. Before that, the message from the previous government was that where you can't get a tram doesn't even pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u167	Mr President! Before the elections, we did not propose the abolition of these rail links.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u170	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Lindtman that, as I was talking about this big picture, what is the Government's policy on regional policy and the whole country's development policy, I did not talk about these individual rail transport solutions, which are partly unpleasant and difficult — they are now being done, something must be done. But I have to look at that big picture. And that big picture of the previous government of the provinces was quite different from that of this government. Amongst other things, the SDP has mentioned this social solution: this social solution was also one that respects the provinces. And, by the way, considering the policy of this government, for example, in transport policy, this is a matter of concern for mobilising the resources of the whole country. And that is why this line is quite different from that of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u171	Madam President! That's the limit of the previous government, too. If the previous government, Mr Salmon, made such cruel decisions against the provinces and sparsely populated areas, then you, as the Prime Minister's Party, are now fixing these solutions? I myself was in the government negotiations and I did not realise that you had proposed to reinstate or withdraw any of the decisions taken in this regard during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u174	Mr President! The policy of the Sipilä Government, which has been agreed and approved by the government parties, reflects precisely this abolition of the correction debt, i.e. the investment that will create the conditions for the development of public transport. And it has been said in the past that if trains do not run fast enough, they will not succeed in this race. And, Mr Lindtman, when you said in the past that we are not investing in new destinations: indeed, we are putting both the railways and the roads that sink them in order to be able to play in Finland in general. And that is the essential question. Mr President! Of course we also need new investments, and here I do want to encourage the government to look for the opportunities at the end of this parliamentary term to create new funding for new investments in the right way. Renovation investments must now be managed, but development investments are also needed, and in this, of course, the government must now be able to tell us what we are going to do in a very short time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u175	Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Jalonen and Mr Taimela, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u176	Madam President! When Finland's Transport Minister Kyllönen was in office, he secured an exclusive contract for VR until 2024. Now that the city centre has chosen a very narrow Finnish Minister of Transport as its Minister of Transport, he is trying to destroy this and already in a state of emergency in six months to open up to competition. What can competition at worst mean in a country that is considerably smaller than Finland and much more densely populated than Finland — in Great Britain? Competition has led to higher train fares, low fleets, crowded trains, even more late trains than in Finland, which is also possible, and increased public support for these companies, which are making a big profit at the same time. Is that what Mr Berner is trying to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u177	Mr President! Mr Berner has answered the questions put so clearly that the opposition has no more questions than there are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u182	Madam President! In today's debate, I would like to remind you that the VR Board has unanimously proposed that the overall impact of the austerity measures for the abolition of train services be genuinely investigated. It also unanimously required that, from the point of view of the vitality and development of the regions, there should be more detailed plans for the transport arrangements to be replaced before the termination of train services will take place. So all of this unanimously, including the representatives of the government parties. I believe that the least that the government can do now is to make these extensive impact assessments on the competitiveness and vitality of the regions in such a way that this whole is genuinely taken into account. I hope that you will do this, not for the opposition, not for the board of directors, but for the people of the regions. And at least one question remains to be answered. Minister Berner, we are still waiting for an answer to which province you are prepared to invest the promised 5 million that has been going on in the debate here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u183	Then Minister Berner, three minutes from the podium, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u184	Mr President! The Government's transport policy has been explicitly based on transparency. We have told about the early decisions on cuts in purchasing traffic precisely because we wanted to be open to the personnel in the middle of VR's core processes, but also to give room to participate in the development of this substitute traffic for those who have had the will to do so. Only purchasing traffic is the one that the government cuts. The Government will not cut rail traffic as a whole, and the train traffic will not stop in Finland, nor will it stop in vertical or transverse directions. This coordination will take place precisely in the future development of a new package of transport arc legislation, which will develop all modes of transport in a neutral manner and develop better services, better price levels and better solutions for the whole of Finland. Flag systems are precisely one of the key tools for combining these different modes of transport and for ensuring that customers receive comprehensive travel chains that are acquired and predicted through them in terms of price, time and their own impact on the environment. Purchasing traffic in Finland will not stop; on the contrary, we will continue to need the support of society. But it is also clear that, alongside it, we will need the private sector to invest and be involved in building the future from a transport perspective. The Government will support regional development, and the regional self-government solution will also make it possible, in many respects, for transport to take decisions by developing regions and by local decision-makers in the regions. It is the government's job to ensure that the conditions are maintained, and it is those conditions that we are building now that we will have in the future not only a network, investment in infrastructure solutions, but also investment in the possibility of service chains. The traffic cycle will also enable new financing models and new forms of transport revenue. It is quite clear that we need significant investment and major transport projects in the future. For TEN-T applications, the government is currently preparing a list of major investment projects, and we will link its reflection with the new financing models that we have promised to inform and report on this year's side, during December. The whole country will also be developed from an investment perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u185	Congressman Mäkipää. — Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u186	Mr President! This intermediate issue refers to the fact that the government would try to make it difficult to keep the whole of Finland inhabited by directing passengers from public transport to private cars, among other things, and that the government would endanger the export industry and economic growth. These issues, which are important for the vitality of the country, have been put at risk in many different ways over the years in previous governments. At least during this term of government there is a reduction in the basic maintenance debt, which has accumulated a great deal over several years as a result of neglect. A viable road network is a prerequisite for keeping the whole country inhabited, as is the prerequisite for the vitality and growth of industry and exports. The forest industry is the largest and most important industry in our country and will grow further with the development of the bioeconomy, among other things. Most of the raw materials in the forest industry, i.e. wood, run on a rubber wheel. Wood is transported along difficult forest roads through sparsely populated areas, where there are no railway tracks but decayed roads. People live along the same roads in sparsely populated areas, for whom a car is necessary and the only transport connection. If I did not use my own car, I would never make it to these plenary sessions. One of the key projects in the Government Programme is the reduction of the basic maintenance repair debt, which will be invested EUR 600 million in 2016-2018. It should now be remembered that money will also be allocated to repairing the roads of the more remote municipalities, not just the highways and the suburbs of the central cities. In addition, a total of more than EUR 350 million will be allocated between 2017 and 2019 from development projects to basic infrastructure management and private road grants. These are the measures necessary for the viability of the country as a whole and for economic growth. This has also been one of the points in our basic Finns program. The opposition has noted that the most congested sections of the network are reflected in a single-track network across the country. It is clear that the network must also be developed on routes that meet a growing need at national and international level, such as the main railway line from Helsinki to Oulu through Tampere, which is a key part of the TEN-T core network. Additional tracks on this route would be important for the overall industrial competitiveness of the country as a whole for the development of the network. Mr President! Discontinuations on trains are always bad decisions about who they happen to be. Important local rail projects have not been implemented because VR did not have the will. For example, the City of Tampere region would have an opportunity to do this on the current network and a clear need for commuting in the region. The dismantling of VR's monopoly and the opening up of commuter trains to other operators could allow for smooth local transport in urban areas, including elsewhere in the capital region. In urban areas, the development of commuter trains is necessary, and it must be possible to travel quickly and easily between regional centres along the tracks. Of course, there must be well-functioning public transport in remote areas, but from the point of view of the inhabitants there is a need for the most extensive renovation of the road network. The roads in Pirkanmaa have become familiar, and fortunately money has been given to the budget, and I hope that this money will be delivered to the periphery of both Pirkanmaa and other provinces. And at the end of the day, Since there has been no such real alternative to the opposition, I look forward to what our Minister of Transport has given to this vision for the future. Let us also develop free competition, introduce this round of traffic — it has taxis, invitations, carpools, if any — and hopefully these nice words will also eventually come true that every town from Hanko to Utsjoki could be relatively satisfied with transport policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u187	Mr President! I should like to thank the opposition for having raised this intermediate issue and for having given Parliament a good opportunity to discuss transport policy in the wider context. There is a clear need for it, because transport is a source of vitality, it applies to all Finnish people and it is a prerequisite for business and our exports that transport and transport networks work and the transport network is in order. That's why we're in this together. The concrete and foundation of this government's transport policy was cast during the last parliamentary term in the joint task force on reparations, which was parliamentary. The work left Parliament's Transport Committee, which sought solutions and models for the correction debt and how it was managed. In other words, the Committee on Transport put that work in motion, and it was then taken under the leadership of the ministers, with representatives of all the parties involved. It was done in a strict and good spirit and came to the conclusion of a unanimous final report on the basis of which this new government programme has now, for example, been taken away from this additional EUR 600 million to pay off the debt of correction, which the government will complement with that EUR 364 million of key project funding. In other words, we have started to move together in this respect and we are at the beginning of the path that will then improve our transport network. There were a few other important issues in the report of the corrective debt working group which are still unrealised but also under consideration. In other words, one of the top points was that we must now look for financing models for new large-scale transport investments that can be used to finance private money, investments in municipal areas, investments by business operators, and then the state will also be there to leverage these issues forward. Minister Berner has well put this model report into circulation and has promised that by the end of this year these funding models will be able to be evaluated. At that point, it is very important that, when that assessment is made, a financing model is selected and piloted, tried out how they work in practice, and let us see how we will be able to develop the transport network in the future. Although the economy is tight, we must not forget the future and the big investments, and the government is not going to forget them. This is where we move on. Then the third thing that came to the fore in this parliamentary report was that we must strive for this kind of structural reform, which will be drawn up on this kind of long-term, for example a 12-year, transport policy target plan and commit to the idea of how traffic will be developed during the next three parliamentary term, what goals will be set. A model such as this is in place in Sweden, for example, and it is absolutely necessary. It cannot be that transport policy is always changing in terms of transport investment at the turn of the government term. We need a reliable long-term plan that can then be relied on by industry and the regions, and if it is taken forward, for example, with such a interlocutory approach, a commitment to improve a link, and then the regional and business actors who work between them will become involved in the planning and then target the investment needs accordingly, then we will be able to make good progress here. And that is what the government is doing now, and at least I personally feel that there is also strong support for it for the present opposition parties, and that is what it must be — there is a common cause when transport policy is being taken forward. Well, today's conversation. I am a little surprised that there has been such a spirit here from the opposition that this train traffic will sustain these stations at any cost. There are 28 stations where passenger traffic would end, and there half of those stations are such that only 20 trips a day are made. So 20 journeys, that means 10 people if that person comes back. I guess it can't be that we like it at all costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u188	Mr President! The SDP has proposed cancelling the cut in purchasing traffic by taking the money from the discount on car tax. Why? Because otherwise there is an ideological dismantling of regional policy. The decision taken under the leadership of the centre is disastrous for the development of regions and regions. The regions will be closed down by train and the number of shifts between growth centres will be reduced. Regional airports are under threat, and Finnair's sales are already speculating. It is hard to believe that the government, under the leadership of the central prime minister and the Minister of Transport, has decided to close the transversal train traffic in the provinces of Finland almost entirely. The national wealth tied to the lines will be lost, because where the train does not run, there will also be no rail service. That's where they scrape up to grow hay. Was there no one in the city to defend this kind of disintegration of regional policy? The central-driven government will end whole rail connections in the provinces. What does that mean for the equality of citizens, the attractiveness and accessibility of regions and cities? Will the damage to the economy of the regions exceed the government’s annual savings of 12.3 million in central government finances? I think they're crossing. So much for that and the vibrant attraction of the provinces and the services of sparsely populated regions. You, in the government, turned the decision to reduce the car tax and the decision to increase the vehicle tax and therefore this decision to despoil public transport services. They are now hitting a group of people, where the social effects should have been combed much more closely, including in terms of equality. But that's what you do in the government now, isn't it? Impact and cost assessments are continuously incomplete. We are already knocking on the boundaries of constitutionalism. The trains will be shut down, the buses will be put to death and the taxi network will be threatened as well as Finnair will be sold. The only thing left for the citizens is their own car, and not everyone can afford it. This is a repulsive, unequal income-sharing policy when it comes to making an equal transport policy and, in particular, a public transport policy. Why was the decision to buy traffic not influenced by regions or municipalities? What happens next, for example, in the area of air transport? Are the county fields already on the sales list? Competition is a good thing, but under what conditions, with what preparation and with what timetable? Transport should also take account of the needs of society, especially constitutional principles of equality. Why were not the provincial unions and municipalities even allowed to pronounce? Mr President! The Central Finland Federation considers the proposal to end transport purchases to be hasty, unfounded and based on limited business thinking. The North Karelian Federation has said: 'The abolition of train links cannot be based solely on the objective of saving the government programme. Railway infrastructure provides the best overall social and climate policy benefits when both people and goods are on the tracks." Etelä-Savo Regional Union has stated: "The reduction of train services significantly undermines the accessibility of Etelä-Savo by making business and business trips more difficult. The transport system forms a whole, the development of which is the responsibility of the public authorities and, in particular, of political decision-making." And the city of Ahtar: According to Ähtär, new arrangements for passenger transport should be scheduled at the earliest until the moment when passenger transport will be opened up to competition. In addition, the sections of the Haapamäki track have just been renovated for 40 years, as is the Ähtäri City Board. Similarly, Ähtäri compares the savings from the closure of transport with only EUR 4 million per year, according to some data. Madam President! Referring to the above, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you know what you are doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u189	Mr President! I cannot understand the government’s decision to almost paralyze train traffic throughout Finland. Local traffic in Eastern Finland almost completely disappears, cross-border connections in the whole country are being combated. Many students, for example, suffer from the closure of the Seinäjoki-Jyväskylä in the meantime. The railway traffic in Ostrobothnia and Central Finland will be reduced with a heavy hand. The price tag for the whole operation is EUR 15 million. The central government weakens the everyday lives of people in the provinces and the operating conditions of companies. The Government justifies savings with limited number of users, but this does not serve as a justification for the closure of the Y train in Uusimaa. Hundreds of people in Western Uusimaa travel daily on the Y train from Karjaa to Inko, Siuntio and Kirkkonummi to Helsinki. The maintenance of the Y train would cost only EUR 1 million to pay for well-being and smooth daily life along the track. No bus connection replaces the speed and streamlinedness of the train. On the contrary, the growing Helsinki region needs new commuter trains and not qualifiers. For example, Siuntio has planned new settlements based on train traffic on the coastal track. The government has failed the municipalities that have contributed to the planning agreed upon in the letters of intent. Today, the decision-makers of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have a solution that is acceptable to the board of HSL, which saves the Y-train from small parts of traffic. We get four shifts to Siuntio, but not to Karjaa and not on weekends. This is a temporary emergency solution, as the objective must be to restore at least the same traffic. The housing shortage in the Helsinki region is growing, and the need for affordable housing along good public transport connections is great. I want to spell out that commuter trains are a bottleneck for the speed of the Turku train. First of all, the tracks on the beach are in such poor condition that they cannot hold a steady high speed. Uusimaa has a lot of needs to improve rail transport. At the moment, only a charming museum train goes to Porvoo a few times in the summer. There is also a need for new rail lines for Eastern Uusimaa, where it will certainly make it easier to use and renovate the old rail bed for passenger transport. The electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track, on the other hand, is a project that promotes the mobility of residents, the transport of businesses, planning and exports. The electrification must proceed from plan to action. I am concerned about the condition of the tracks and the fact that, in connection with the plans to be abolished by the government, the track is now allowed to deteriorate in unusable condition. More needs to be invested in basic track maintenance. I therefore welcome the Government's top project, which will target EUR 600 million for the rehabilitation of transport routes. The deteriorating condition of railways and roads is causing dangerous situations and makes commuting more difficult. I was part of a parliamentary working group set up by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, where we sought solutions to reduce the transport network's debt. In December 2014, we presented a proposal to reduce the correction debt. We looked at the various funding models that we presented to be tried out without prejudice. I hope that the government will make use of the group's proposals in its top project. Although more emphasis is placed on basic maintenance, the development of a new one should not be left behind. The regional leaders of Finland have expressed their concern about the lack of long-term sustainability of Sipilä's Government in relation to major, necessary new transport investments. If we do not have a national vision of major transport projects in the next few years, we will lose the opportunity to make use of the related funding from the European Union. Public transport is a service for residents, and in a country such as Finland, in particular, it must be invested in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u190	Mr President! Regional rail transport is subject to severe cuts. Some of the spaces are slowing down, or the frequency is shrinking, and many stations are slowing down altogether. People have planned their homes and lives on the basis of transport connections. The accessibility of jobs and study places is an absolutely essential question for each of us. We don't all have cars, so public transport is essential to many of us. Transport connections play an enormous role in terms of the vitality of regions and regions and people's daily lives. These cuts and shutdowns on the train are no small thing or a sledgehammer. They can force people to move or change jobs. They may make it difficult for businesses and organisations to operate in the provinces and reduce the vitality of the regions and accelerate depopulation. They force people to buy cars and increase the number of private cars. They force young people to move to cities to study when it is no longer possible to walk from home. For example, Oulainen and Vihanti stations in Northern Ostrobothnia are partially quieted down as more and more shifts pass them in the future. This makes it difficult for people in the region to work and to do business and makes investments in stations partly unnecessary. Our valuable national ownership and investments already made are in many places under-utilised. The Minister explained that investments have been made in the distance between the Seinäjoki and Oulu, but it has not increased travel. This is real. But it must be remembered that the stakes in the interface have not yet been sufficient, even though they have been made. In order to make the connection gap work, reliable and fast, a double track would be needed for the whole connection, as passenger and freight traffic have congested the gap and made it unreliable. Especially between congested people Oulu-Liminka is needed a double track. The existing line can be repaired, but the performance of the line will not increase if no double track is obtained for the whole congested section. However, the stakes that have already been made will be partly wasted if the traffic is reduced. What do we do on the tracks if they don't have traffic? In many places, the problem of train traffic is caused by the fact that the railways are not in the condition to enable reliable and fast connections. This problem will not be solved by hasty tendering for rail transport. I repeat: rail infrastructure problems will not be solved by this competitive tendering process. The Minister explained that some of the posts to be closed could be replaced by bus transport. This is good, of course. However, it must be recognised that bus transport is not fully able to replace rail transport, because it is of a different nature and the positive impact of rail transport on the region is greater than bus transport and the environmental impact of rail transport is also lower than that of bus transport. It was great to hear today that the government will continue to practice penance in this area as well, and the Minister promised an additional 5 million next year in order to secure transport. So this interim issue has not been wasted either. With these decisions, the government makes life difficult for people and weakens the vitality of the regions. We must therefore ask that this is a good regional policy. I know that the reduction in car tax has been refocused on a number of targets in the opposition's speeches. But I think it is quite right to ask whether the euro used for the reduction of the car tax could not rather be used for public transport and cancelled these cuts in rail transport. This would be more environmentally friendly and more rational in terms of regional policy. A third of Finland's climate emissions come from transport, so transport policy is also important for climate policy. VR's operations and pricing policy as such can and is justifiable to criticise, but that does not justify these closures. A lot of train shifts are pretty empty. But instead of abolishing them, it would be preferable to consider price reductions and the development of timetables in a more customer-friendly direction. Finland is a sparsely populated country with long distances. If we want the conditions for life to continue to exist throughout the country, we need subsidised public transport. It is an illusion to imagine that rail transport in sparsely populated areas could be organised on market terms without public support. In the field of rail transport, the shifts in congestion areas are mainly attractive. What commercial operator would now be driving unprofitable shifts? If, therefore, the government is moving forward in its plans to tender for rail transport hastily already, it is necessary that, in order to prevent cream peeling, operators should not only have to take on profitable links but also unprofitable links. We'll see how many players show up. We must remember and remind the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u191	Värderade Herr Talman, Fru Minister in Absentia! Vårt samhälles grundpelare är förtroende, man ska kunna lita på att beslut bereds noggrant och öppet. Man ska kunna lita på att gårdagens beslut gäller aven i dag. Det ska finnas ett förtroende för att de förpliktelser som myndigheter ålägger medborgarna även gäller åt andra hållet. Medborgarna ska i sin tur kunna lita på beslutsfatta och myndigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u192	Mr President! I am not going to go back to the debate on what is the regional policy line of the previous government and this government or how these governments treat the provinces. Instead, I would like to encourage those who have spoken here with great concern about what the transport policy decisions of this government mean in terms of regional development and the development of the provinces: please continue with your concern for regional policy. I believe that if you truly think so, we will find each other, and if you genuinely believe so, it will certainly be reflected in the fact that Parliament will also unanimously accept the government's proposal to transfer, for example, the power of approval of the regional formula to the regional councils, that it will no longer have to be approved in that Ministry of the Environment, i.e. trust in that regional decision-making. And it will certainly also be reflected in the fact that Parliament unanimously supports the basic solution of the government, which is to build a multidisciplinary self-government area and in which regional development tasks will also be transferred there. I hope you will also support these solutions, because you are now so concerned about regional decision-making and regional policy. I believe that this will be the case. Mr President! There has now been a debate here on transport policy, above all rail transport, and that is very important. But we have to remember that our road network and its condition is a veritable vascular system for our industry, and its condition and functionality are absolutely vital for us to be able to develop business activities throughout Finland. In addition to this, I would now like to pay particular attention to air transport, which has only been slightly overlooked here. If we are thinking of our export industry, then in two respects our comprehensive airport network and functional connections are important: Firstly, the export industry, when it is located in the regions quite a bit. I will take an example from Lapland: the Kemin-Tornio region, the Meri-Lap area. There is 8 per cent of the value of Finnish exports, and it is extremely important that those who operate in the export industry should have access to the world. It can happen through Helsinki Airport, but the most important thing is that you can fly from Helsinki to the world to do business, develop a business and then bring it to Finland. But the other is tourism — it could be termed an export product and an export industry. When tourists come from abroad to Finland, they bring foreign money here, and from the point of view of tourism, accessibility, above all through air transport, is key. Now that air transport and the airport network are being developed, apart from the need to have a comprehensive network of airports, it must also be possible for foreign flights to come directly to the provincial airports, so that these changes in status do not affect the direction that some regional airports, for example, will not be able to take in the future. This is very important for Finnish tourism. If you think of tourism as an industry of the future, then we still have a huge potential to increase it. And it may be said that when we often wonder how much profitability we need to find in regional airports, a million dollars in air traffic often add 10 million to the population product through the growth of tourism. That is why I am also speaking here from a regional point of view and in favour of northern tourism and in favour of ensuring that, in the future, the potential we have for growing tourism, such as tourism in Asia, is not left unused because of the fact that, in some respects, air transport is being poked. I would like to highlight one chapter here, which relates to this tourism: this year, in December, there will be 400 direct charter flights to Lapland airports, three airports. That is a tough number, and we are really glad that this number is on a slight increase compared to last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u193	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! What would Finland look like, where transport policy is managed only on market terms? What would Finland look like, where only routes are operated that are economically viable? There have already been some criticisms in this Chamber today about some of the government colleagues, which is why these interlocutors are being asked. Well, when we talk about transport policy, we are also talking about the fundamental rights of citizens and our significant national property. When we talk about transport policy, we are also talking about regional, housing, environmental and industrial policy, and that is why this intermediate issue has been left behind. That is why we cannot just talk about the profitability of individual routes and stare at the income and expenditure of just one administrative sector. Transport policy cuts across all social activities. Therefore, the issues involved must be dealt with not as a single sector but as a broad social issue — that is why the intermediate issue. As a mediocre Finn, I know very well what these long distances and poor accessibility of different places mean. When I talk about Central Finland, I know very well that we still have a relatively good situation compared to the northerner Finland. Mr President! In the case of public transport, the objective of three "H" should be pursued. This means that public transport must be easy, fun and cheap. By being easy, I mean that people's services, hobbies and jobs should be accessible, especially in urban areas. By fun, I mean that public transport must be an easy and comfortable way of folding from A to B. With cheapness, I mean that public transport should be a genuine alternative to owning its own car where there are realistic conditions for organising public transport. The trains now on the closure list are used by people who are not allowed to drive a private car. Trains are used especially by young people, students and pensioners. Effective cross-border traffic has opened up a realistic and easy opportunity for young people living along it to study further: from Heinävesi to Joensuu, from Petäjävesi to Seinäjoki, from Shelling to Jyväskylä. Discontinuations are a huge blow to the equality of travel. Finnish companies need good transport connections to succeed both within Finland and internationally. I use my own province of Central Finland as an example. In order to make the most of the new bioproduct plant, the log must be able to travel smoothly from the forest to the factory. This requires the renovation of both the lower road network and the main routes to withstand a continuous truck flow. Mr President! The government also has good priorities for its key projects in this direction, and it is only regrettable that they are a little one-off. Individual transport projects also have a significant positive impact on public finances. For example, the Pisara railway would significantly increase housing production, employment and the value of the construction site. The dropra line would also benefit long-distance transport, as congestion at Helsinki Central Station, which affects the entire country's traffic, will decrease and the disruption of commuter trains will be reduced as long as the long-distance and commuter trains are separated from their tracks. Raide-Joker and Tampere express rail will also produce a multiplier effect much higher than the traffic benefits themselves, just like the Pisara track. If the aim of the reform of transport policy is only market economy and the liberalisation of competition through the dismantling of restrictions and guidance, then I see at least four big question marks. First: how does a decentralised market for different actors support coordinated public transport development projects that are important to society? Two: how to improve coordination between different modes of transport, for example through integrated travel chains and ticketing systems? Three: how to secure continued investment in the transport system, especially where the market value of transport connections is lower? My final point is four: how can we ensure that the social objectives behind transport policy mentioned in this speech are safeguarded? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u194	In about 10 minutes, we'll have a little bit of a debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u195	Mr President! It was nice to hear from the Green Representative that he supports the government's policy and policy that we should get the bioeconomy started. I fully agree that we need to get the theft out of there to the factories and get Finland in order. It's not gonna work on the drop-down track. You can build apartments in Helsinki without the Pisara track, and in Tampere you can also arrange public transport with great Finnish electric buses, because it runs only one place, and then you can guarantee public transport throughout the city. But to the epistle of the day. The threat of the abolition of passenger train expenditure, for example in Northern Pirkanmaa and elsewhere, has been a source of concern to the public, and I am pleased that Minister Berner is holding negotiations so that the trains under threat can continue in the course of next year. In any case, it was good to hear that replacement bus services are also on the way and that between Tampere and Keuruu it means even more provision. But, above all, what the Minister said is good that compulsory transport will not be abandoned, but will continue to be supported in areas where this market-based transport will not work, in rural areas and regions. In 2017, it will then be possible to start tendering, and of course it will not be a shortcut to luck, but if we have good private operators, then we may be able to try this and see how it will then be seen as a cost to the consumer. At least the finalists and others have assured us that they would be able to drive these shifts quite cheaply. But it also requires, of course, that we have a vehicle company removed from VR, and it requires that we cannot allow any cream peeling, as I have just said. We also have to impose obligations so that if a private operator gets a good super shift, such as Tampere-Helsinki, Helsinki-Tampere, then it must also continue from there to Keuruu, for example, and so we can secure these sparsely populated areas. We will also need those new investments on that side of the road, that is true. There were criticisms here, as I remember Mr Lindtman said. That is true, in this parliamentary term, the level of investment in transport from the state budget is lower than in previous periods, but it is because we now have to deal with the correction debt that the previous government failed to take care of, and that is why we are doing this at the beginning. These are huge sums of money, 600 million first to repair roads and bridges and also to the railways, and then 360 million from undesignated projects will be transferred to this correction. So they're already having an effect, and they're actually getting them into the factories. But new investment needs new financing models, as Mr Rossi said, among other things, that we must also involve private money in this. For example, we have a big project, highway three, the Tampere-Jalasjärvi gap, which needs to be fixed, and there are Hämeenkyrö bypasses and others. It is a freeway in Western Finland, and it should definitely be available for these funded projects, because the previous government dropped this from the baskets where it used to be. In fact, it is also important to talk about the fact that we are talking here about car tax, that it is now possible to cut back on car taxation, in fact, next year. This is because user charges rise by half more than this car tax itself. But the purpose of the car tax is to go to more environmentally friendly cars and safer cars. It is indeed climate policy in the sense of reducing emissions. We have a very old fleet of cars in Finland compared to the rest of Europe. It is also true what Mr Kalli said that earlier governments have in fact pumped money from VR and also caused this misery for VR. In other words, money has been taken into the state budget, and this has been one of the tricky things. And now we'll see. To that extent, we must set an example in Sweden. They have such a PTS transport policy. In Sweden, traffic is planned in long periods of time, and the new government does not always wipe the table on the lines of the previous government. And Sweden, by the way, has opened up competitive tendering on the railways. There are a large number of operators there, and by the way, the competitions are carried out by the counties, that is, by the provincial self-government regions. Now we have a good opportunity to follow the example of Sweden, when the wise government has made a decision on autonomous regions. Finally, it is true that 93% of people drive rubber wheels and pay for less than 10% of the people to drive on the tracks. That's the way it is. Rubber wheels also carry most of the goods. But it is a good thing that Minister Berner wants more passengers on the railways and opens up competition on the tracks. Public transport needs to be developed, and the traffic cycle will be a good tool for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u196	Mr President! The aim of transport policy is to ensure the functioning of daily travel, to maintain the competitiveness of business and to curb climate change by reducing emissions. Finland's remote location from the mainstream of European transport and logistics poses major challenges to transport policy. The transport system will be developed in a balanced way across regions, taking into account the needs of different population groups. Smooth and well-managed public transport supports transport policy objectives. ITS services, among other things, aim to continuously improve traffic flow and safety. The Government Programme states that Finland’s competitiveness is built on, for example, open-minded reform through experiments and digitalisation. The aim is to contribute to the emergence of innovation and service platforms in sectors where public administrations play a role in the functioning of the market. This sector is, for example, in the form of transport services. Legislative measures aim to promote the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business concepts. Open data and better use of data resources create conditions for new business ideas. The goal of the Government term is to increase non-emission-free renewable energy. The objective is to achieve a 40% share of renewable transport fuels by 2030. The Government will also launch a programme to reduce the repair debt of the transport network and spend approximately EUR 600 million on it, i.e. EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u199	Mr President! The impact of the Government's transport policy on citizens and regional access is an important issue, especially as mobility is an essential part of people's and businesses' lives. On average, the Finnish makes three trips a day. They last 80 minutes, mainly routine trips, and they accumulate 70 billion miles [70 billion km] a year. It is only natural that, against these figures, we assume that Finnish services operate cost-effectively and customer-friendlyly across Finland. That is why I am surprised that the main debate on the intermediate issue has focused on the 28 train stations where only 20 journeys per day are carried out in half of the stations. Part of the conversation was also an enormous amount of staring into the rear-view mirror. It was remembered what the previous and previous governments have done, and that rear-view mirror even grows so big that you can't see from the front window. Some speakers look at a crystal ball, which only gives rise to threats that more or less public transport will end in Finland as a whole during this reign or as a result of government action. However, it is not the whole truth, nor even part of the truth, but I think we should have focused more on the situation picture and how we are going to build a future public transport system. In my opinion, Representative Aalto brought out the three-hour model he developed, which described what people want from their services. It is a service promise that Finns are given, and it must also be that people are satisfied with it. As far as public transport is concerned, we know that the adequacy of shifts is very important, as is the continuity of timetables, stop-in-infos and pricing. We know that VR has lost a lot of passengers to buses exclusively because the timetables are not tight and the pricing is absolutely cheekless. Mrs Karimäki was referred to here in her speech to correct the beach track. That is justifiable, because I know from experience over eight years that the number of passengers has fallen very dramatically and the reason is that reliability is very low today. In his own speech, Mr Jokinen described how the parliamentary working party worked during the last parliamentary term, how a path could be agreed to reduce the debt of correction. The Transport Arc project is an excellent thing. In my opinion, fragmented legislation should be brought together. In this context, I would like to raise the issue of intelligent transport. When Minister Berner, in his opening speech, compared the transport sector with the liberalisation of the telecommunications market in the 1990s, there was a great deal of talk about cream peeling, just as we are talking about now, but the cream peeling customers. Services developed, and prices fell, and the Finnish consumer was satisfied, and I hope that the analogy will also play in this case. Then on this intelligent transport I would like to take an example from the Turku region, when Föli, the joint public transport operator, and its mobile ticket have received a great deal of recognition and awards, most recently in Slush last week, the award for the best mobile payment application. Here the ticket can be paid conveniently by different means of payment according to what suits you best, whether it is an invoice or a credit card sent home via the operator, and it is noteworthy that mobile payment lowers the threshold for the use of public transport when it is easy to buy a ticket. This has also been studied that men agree to use public transport more easily when mobile payment is possible. This company, which has developed this product, is currently receiving a prize in Barcelona, and they believe that Finland has excellent skills, a skilled workforce, and the private and public sectors have realised the potential of intelligent transport and transport transport. This is one area for future growth for us, as long as we dare to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u200	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Minister, for still being able to listen and answer our questions. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government invests in key projects. As part of this package, the Government will also launch a programme to reduce the transport network repair debt. According to the Government Programme, a one-off amount of EUR 1.6 billion will be invested in key projects and the reduction of the correction debt by the end of 2018. In transport policy, the Government will take care of both road and rail transport as well as transport routes along with other transport and communication tasks. It is a question of functioning and safe transport and communication connections and services essential for society to support sustainable growth by also enabling the use of new digital services. Mr President! The Government has proposed EUR 2.9 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for 2016. Structural reforms are also important for growth. These will prevent the future growth of the correction debt and enable new innovative approaches. In 2016, a new development project will be launched to improve the functionality of Helsinki railway yard. For example, investments will also be made in unfinished fairway projects. The construction of the West Metro continues. Investment in the purchase and development of public transport is also necessary in accordance with the Government Programme. In the long term, transport policy aims at a change that transforms transport into a comprehensive service. In this way, the proper functioning of journeys and transport must be given central attention. In these and all matters, the Government acts in a strategic and systematic manner. The implementation of the reforms will build on studies and studies and adequate impact assessments. The Government is committed to implementing the necessary reforms. Mr President! The railway network, the basic routes and the lower road network, with their sorates, require long-term maintenance. Finland has 52,000 kilometres of paved road. Coated and maintained road and rail sections are of great importance for daily mobility and the competitiveness of business. The condition of the transport routes also affects road safety. We have been able to monitor the deterioration in the condition of the road, and the situation on the roads comes from, among other things, professional drivers who travel on the roads all day long. Motorists will also contact you. The value of the road is estimated at approximately EUR 15 billion, and the value of the property needs to be taken good care of. Road speed spots are not the right solution; they cannot stand: renewable holes in the road are even worse. Deteriorated roads cause direct and indirect costs for taxpayers. In addition, human suffering will come. At this very moment, we have as many people killed on the road as we had last year combined. For pedestrians, this year is the darkest of five years. We have work to do to improve the general transport culture, to improve it, but also to ensure that no accident occurs because there is a hole in the road and the driver's car escapes, or because the motorist pokes his bike into an asphalt career. For busy roads, the appearance of central rails could also be one good thing we could discuss. This would increase road safety — this has been assessed. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have had a good debate here today. I think it has been a good idea to deal with and discuss the issue of the opposition here, because this has made the whole population aware of everything that is going to happen in transport in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u201	Mr President! "History is to be kind to me, because I'm going to write These famous words of Winston Churchill have also been very busy today, for today the MPs of the government parties, especially from the city centre and the Finns of Peru, have rewritten history. That is why it is good that we are having a line debate on the direction in which Finnish transport policy is being taken. One of the largest parliamentary parties is in fact the Transport Party, whose members are members of a very wide range of parliamentary groups. For us representatives of the Transport Party, it is common ground that we believe that transport policy alone, on market terms, cannot manage Finland. I think it has been wonderful that in this Parliament this transport party has been so strong that we have not given up even in situations where transport has not been easy to organise in areas where it is not market-based. That is why I share the concern as to whether it is worth arguing over what has happened before or to focus on the future. In that regard, I believe that this is appropriate for the recent words of Winston Churchill, who wisely reminds us that if we go into an argument about the past and the present, we will see that we have lost the future. Of course, the serious threat to this debate is whether we have enough vision. However, in that regard too, I think it is useful that an intermediate issue has been drawn up in the opposition in general on transport policy, whether free competition is the only way forward for Finnish transport policy in the future. I am particularly concerned about how we can brighten this vision of what future Finnish transport policy is going to pursue. I believe that the project initiated by the Minister to bring this transport legislation together under a single arc must be supported. We are in favour of this because we have already tried to put communication together under such a single simplified arc during the last term of government, which is useful. But what we are losing is, in the name of this traditional report on transport policy, a bigger, wider debate on how resources and objectives are to be brought together. Unfortunately, this is a debate that we must not have in Parliament this season, no matter what the name of that beloved child is. Mr President! I think it is very important today to talk about whether we believe that the emperor can be dressed in this way as new clothes have been put on today. So the city centre and the Finns I know have thought very differently about transport policy before. For example, before the elections, when we talked about competition in passenger transport — an example of this train debate — the dissenting opinion of the Finns of Finland was that "It has to be said that the liberalisation of passenger train traffic in Finland would, in the view of the Finns of Finland, lead to the so-called cream peeling phenomenon, where small and agile operators who came to the market with competition focus on a few of the most profitable sections of the track, and the state VR will ultimately have to deal with less profitable sections of the line, ultimately on the taxpayer's hands. This is unacceptable". That is what the Finns said last season. Well, even downtown hasn't made any different policies. In exactly the same way, in the last disagreement in the centre, the centre also left this very assumption for the budget report last season. That is why I find it a real pity that the money is being taken away from the Minister of Transport — that is to say, the money for purchasing and not politically prioritised in the government partners — and I am not surprised that the Minister now has the only hope of explaining this phenomenon that the Emperor does not have clothes, because new clothes are being put on in the name of this market-based transport policy. No, listen, this Emperor in his underwear — the public will see that there are no new clothes here to be dressed. But I understand this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u202	Mr President! Mr Kiuru had a very good starting point for this speech that it is not worth looking at through the rear-view mirror, but then he got into that political swamp, I am afraid, even to the head. Mr. Speaker! This is by no means the case, as the representative said and explained. Of course, we are in a situation where the state has to look at all its budget expenditure. At the same time, however, solutions are being sought which, economically and perhaps in some cases, are more effective in providing alternatives. This is not an unambiguous issue. We are in favour of public transport, we are certainly sticking to it, but if we are able to bring in alternatives that are better for customers, for example, why not in those situations? Bus services often serve better transport for people who can rise from their home gate
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u203	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about how this market-based traffic is organised. Here the representatives of the city centre have insisted that it should be arranged so that cream peeling does not occur, i.e. those who receive super shifts must also be required to take these low-traffic shifts. Here the Minister said that such a model could be considered. It is not clear in any way that, when it is examined, these companies which wish to organise this replacement service would agree to such a procedure. What, then, will be done when we no longer have that basic transport when it has been abolished? It is also very important to remember that not all rail transport, for example, can be replaced by bus transport. There will be much longer journeys, some people will be left in the back of the bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u204	Mr President! After all, it is now remarkable that, with all the clear eyes here, people are saying that Finland is about to stop the whole train traffic. We're not about to stop, and we're about to bring in replacement traffic. Then again, with the support of the left, buses have been abolished in this country, no matter how much bus traffic there is no longer going in the same way as in the past. Where are the replacement modes from there? Where are the replacements from there? You didn't bring anything in. You're the only ones who've destroyed the provinces. And now, if we talk about a few transversal train shifts, there will be a terrible alarm. It is a sad thing to have to take them away, and the people it touches must have replacement shifts and replacements in such a way that people can get to work, people can get to school and people can study. But there is no one here to stop in the same way as the bus services were taken out of this country, and that was already a terrible thing. It's just the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u205	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Kiuru started his speech with a promising start and quoted Winston Churchill and said that we should understand the past, something that points to it. It was amazing, however, when he said in the same speech that we cannot talk about funding here in the Chamber. Of course you can talk about funding here, and now, among other things, today is the place, or when the budget...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u208	Reply, Mrs Aalto, and then, for a change, Mr Kiuru, who gave the floor to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u209	Mr President! I think it is all right that today's debate has also reflected on what happened during the last parliamentary term. The representatives of the government parties have rightly said that VR's financial position was weakened, that is correct. The representatives of the government are quite right that buses were cut off, and that is a bad thing. Now, however, the representatives of the governments represent a government that is able to intervene in these matters. If you think that this cutting-off of buses was a bad decision, then you have all the power and the mandate to change this. What are you doing? No, you won't. In addition to that, you make cuts involving half a million users, every year. This cut in train traffic is very important. Mr Tolppanen downgraded this somewhat, but I repeat: half a million rides a year is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u210	Mr President! I'm a little confused about this point of view. Is it not quite right for the opposition here to say that where does this new transport policy come from? It has been said here that a new transport policy is being implemented, and this new transport policy seems to be called a deep market faith. The market has never handled Finnish traffic before. It has never been required in this Chamber before this parliamentary term, except by the extremists of the coalition, that we should put this whole transport system on the loose and believe that the market will manage. That is why I think it has been a big question this evening that we genuinely believe that it is worth stopping the airports in Finland so that ten remain, whether we should fully open up the competition for taxis, whether we should definitely open up the competition for passenger transport in the way that is being proposed here, with such a timetable. These are the questions. We are discussing today whether such a new transport policy, a market-based transport policy, is sensible. I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u211	Mr. Speaker! Finland must be reformed. I think we all agree on that. Transport policy cannot stand aside from this reform in any way. That's what the government does, isn't it? It's done by Minister of Transport Berner. He has just said that there is a road-bar approach in which it is precisely so that it must be thought-out and long-term. Just as was said here in the opposition's group statement: thought-out and long-term. That's what we're looking for here, isn't it? If we are now criticising the work that is not done, what are we, ladies and gentlemen, criticising? Unworked work. We talk about it all the time. What does it mean to reduce the correction debt by 600 million in this parliamentary term? Last season, neither did the euro. What do we do with the fact that the last period of concentration, the concentration of everything, was the top ideology? Now the bioeconomy has been put at the forefront of everything, which is a decentralised approach and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u212	Mr President! When we have this country of long distances and we know that public transport will never survive on market terms, or there will be only a few growth centres around it, what is the reason why we have to rush now when we are allowed to maintain this passenger traffic on the VR side until 2024? What's the reason? I have not yet been able to find out why it has to be opened after six months, about the papers, about the press, about today's debate. If one of the honourable Members is able to spell this out for me in any way, then I am very grateful. During this day we have also been asked about the money and the impact of the Ministry on the regional economic impact on these places, where this traffic is now going to end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u213	Mr President! I am from North Karelia, and it is not realistic to think that in North Karelia we will have market-driven operators to shut down planned train services. Minister Vehviläinen, as the provincial minister, has also said that buses cannot replace this train service, that is not a sensible idea. If traffic connections deteriorate in North Karelia, the whole province will be severely reduced. That is why the security of air transport is an absolute prerequisite for us to be able to manage as a province. I therefore find it offensive that some representatives of the government parties have underestimated this intermediate issue. We in North Karelia have a real concern and a real need for how we will survive in the future if the traffic connections are any worse than they are at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u214	Mr President! Now I have to correct: I have not underestimated the abolition of shifts; I have said that there are replacement measures coming. And now perhaps it would be a good time to review what these compensatory measures are and when these measures will start there. I might as well ask the Minister whether these replacement buses or other shifts will start as soon as they stop working for VR. In addition, I continue to stress the need for cross-border lines to be put in place before any more cream peelers are taken there than anyone else. Very bad accidents will happen there very soon if the tracks are not fixed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u215	Mr. Speaker! When the Minister said here that he was reforming and the government was reforming funding, reforming policies, creating new services, entrepreneurship opportunities for transport, and mentioning that the transport sector is currently quite inefficient, it is clear that all of these must be reformed. It is also quite certain, as the Minister has already said, that these commercial operators will not be given these tasks and these shifts without conditions. Now, don't spread that image anywhere from here, that everything would happen without conditions. The government's setting the conditions for everything. So it puts it here too, and as you can see, the minister there is nodding all the time that this is going to happen, and that is what he said. Don't give me any false information.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u216	Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister about this market economy of transport policy and the liberalisation of competition: how does a decentralised market support the coordinated development of public transport which is important to society? I would like to have an answer to that. The second question is: how do we ensure that they continue to invest in the transport system, especially where the market value of transport connections is lower?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u217	I will give the answers to the representatives of Myller, Rossi and Kiuru and then, if the Minister wants a word, then to him. In this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u218	Mr President! Surely we would all be happy to provide the right information here and take the right information forward, but when this information has been so contradictory. First it is announced that certain parts will be abolished, said that something will come, we do not know what will happen there. And now it is clear today, if I understand correctly, that in any case, the obligation traffic will be carried out if market conditions do not enter a region. That's been known today. Well, this too was a misunderstanding. We also now have 5 million new money to spend on compulsory transport — where does it go? It is extremely difficult to say things in the province if we do not know how to deal with them. It cannot be that the decision is first taken to abolish and then it is said that this will be replaced by something that we do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u219	Mr. Speaker! Democracy is the cornerstone of democracy. It is therefore good that Parliament is also discussing transport policy and public transport policy. It just seems that we are not even listening to what everyone here is saying. In his own speech, the Minister gave a very clear answer to these points, in particular concerning certain train services, how they are handled or how they are managed at this stage. On top of that, the obligation transport issue and the 5 million to which Mr Myller referred is not a new issue. It is the money in purchasing services, it can be used and used. For the time being, they seem to have only been in the reserve there, as it were. But, Mr President, it is essential, of course, to create the conditions for public transport policy. We need investment, we need operations, we need operators who move there. Whether they are on the tracks or on the roads is perhaps not the most important question. The most important question is that public transport operates in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u220	A reply to Mr Kiuru, the liberator of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u221	President! I would also like to say that 90% of wisdom comes from being wise in time. This example proposed by Mr Tolppanen, which we should be discussing here, was related to bus transport. It is good to remember that behind the mess of bus traffic there is an EU service contract regulation, which led the MinTC officials to interpret this issue in such a way as to create market-based traffic and create the traffic that is forced to be supported. And this was done, and we in this example of the train will do exactly the same. Now they're wondering what's wrong with this. In other words, it is not possible to criticise this previous decision, which, however, was intended to increase the number of bus services in the competition. This was very important to Mr Kyllöne, then, that he should dismantle these monopolies. Well, it never got as good a result as anyone wanted here. But in this case, we will do the same thing all over again and we will say that this too has become nothing and there is no alternative. In that regard, I think it is better that we are all right here in time and assess what
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u222	Now to reply, Mr Berner, and if there is any further debate on his speech, then for a moment there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u223	Mr President! I would like to say once again that VR drives three types of transport: market-based traffic, to which it has monopoly protection, compulsory traffic, which it is pushing against a monopoly agreement, and the purchasing traffic that society is paying for. I have always and only said that the government's purchase money will have to be reduced by EUR 15 million, according to the government programme's record. I have never said on any occasion that this means that all traffic from these regions will end. I have always said that we are looking for alternatives and other solutions. The conclusions that these are going to end transport have been the opposition's own. They've never been my words. I am also committed to applying for replacement services, and I have done so. I have also made a commitment to make every effort to ensure that public transport develops in Finland, that there is an increase in passenger traffic and that we genuinely have the capacity and capacity to invest in infrastructure, which requires that we have sufficient traffic volumes all over Finland. Coordination will continue to take place in part by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is the competent authority, but I am sure that regional self-government will also be important actors in this as a whole. Of course, it is also clear that I have had discussions with alternative operators before I have even opened this debate. We know that we are getting operators on the market, and we also know that we will certainly have to combine profitable and unprofitable transport shares with the same agreements, and these entities are currently being negotiated. I repeat: VR is now and will continue to be a major player in Finland. It is also an interest in corporate governance. But it is also good for us to have other players on the market, and, as I said, without conditions, these pieces will not be opened up to traffic. This is not a random plan, but a record of the government programme that we are now implementing, not by haste but by thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u224	Mr President! I have to say now that I do not always keep up with what we are talking about here, because the first thing to do is to make a decision on the abolition of train traffic and then say that it will be replaced with something. And this is an extremely problematic situation for those who depend on this train. Today you said that, in any case, the conditions for maintaining rail transport will be safeguarded until passenger train traffic is opened up to competition in 2017. And that is what I called for when I said that I understand that this is done either by purchasing or by imposing obligations, but in any case it is guaranteed. I do not believe that there will be private competition between Nurmes and Joensuu, nor will there be private competition between Pieksämäki and Joensuu. If so, I would like to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u225	Mr President! This debate on the mid-term issue is extremely interesting but, on the other hand, it is also confusing to follow when, during this debate, this car tax, for example, has risen in various contexts: that when certain sections of the railway line are now under threat, perhaps — and that is something that will be examined more closely — it would be replaced by a car tax. During this autumn period, I remember that the demars and other opposition parties called for the car tax to be used, even if it were to do so, by a little relief or reduction in the amount that would come out of it. If all your demands were to be combined, about a billion dollars of that car tax would now be required. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u228	Mr President! I would just like to say to Mr Tolppin very quickly that, during the course of this day, several representatives of the Government Party have undervalued this interim issue and have said that this is a pointless debate. The concerns of the provinces are real, and so that this concern can now be eased in my own province of North Karelia, I would like a direct response from the Minister that how the Minister intends to take care of public transport in North Karelia, for example from Joensuu to the north and west. And when Mrs Hoskonen is here, she has in the past also insisted very seriously that we should also contact the east of Joensuu, i.e. Ilomants. Do you think we should think about these possibilities now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u229	Mr President! Of course, the government is consistent in its doing, so is this one. And once it has set the bioeconomy as a significant new power factor and economic factor in Finland, of course it will also make it possible for this to happen. Transport is one of them, it is a key element — if the transport routes are not in order up to the village roads, up to the private roads, there will be no opportunities for the development of a bioeconomy such as what is being sought and what expectations are being placed on it. One question to the honourable Minister: When you said that new forms of service will come and new ways of road maintenance, construction, digitalisation will be strongly involved, small companies will be able to get in there and so on, are there any plans as yet as to what they could be, so that we can be able to implement this renewal and the various ways in which we can take action as soon as possible? And at what point in this traffic cycle do they come — now that three stages come, at what point do these things come into play?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u230	I will give three more replies, Mr Tolppanen, Mrs Aalto and Mr Kiuru, and then a brief speech to the Minister. And then, finally, Mr Jarva, who has waited a long time for his actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u231	Mr President! I am also concerned about this rail transport, especially in that direction in Ostrobothnia. After all, Vaasa is a city where a lot of goods are exported from it more than the three nearby regions combined. From Vaasa, aircraft depart daily to Sweden and Helsinki, more and a couple of times a week to Tenerife or somewhere else in the warm sun. In addition to that, we're sending ships to the Swedish side. The problem is that it is now a little scary whether we are still getting feed traffic from Seinäjoki, Lapua, Suomenselä and the whole of Southern Ostrobothnia. It is extremely important for the development and growth of the entire area of growth. Another important point, Mr President, is that the River Seinäjoki-Kaskinen section of the railway line should, at last and finally, be put in place. If it can't be fixed, we'll have to shut down Kaskie's Deep Port. And when the Kaskisten Deep Port is shut down, it means you're gonna be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u232	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having been able to discuss, answer and listen to our questions for so long. Let me just ask you the last two questions: How have you responded to people who have a significant fall in the value of their dwelling as traffic connections deteriorate and thus the accessibility of services and hobbies deteriorate and commuting increases in time? And in addition to the concerns of individual people, I also share the concerns of the provinces here, because they are committed by planning to promoting public transport by rail. How have you responded to the concerns of individual people and regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u233	Mr President! Yes, the big question is that when we start to think about regional policy even in the Pori Council, how we can secure 100 people's air traffic connections, whether the next airport will leave the province, especially as it is part of the operations of the Finnish Aviation Institute, it is important to convince the Finns, the Porians, the centurions and the people of this nation that we still have traffic that is not on the market in the future. Yes, we also need forms of support, and we, in our own option next week, are saying that we should not stop this purchasing business because we have also learned. I think it's all right to go through this example on the bus. In other words, when the EU service contract regulation led to the need to separate profitable and unprofitable bus lines, and when they were no longer allowed to collate so that one of them was subletting the other, a situation in which the benefits of free competition opened up long-distance traffic in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u234	And here is the response, Minister Berner and 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u235	Mr President! Digitalisation will be reflected in the implementation of the traffic cycle in its first phase, which will be given to Parliament next June. It will focus, above all, on road transport, on the treatment of different modes of transport and will combine the laws into a single large entity, which will also enable new services to be created. I have answered the questions of individual people so that I will do everything in my power to increase, develop, diversify, become more supply, more alternatives, more stops. But it will then need more operators on the market, it will also need competition, and we will see to it that until there is competition, we will secure transport as well as we can and then ensure that there is genuine good service, both on the regional and on the power grid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u236	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u237	Mr President! Transport connections that function in terms of regional development and business location decisions are of enormous importance. The wheels of transport and the economy as a whole are more rotating when the road and infrastructure are in order and the accessibility of the regions is secured. In fact, the government is directing the maintenance of the basic routes to the tune of nearly EUR 1 billion of the much-needed additional euros to prevent the recovery debt from increasing. Road projects are coming to the country as a whole, and efforts are being made to renovate the lower road network in particular. Mr President! Public transport has also been in a drying state in Finland for decades. Indeed, the whole system is in urgent need of reform. VR has gradually shut down several train stations with the aim of enabling the connections between regional centres to be run quickly enough. In these areas, residents have been forced to move to private cars and the number of passengers has decreased further. In the past, only shifts have been cut off from public transport. We are now looking for alternative solutions and replacing links to ensure links between the regions even when the shifts are closed. It was also important today to hear from Minister Berner that, if necessary, there will be a replacement link between Kajaani and Oulu to replace the train shift to be terminated by VR. Thus, despite challenging times, the Sipilä government does not forget the areas. Mr President! The lifeblood of the business is the customers. However, VR has not received enough customers for rail transport. VR’s monopoly position currently does not provide sufficient value for the money invested in it, nor has it paid due attention to cost-effectiveness. Even the best rail connections are of no use if ticket prices are so high that private cars are almost always cheaper. Opening up passenger transport to competition is an opportunity to lower prices and increase passenger numbers. Freedom also includes responsibility, and new operators on the tracks will manage both market-based and compulsory traffic, so that cream peeling is not just for the busiest lines. In this way, state funds will continue to be better spent on purchasing, less profitable routes and securing connections throughout the country. However, this is only one part of a thorough public transport reform designed to fill half-empty trains and buses. And, contrary to what the opposition claims, the purpose of this reform is precisely to ensure links between the provinces in the future. I know how important the transport connections in the provinces are when I'm being renegotiated. The decline in public transport must be prevented, but it does not stop the financial responsibility of the state and municipalities simply by increasing. Unnecessary barriers to the development of public transport must be dismantled, new means of managing transport must be put in place and the models found to be inoperable must be removed. Opening up competition and dismantling standards will also enable a new kind of transport entrepreneurship, of which the final benefits are the customer and Finns throughout the country. Transport connections create a future. Effective connections are important for the vitality and well-being of the country as a whole. That is what we are making sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u238	Mr President! The Government's contribution to the development of the transport network has also been significant in Finland. The State has set up companies for air and rail transport and has built airports, rail networks and road networks. Rail transport started in Finland at the end of the 19th century, under the leadership of the state, although the country was otherwise moving towards a free market economy. The importance of the market for transport can be growing and this can have a positive impact on the functioning and economy of our transport system. Yet government action is needed. The latter cannot resign in the division of labour between companies and the state. With regard to the transport policy under the leadership of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government and Minister of Transport Berner, there is good reason to suspect that the state is unilaterally disengaging from the development of transport. There is no plan for major infrastructure investments. Public transport is dwindling, and the government has decided to cut rail traffic hard. Mr President! Bus transport provides the necessary and good service. However, bus services do not replace rail transport. Rail traffic runs on uncongested roads, which are not impaired by snowfall and where both safety and travel comfort are of their own nature, and rail transport is able to achieve results that are of its own class, thanks to both the size of the fleet and the speed of movement. In recent years, the opportunities for rail transport have increased. Train technology has developed and several lines have been upgraded. These investments and opportunities must not now be wasted. The intermediate issue draws attention to the importance of maintaining rail transport for regional policy. The rail network is an invaluable resource for the development of regions. In Southern Finland, a large growth corridor is estimated to have been created along the Helsinki-Tampere track. In the development of Northern Ostrobothnia, the main route from Oulu to the south is to Seinäjoki and Tampere and from there to the southern growth corridor. In addition to the growth corridors, we must also take care of inter-regional traffic. Infrastructure baselines shall be connected to traffic operating throughout the entire area covered by the rail network. In this respect, government policy is a rather cold reduction and concentration. According to the Government's plans, rail traffic will be reduced from the Oulu-Kajaani railway section. When highway 22 connecting Oulu to Kainuu has still not been fixed, it is quite an artificial righteousness to talk about replacing train traffic on bus shifts. Travel times are getting longer, and the comfort is getting weaker. Mr President! For the regions of Finland, rail transport means more than just mobility. A functioning station, one that actually gets you on the train, is psychologically important. If traffic fades or ceases altogether, it means closing down the whole city and region. They're putting a note in the hatch, not just in the station building. Nor will the good employment we all seek be achieved unless commuting is in play. In its regional policy, the government has focused only on the creation of new administrative structures. However, the self-governing regions, with all their posts and taxes, do not mean the same to ordinary people in the province or to owners of a small enterprise in the province as a concrete public service, an open station and a train service. Mr President! There are also good and timely arguments for maintaining rail transport, other than regional policy. Passenger train traffic is mainly operated by electronic equipment. The energy needed to move trains can be produced in an environmentally friendly manner without increasing greenhouse gas emissions. We should now make choices that also last from an environmental point of view. Here too, in addition to the tonnes of emissions, we need to look at the impact of solutions on people's attitudes and perceptions. Is Finland of the future a model country for functioning low-emission public transport or not? If the government had reduced or delayed the car tax, there would not be an economic obligation to cut down on train traffic. On the contrary, there could have been more investment in public transport. Mr President! The alternative to a government cutline is reasonable, functional and economic. Keep the traffic at an adequate level. Support the provinces and their centres, the possibility for people to live in their home region, work and use services through well-functioning public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u239	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The mid-term issue of the opposition rightly draws attention to the objectives of transport policy and their impact on citizens and our regions. The development of the fairway network means new opportunities for job creation and new models of housing and services. However, if these issues are to be successful, it will require targeted management and sufficient resources. All these important issues have been raised in the interim and therefore support the Sipilä Government's programme. Mr President! During the debate on the interim question, I believe that the opposition has succumbed to severe intimidation about the abolition of train traffic, the dismantling of regional policy and so on. However, the Government's programme for next year will be a major project in which the different modes of transport of the future will be reviewed. Transport structures or business models will be developed using, among other things, a well-functioning system that is already working. Good examples have been raised today. There has been talk of the Lightspot launched by the Taxi Federation, the Kela application for combined transport and the coordination of different payment methods or ticket applications. All these issues will be dealt with in the spring round of traffic. The Transport Code project can be based on the unanimous correction debt programme of the previous Parliament. In my view, the main priority is to finance EUR 600 million for basic infrastructure management and EUR 360 million for projects that have not yet been designated. VR's role and the position of rail transport in Finnish transport in general has also been emphasised in the intermediate issue. VR's important role as a public transport operator should be developed and emphasised and, if necessary, changed its own practices. This is where Mr Wall's speech on the subject said how competition should be opened up to rail, to passenger traffic. I believe that, in the same context, he also said that the opposition would agree with this railway package that was being prepared in the EU. When planning the areas of self-government for the future, consideration should be given to whether the partial decision-making of the various transport projects should be transferred to the areas of self-government, whether the regions should decide on the targets of the renovation debt in addition to planning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u240	Mr President! Minister, I would also like to thank you for having been here a long night with us. This is an important debate, and it is also good that we can do this in person. I have not heard anyone say here that the railways are going to be abolished from Finland. On the other hand, what decisions have been taken by the government is that rail transport is going to be abolished for certain sections of the road, and we do not know what the substitute traffic will be. I think it would have been good to wait for this traffic curve and then take these big decisions only on the basis of it. I believe that it is important for us to carry out planned work on transport policy. Rail transport plays an extremely important role in this. It has been said here that it is environmentally friendly, it stretches almost everywhere in Finland so that it can be used as standard transport, and there are already previous plans for us to have high-speed interurban rail connections and then be complemented by rail buses — and then with sufficient efficient and good feed traffic for them. I think that the most important thing now would be to think about how we are going to develop rail transport in order to get customers there as well. We have talked about the price, it is an extremely important issue. The price can be varied according to demand, and then in this way too, demand can be created for the time periods when it is not there otherwise. It is also difficult to see how, in a sparsely populated area, for example, this chaining of traffic is done if, as it were, this trunk traffic is handled as a puzzle in such a way that if no one gets excited about it in the competition, then it is handled in another way. When it comes to such chains of travel, there are quite a number of parties, whose interests and then the smooth running of traffic must be dealt with. In other words, from this point of view too, I believe that transport policy decisions should not be made in pieces, but must have an overall view and then make these practical decisions within. From the point of view of North Karelia, I have already mentioned the fact that it has been suggested by the Regional Union, which includes all parties, that both rail links, which are now being closed down, should be developed in a way that would allow transport to continue. There is a great deal of tourism in North Karelia and Kainuu since Joensuu. How do you get these tourist companies involved so that part of their marketing is also this marketing of means of transport and that ease of entry to North Karelia and Kainuu along this line? It should also be strongly considered that the distance between Joensuu and Pieksämäki will be electrified, so that cross-border traffic will be made to work and the costs will also be reduced from that traffic area. And when we talk about this development of rail transport, especially from the point of view of North Karelia and Eastern Finland, then Imatra's double track is very important for us to shorten travel times and make us competitive on the railways. I personally believe that it is from this point of view of development that we can also create the conditions that transport, and rail transport in particular, can continue, grow and develop throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u241	Mr President! Firstly, it is very important to discuss transport policy and public transport policy, and in this respect, of course, the intermediate issue is always an excellent opportunity. On the other hand, it has to be said to Mrs Myller that, in this case, it might have been appropriate, however, for the interim issue to have been put forward a little later, when the Minister for Transport's reply would have been more clear about how the various contacts will work in practice, so we are now discussing some of the information that is still missing, and that will, of course, make this debate more difficult. In the same way, Mr President, there have been so many bogeymen shot on the wall during the debate that it seems that the whole of Finnish transport policy and public transport policy are falling apart. Of course, this is not happening. We also need to look for new options. We know that, where there is a great deal of economic activity, for example in the capital region in this region of Helsinki and in many more places, there is public transport, which is also very much on its own. It is also supported. In fact, the share of society in traffic in the Helsinki region is about half, and that is of course an interesting point: why would this policy not work without the support of society? Well, we know that the climate issues involved, the many things that are perfectly appropriate, and in this respect I would like to say that public transport policy must be supported by society, but society must have the courage to look at different options. Of course, in those areas where the SDP was not concerned at the time when major public transport closures took place, there is little reason to be alarmed at the fact that there is hardly any more shift in many places. And when we talk about train services, it is clear that train services have their own meaning, perhaps the spiritual importance is still quite great, all the unions and cities, for example, are happy to take a stand in favour of rail transport, but if we look at it from the point of view of individual passengers, then surely the most important question is that there is some sort of public transport, and securing this is certainly a key issue on which we all want to stick. Society must be involved in this work, and the Minister for Transport and Communications and the Government have also contributed to this. I would like to be confident that we will apply to all those areas and shifts that will now be closed down. Mr. Speaker! One thing that has not come up at all in the debate is, in fact, the fact that the whole of public transport is working together in a certain way. Very often in Finland — I myself am an enthusiastic user of public transport in all possible ways — there are only situations where the next shift can take place even on long lines a few minutes earlier. So, basically, no one's coordinating how these shifts work together. Sometimes I've managed to stop the bus by calling the bus company in advance that you can wait a minute or something like that. I mean, from the user's point of view, it's completely insane. How can this be done? Are these legislative projects, whether it is a traffic curve or what, where it could then be obliged to do so, especially since society is involved in ensuring that this coordination of timetables is properly aligned? I'm sure it's important for people to move around. It may sound and feels like a small thing, but it is a big question for its passenger, and it is worth investing in this, because I believe that it serves the users of public transport in particular. Very often, then, only a car is left if the connections do not play. Mr. Speaker! Of course, investment goes with the economy. The economy can also be promoted through investment, as has been seen. For example, a major project in Central Finland Äänekoski will also take public transport forward in a positive way in terms of investment. That is why it is right that the Sipilä Government should focus specifically on investing in the bioeconomy, i.e. creating new opportunities for economic development, improving exports and improving employment. This will also lead to the creation of jobs in the transport sector and to the better maintenance of public transport. This is an easy issue to discuss, 'egg or chicken', but public transport alone does not ensure that economic activity plays a role. Of course it is important, but of course it is essential that action is made, and in this respect I believe that the government's economic policy will also create the conditions for a more effective public transport policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u242	Mr President! It is sad that the government is planning to end whole lines from the provinces. No one has said here that the whole of rail transport is about to be stopped, but that it is about certain rail connections. This is a huge blow to the equality of citizens living in the provinces, the attractiveness and accessibility of the provinces and cities. These austerity measures will make it more difficult for many regions already in distress. I wonder how a city-run government can do this. The city centre has always defended the provinces in the past and said that the whole country must be kept inhabited.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u245	Mr President! The reform of transport planned by the government is part of the wider development of society in order to regain the competitiveness we have lost. As regards rail transport, for example, Finland is one of the last countries in Europe where all rail transport is controlled by a monopoly company. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, there are 17 passenger service providers on track and 12 on freight. By opening up transport to competition, we offer new innovative companies the opportunity to enter the market and develop new service concepts that meet the needs of society and customers, so that the same company may operate in more than one transport sector. This will allow customers of the logistics service to buy the entire logistics chain they need competitively from one and the same supplier. Competition gives companies the opportunity to develop their basic activities and develop entirely new ways of working, so that the customer gets the benefits as an affordable price and an improved level of service. Socially regulated activities do not develop into innovative and economically productive activities, so logistics may at its worst become a disadvantage to competitiveness, even if the company tries to do everything in its power to provide its customers with the best possible service. In modern times, information is an important form of transport. There has been a huge increase in the number of data to be transferred daily, and new applications and technologies are constantly being developed. In the early days, for example, there was only one state-owned operator in this sector. With the liberalisation of the sector and the emergence of new companies, services have become more diversified and innovative developments are continuing due to competition. Such a huge development of services would hardly have taken place if the sector had not been liberalised to competition. Digitalisation also makes it possible to develop other modes of transport, functional telecommunications connections where traffic and the necessary capacity can be monitored in real time. This will enable companies to better design new operating models and respond quickly to the challenges posed by changes in customer numbers. Mr President! The state must open up its operations to competition, so that we get new businesses and new operating models for the logistically challenging operating environment. This will strengthen the basic conditions for increasing Finnish competitiveness. It is more the task of the State to create a business environment in which to act than to act as an active service provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u246	Madam President! First of all, Mr Ross, he has now left: you said that the question of the interim should have been raised later because you have insufficient information. Mr Rossi, I would like to say that this is also a matter of major policy and choices, and in that respect this intermediate issue does give cause for debate, and it cannot be that if the government does not have the reasons for all its proposals and does not have the necessary information, Parliament could not hold a debate on this basic agenda. Mr President! The government's austerity measures are about to put an end to train traffic from 28 stations. More than half a million trips are made each year on the routes to be stopped. We are in a situation where unemployment has continued to be high for a long time and there is no relief in sight. The dramatic decline in rail traffic will not at least facilitate employment and labour mobility outside growth centres. In addition to the unemployed, the mobility of students and older people, for example, is significantly hampered by these decisions. The government is now reducing the vitality of areas that have already been in difficulty. It is very confusing that this is done by a centre-driven government which has been a regional and regional party. It says a lot about the government's values that car tax is being reduced while public transport is being driven down. This choice of lines is unfortunately unequal and harmful to the environment. On the contrary, efforts should be made to develop and increase rail transport. Moreover, the saving of EUR 12 million seems to be very small in proportion to the damage caused to the regions and to the people living there. Minister Berner, you have promised that there will be replacement, market-based traffic between the two. However, it must be borne in mind that these are track sections with low profitability. Where can we find these private operators who have sufficient faith in the future for the investments needed to replace transport? It seems very unlikely that this will be possible, especially in March, when passenger traffic will cease on these particular sections of the road. In the case of the Y train, for example, rail transport cannot even be replaced by bus transport in such a way that travel times remain moderate. In this way, the government will only promote private motoring. The Government’s larger objective is that the public side should only be responsible for traffic that does not arise on market terms. The public sector would only have a role to play in unprofitable transport. The government therefore wants private companies to provide profit-making services and loss-making transport for taxpayers. The government has demonstrated its ability to reverse bad decisions. In the past, forced laws and the weakening of the fight against the shadow economy have already been withdrawn and, as the latest news, the abolition of housing allowance for pensioners has also been withdrawn. This would be a good opportunity for the government once again to change its course for the citizens in a better and fairer direction, not least as many of the MPs and the Centremen are also appalled by these plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u247	Madam President! As a rural resident of northern Savo, I know that there has been no public transport in the countryside for a long time now. Trains and buses often run half empty. In each province, public transport kilometres on roads and railways are reduced every year, and no wonder. For example, VR has priced itself out of the competition. You don't want to take the train if it's much cheaper to drive. Transversal traffic on the train isn't working. For example, the distance between Joensuu and Vaasa is eight hours by train, six hours by car. In addition, trains do not run properly during commuting times, so that the demand might be better. At the same time, there is little provision of services using several modes of transport. Each mode of transport develops itself separately. A good example is that the timetables for trains and buses do not work together, as Mr Rossi clearly described a moment ago. Mr President! Drainage is not justified by the funding of the state and municipalities. A radical reform is needed to dismantle unnecessary barriers to the exercise of public transport. Healthy and fair competition brings all players to a better service and lower prices. However, as has already been said in this Chamber, the State must safeguard the services if they are not created on market terms. Madam President! At the request of North Karelia and Kainuu Regional Councils, VR will examine whether the Joensuu-Vuakatti interval should be opened to passenger transport. After all, the Joensuu-Nurmes gap is now under threat of closure. It may be that profitability could be improved if Nurmes were not at the end of a dead end, but the journey could continue north to Kainuu, the pearl of tourism, until Vuokatti. Madam President! Less than EUR 100 million of public transport money is paid from the central government budget. At the same time, public-subsidised passenger transport is a large and growing item of expenditure, which is a much higher amount than that of EUR 100 million, which no one seems to be very concerned about. This is the taxi rally, which municipalities and Kela pay annually. Kela’s share of that amount is approximately EUR 175 million, or that amount was just last year. These costs have been increasing all along. In our provinces, taxis paid for by the municipality and Kela drive in a row. Combined travel, centralization of orders and digitalisation would bring savings and have already brought some savings, last year EUR 10 million. So there is already experience with that combination of rides. Kela estimates that this year's savings will be EUR 24 million, even though the municipal and Kela rides have not yet been combined. Common sense would save millions of dollars on patient transport. Even individuals who may not even deal directly with traffic may have a good idea of saving millions of dollars, such as an eagle nurse who combined the treatment periods of dialysis patients according to their place of residence. At that time, people were picked up from the same direction and, indeed, millions of dollars were saved. The medical trip of people should be combined with other care, business and hobbies. In the future, customers who pay for their journey and then receive travel allowances for society should also be able to get on the same ride. Madam President! The success of the overall reform of public transport initiated by Minister Berner is a matter of fate for Finns living long distances away. It is therefore necessary to look at all the public money flows allocated to support people's mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u248	Madam President! This debate on the interim issue has been very confusing to follow. The issue of the impact of transport policy objectives is certainly topical during this government, but it would have been even more pressing during previous governments and during the parliamentary term. Well, it's a good thing we're doing it now. Prime Minister Sipilä's government has seized the bull by the horns, and an increase of EUR 600 million to improve the condition of roads and tracks, the management of the care debt, is an important opening. The opposition here screams with their throats straight that everything has been done wrong. Well, even the opposition would have done this in their own time, but I guess it didn't come — I was expecting a lot of people, but it never did. Do you think finding a mala in your own eye would be better than finding a stick in a guy's eye? The total treatment deficit is approximately EUR 2.5 billion. It is a huge sum, but the first million must be spent and the first kilometre of roads and railways must be repaired. There's a lot of work to be done. Searching for the culprits in this situation or barking up a guy next to you doesn't make it any better. It is a question of credibility whether or not we are going to be surprised. The Finnish road network is significant, we are a country of long distances. We have about 52,000 kilometres of paved road, 6,000 kilometres of rail network, and the less talked about is these private roads: there are more than 300,000 kilometres of roads. And behind this 300,000 km are all Finland’s forest resources, agriculture, very many summer cottages, very many Finnish detached houses, many many inhabitants. The condition of these roads is precisely the bottleneck if we want to raise the bioeconomy to a new boom, as is clearly stated in the government's programme. We need to find a solution to this so that we can get this lower road network in order. It's been in our house for years and years without treatment or very bad treatment, and it's showing up now. In fact, Madam President, Finland is still standing on its wooden feet. The goal is to cut some 15 million more mots of wood from Finnish forests in the next few years, and the maximum target of 85 million mots per year is realism. Every hit that comes along the road is valuable in the rise of the Finnish economy towards a better tomorrow. It is worth noting that every hit from the Finnish forest is always the first to go on a rubber wheel, or lower road network, and there are really bad roads along this lower road network. There is a road to many people’s own house, along which a truck also runs in a load of wood. There are many summer cottage roads, there are purely forest roads, but all these roads must be repaired, otherwise the tree will not pass. It is precisely because of the fact that we have the long winter that we have, in practice, lost in a very large number of places, that the roads require special improvement at this time. The length of the winter has been substantially reduced in recent years, and the trunks of the road have been subjected to a very heavy strain, as have the bridges. These need immediate improvement. And remember, too, that when we fix you, we also have huge changes in the equipment. More and more trucks are on our roads, and it is sad to note that the pressure on large trucks is causing you constant damage, and it is sad to note that it is the new asphalt road, the new paved road that has been made, for example this spring, that has already clearly been caused by heavy transport since one summer. That is why, Madam President, it is important for this people to agree that the rail network should be put in order and that as much heavy goods transport as possible be carried on iron wheels. That is our common national objective. Similarly, air transport must continue to operate throughout the country, and it is precisely because of business activity that there are many companies in that region that need international connections and that do not work without air connections. More charter flights to these smaller fields — it is a cheap way for the citizens to spend their holidays, and above all we can also get activities to the provincial airports — and the flight shifts so that they can also operate in these city centres, such as our beautiful capital Helsinki. Finally, Mr President, I hope that with its own activity and great efficiency, Minister Anne Berner will take this section of the Joensuu-Lieksa-Nurmes and its section of the railway line into careful consideration, that we will have a genuine study of this, because it is the only transport link in our region to the north at the moment by rail. The same applies to: And finally, from the Ilomant track. As Mrs Mäkisalo-Ropponen said in her own speech, of course it is. The Ilomants track has to be set up; it is a so-called low-speed track, only about half of which has been repaired. It's a promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u249	Mr President! In our vast country, rail transport has in time formed the basis for any development by linking distant regions and resources to commercial centres, cities and export ports. Blood flow into the muscles of Finland began to flow with a whole new force when the network was eventually created. The network has, by its nature, represented a permanent logistical connection. Industry, business and also population have been developed on that basis. The different modes of transport on the tracks have supported each other. Where the condition and capacity of the track have been taken care of, investment in industry and housing construction have also brought vitality to the local area. The owner's indifference in the condition of the track and in the quality of the connections has, in turn, been reflected in the decline in industry and in the cries of the workers in the sector. In a country like Finland, the vast area of our country is a key challenge for our competitiveness. Large wilderness areas, untouched nature and scattered settlements are, of course, the special features of our country. They may also be exotic, which may be of great importance for tourism, but from the point of view of the costs of industry and industry, long distances are an additional burden. For the implementation of equality between citizens, our country's long distances pose a major challenge. When the population in Finland is small and focuses mainly on southern Finland, special measures are required from transport policy to enable public transport, as a mode of transport, to serve all citizens regardless of their place of residence. A little unexpectedly, the transport policy of the Sipilä Government seems to be a policy of concentration. Plans to switch publicly supported passenger transport to market-based traffic mean that transport connections in large rural areas in Finland will be weakened, unless something vigorous is done to replace them. Market-based private transport is only possible where it is economically viable. It is difficult to believe how long traffic could be economically viable in areas where passenger volumes are low. On the other hand, the decline in transport connections tends to drive people into the centres. Well, the simplest and cheapest solution would be to boost the concentration of the population in Southern Finland, the capital region and a few other centres in Finland. A strong concentration policy would bring people closer to each other and closer to jobs. This would create entirely new opportunities for public transport. We could increase the capacity. It would be commercially profitable to have passengers on board. Public support could be reduced. Well, such a smooth but centralised Finland from the point of view of public transport would of course be different from this Finland, where we live now and where relatively comprehensive public transport is maintained with a few special ownership arrangements and even with public funds. The central government does not want this Finland to be centralised in English, so that public transport is given responsibility for more market-based operators and put at risk the transport of sparsely populated areas, and does not reject the ideal of equality in public transport on the pretext that market-based competition is believed to produce efficiency benefits in some sectors? Transport policy cannot be done through partial optimizations — a lot of good speeches have been made today and this has been discussed and this aspect has been shared today. A cost-effective and citizen-friendly transport policy must continue to be based on a broad responsibility. Public transport to urban areas, for example, is implementing this model of wide-ranging responsibility to a great extent. Anyone who receives profitable lines must also take responsibility for the services that are economically loss-making. It cannot be right for a private company, so to speak, to peel the cream off — excuse this cliché — and for taxpayers alone to contribute to the cost of economically loss-making links. Mr President! The seriousness of the threat of climate change obliges us to take all measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. The development of public transport plays a key role here. The government's reckless use of money to reduce the car tax is of little importance to this objective. That money should be used to promote public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u250	Mr President! First of all, it is excellent to note that the Minister is still able to listen to the debate on the interim issue. This intermediate issue therefore concerns public transport, which has, in fact, been in a certain spiral of exhaustion for years. It is absolutely essential that this cycle be cut off as soon as possible. I personally agree with the Minister's view that, overall, there is a need for major reforms in this public transport sector, undoubtedly a market economy, to remove obstacles to roads and railways, and a much better and better rail network is needed. It is also necessary to say in this context, of course, with all the friendship that today's opposition seems to remember very badly what kind of transport policy was taken over the last period in Finland. Today, in this Chamber, there has been talk of centralisation, of centralising transport policy, and I dare say that the transport policy of the last period was, in many respects, much more central than what is being said today in the transport policy of the current government. If we go back sufficiently far from the legislative background of public transport, the challenges actually started at the beginning of this decade when the Public Transport Act and the EU service contract regulation came into force. In this case, the liner shipping licences under the old Passenger Transport Act were converted into so-called ‘transitional’ agreements. At the end of the transitional period, transport had to be competitive in accordance with procurement and public transport legislation if public aid was to be used for transport services. In practice, in this context, when ticket support can no longer be allocated to ticketing, for example, in our traffic to Kainuu Kajaani, companies' willingness to apply for licences for scheduled services fell and, at the same time, the services of public transport in Kainuu were also weakened. At the same time, while the funding of public transport was reduced by the previous government, the number of shifts in purchasing and market-based traffic has decreased in Kainuu since 2012 and is small in population but very large in the region. ♪ We are ♪ In Kainuu, therefore, they were forced to get used to the one-by-one reduction in traffic times during the last parliamentary term. There's got to be a change. Transport policy is such an important part of industrial policy and regional development and, above all, of equality between citizens and regions, that it is also necessary to talk about policy principles in this context. As the resources of the state and the municipalities run out, it is difficult to promise a new allocation reserve, which, in this economic situation, is acceptable as a precondition for any reflection. As far as public transport is concerned, and in particular - and I say this again - after the previous government, we are in the process of getting into a situation where public transport is at risk of being restricted to the privilege of big cities. However, the rights of sparsely populated regions to public transport must definitely be upheld. For those regions, it is a lifeline. Because of the tight budgetary situation, I see no alternative — and I am still saying it — but to radically reform the environment in which public transport operates. We are also forced to do this by the fact that the purchase prices of transport have increased, while the distribution of public finances has narrowed. In one way or another, the same amount of public funds must be made available more. As regards public transport, we need to step up our stance and a proper policy debate, and we must remember that public transport will require public funds in the future. It is also a strategically important industry, which is why VR is, among other things, a state-owned company. Of course, when public authority is used in the form of money or corporate governance, it must always be ensured that under no circumstances will any region be left without functioning public links. Securing public transport and acting comprehensively across the country is a principle that cannot be flexible. Public transport is also an equality that belongs to all of us — that is why the accessibility of the whole country must be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u251	Mr President! Minister Berner, who has decided to abolish train services, I come from Eastern Finland, and reducing train services will significantly weaken the accessibility of our regions by making business and business trips more difficult. Deteriorations cause significant human and economic problems for local and leisure residents and businesses throughout Eastern Finland. The strikes concern South Savo, North Savo, North Karelia, Kymenlaakso and South Karelia. The abolition of whole train routes from regions and the thinning of train traffic between growth centres are the end of regional policy. The government, by its own decisions, creates growing regional disparities and increases the injustice between regions. The Minister’s promises to replace train connections with profitable bus connections have not been assured. Public transport cannot be made to play according to the needs of the regions of Eastern Finland, and people do not like bus and coach travel as much as trains do. Municipalities do not have enough money to do so, shoulders are not broad enough, and market economy does not exist in our sparsely populated areas. We in the South have already suffered from the increasing number of trains passing through our stations without stopping. In the future, for example, some of the students in Eastern Finland will become almost impossible to move to their localities after the train stops. Ready, good and climate-friendly rail transport will be made unattainable by the state to some Finns. All regional, regional and local authorities are opposed to this development. Deteriorations have a negative impact on commuting, student, business and tourism. Will the government use its transport policy to dismantle the vitality and development of the provinces? Has the centre abandoned regional policy? For me, regional policy is the creation of an equal life for people living in different parts of the country. The best regional policy is to maintain transport connections, to provide training places and access to skilled labour and to provide basic services for citizens throughout the country. The opportunities for Eastern Finland to live and develop must be maintained as fair and equal compared to the capital region. A cut of around 15 million in VR's purchase traffic could very well be cancelled and money taken, for example, by reducing the EUR 200 million car tax reduction. The government is also planning to weaken the operation of taxis in the provinces. Buses are being given the opportunity to act as taxis and taxi services are being exempted from regulation. This is the experience of Sweden, where when a customer enters a taxi you do not know how much a trip costs and whether a ride is safe. In particular, the Government’s policy threatens taxi traffic in smaller cities and municipalities, as taxis would have to go to larger cities due to a shortage of customers. The Finnish regulated taxi system is affordable, reliable, serviceable, high-quality and available at all times and everywhere. Why in the world should a market-believer modern government destroy it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u252	Madam President! Minister, I'm glad you're able to sit here tonight with us. It has been interesting and, in fact, quite encouraging to hear how the opposition has now become such a big supporter of regional policy. I hope that this line will continue in the future too, namely that the actions of history have not always been very convincing. If you think about targeting cuts in education to the north in the last parliamentary term, they were three times larger than in the rest of the country, so that there was no fair regional policy either. But I do not deny that these questions, which we are now faced with, are also extremely difficult and regionally, above all. After all, they're unfortunate and unfortunate. So are many other things at a time when we live beyond our means and have to save everything. When you save everything, it gets on everyone's skin. But there are also good examples of how the current government also supports the development of transport policy, and even after a rather heavy debate on the question of the mid-term, I would like to highlight, for example, the projects of digitalisation and also to express my thanks for the support given by the state, for example, to the Aurora project, which is the new digitalization project in Tunturi-Lapp. One of the growing pillars of Northern Finland is that many major international car brands, Porsche, Ferrari, Bemari, perform their winter tests in the north and through new digitalisation, we can also connect to this business at national and international level great opportunities for digital development of intelligent transport automation or transport infrastructure or how to manage the fairway property or how to organise transport services cost-effectively. This has been a big deal, because it also involves a traditional improvement in infrastructure, namely highway 21, which is about to receive repair aid, and I thank you for that. Yes, there are also regionally bright spots, but there are also, of course, difficult issues. I hope, however, that this EUR 600 million correction bill will then also become available for the railways at some point to be able to electrify the existing network. Well, of course, at the end of the day it is up to the state to take care of the basic infrastructure, and that means maintaining roads, railways and airports and also developing international connections, and I hope that this will also be reflected in the future TEN-T network search. Of course, it is always important to raise the issue of projects vital to industry, and I am able to believe and hope that at some point that part of the Fourths from Simo to Ii will also have a chance of basic improvement. It is one of the most dangerous road sections in Finland and well above the average in terms of how dangerous it is, and yet 10 per cent of Finland's net exports leave the area, so surely it is also important for us to move on with such projects in economic terms. In conclusion, however, I would like to remind you of the concern that people have, above all in the less-favoured areas, that now that we start opening up certain parts of the competition in the spirit of development, the state is sticking to the last task of keeping every region and every region on the road and seeking the various applications that are suitable for the capital region or which is suitable for Varsinais-Suomi or Northern Ostrobothnia or Kainuu, because the regions are very different. Then, of course, on behalf of the airports, I have to say a few words. I have been following with concern the debate that Finnair has now begun, that they are negotiating with the regions about which region pays the most in the balance, that perhaps the network will then be reduced. I think it would be a good move for the state to take care of the network of airports in the future too, especially when there is a record in the Government Programme that there should be no additional obligations for municipalities. Of course, the spirit of time is difficult, but I believe that with ingenuity and a variety of thought and preparation, we will certainly also achieve very good results and put an end to the cycle of oblivion. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u253	Mr President! This is what the representative is doing. My corner said about this regional policy and that it is very surprised now: I would, however, like you to look at the history of which the cooperation of the parties in Finland has developed provinces, that is, it has been done with good cooperation between the Centre and the Social Democrats, and I hope that this will also happen in the future. We have very good cooperation in many provinces. I hope you find it here, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u254	Madam President! The biggest contribution to the opposition's mid-term issue is that it will finally enable a proper debate on the future of Finnish transport policy. That is why I would like to thank the authors of the interim question. However, less praiseworthy is the mezzanine text itself. It does highlight many important forces for change in current and future transport policy, such as digitalisation, but an analysis of them, not to mention recommended policy measures, is short-sighted. Instead of giving its support to the government to boldly reform Finnish transport policy into a more appropriate world, the opposition looks firmly at the rear-view mirror. Every change in transport policy seems to be a threat. For example, with regard to the highly talked-about transport of personnel by rail, the opposition believes that it would be better for Finns to have Finland wait years and years to open up our national markets to competition. As if Finland could take its time to watch the efforts of other countries and only then come to a tougher market and succeed. Mr President! I personally disagree entirely with the opposition on this. We will not improve the situation in Finland by waiting. Actually, that's the worst option. Renewal is the only way to guarantee the adequacy of public transport for all Finns. At the moment, Finnish transport policy is far behind its time. To catch up with this back way, we now need to make sarcasms and big decisions. The biggest problem with us in relation to other countries is that our transport system is currently one of the most heavily regulated sectors and less efficient systems. The annual market in the transport sector in Finland is well over EUR 30 billion, but much economic added value, not to mention innovations that create new export products, has not been achieved in recent years. The government does not think that we should be content with this. The conditions for transport must also be created for growth and development. Globally, transport-related business is growing at a tremendous rate. This is a total market of thousands of billions of euros, to which Finland must also be able to reach. The answer to this big challenge is the Government's Transport Arc project, which harmonises transport service packages and dismantles market regulation. Instead of minor filings, there is now a need for large renovations to secure the position of Finnish customers. In addition to the traffic cycle, the potential of digitalisation and new technologies must be maximised. It is possible for Finland to become a leader in digital transformation through the current wide range of mobile expertise. Determined and technology-friendly steps here will ensure better transport services for future Finns. As part of the major transformation of transport policy, it is also necessary to consider ways of reforming the financing of major transport projects in particular. To try out new models, we now need the courage to release more limited public funding, for example, to reduce the size of the debt. That, of course, is what this government is spending EUR 600 million in this parliamentary term. Mr President! Finally, as a Member of Parliament in Central Finland, I would like to thank Minister Berner and his ministry for the promises made to Central Finland. As the Minister said, the link between Tampere and Keuruu, as well as the Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Säinäjoki connection, has continued to be secured. So the connections from Central Finland are working, and the service level seems to be improving in some places in these areas. With these words, I support the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u255	Madam President! Every now and then, it is good to stop a little while while there is a debate on why various austerity reforms are obviously needed now. The reason is, in all its simplicity, that exports do not pull. I am pleased that the government's programme makes this very clear and I sincerely hope that we all understand in particular the importance and potential of high industrial value added and exports to the growing markets in building the welfare of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u256	Mr President! Minister! Even though feeling and appearance are like being hit by a train, I still could not resist the temptation of being sidelined by this conversation of the day to share in this too. It seems that the opposition has very effectively forgotten that transport policy and regional policy must be seen as a whole. This government has the legacy of the previous and previous governments. As far as transport policy is concerned, this means that the whole system is in some sort of spiral of obsolescence. The level of basic road maintenance was absolutely shameful after the last government. Year after year, public contacts, for example, have been abolished. Minister Berner has quite rightly and with a truly commendable approach taken to reform public transport. Reform and overall reform are necessary because the option would be to submit to a spiral of drought in the past. Contrary to what has often been claimed here from the opposition, this government fully understands the importance of transport policy for business and regional development. This is why it already stated in its Government Programme that more money will be allocated to basic maintenance and the network. For example, as this government is well aware, it is vitally important that the wood is mobilised from the forest and that new timber products which the economy so desperately needs are actually made. The condition of the road network is absolutely crucial when it comes to getting wood raw material moving. A well-functioning forest road network is also a competitive asset in relation to, for example, Russian imported timber. So there are a number of reasons for making an effort on the road. We did, of course, have these on the table last season, but the SDP and other opposition parties today did not want to listen to them when they were in the government. As far as the infrastructure is concerned, it is clear that the whole and at the same time the economy must be taken into account. While emphasising market economy must be carried out, it must of course be borne in mind that unprofitable areas always remain where society has to assume the responsibilities of organisation, and that is what I myself, as a representative of Eastern Finland, also require. This is a bit the same as on the one side of telecommunications: we have large blind spots in our hands that have not been constructed on market terms. The demand for such social responsibility on the part of companies just does not seem to succeed in practice. Mr President! On the other hand, it must be remembered that on the telecommunications side, opening up the market has meant record cheap connections for Finns and exceptionally fast mobile connections, i.e. benefits have also come. However, there is still a need for fibre and faster connections to enable rural businesses, among others, to develop their activities. This example of mobile and optical fibre should be both encouraging and reminiscent of traffic connections. Market conditions bring a lot of good and a lot of costs, but common funds must be able to guarantee sufficient and sufficiently high-quality connections to areas that are not managed by the market. Public transport links also include air connections, and they need to be discussed in this context as well. Now, for example, Finavia and Finnair have openly sought ways to secure air connections as comprehensively as possible across the country. Strong air transport is a sine qua non for us as a whole if Finland as a whole wants to participate in the global market. Domestic air transport can therefore be said to have a direct relationship with the development of the national economy. When you go further than the national level, for us in the provinces, air connections are in practice a matter of life and death through the industry operating on the international market. Now, however, the situation depends on hair, and the provinces are always afraid when the state company Finnair says something about domestic routes, because it is often about contractions and for many fields Finnair is the only operating company. Mr President! All in all, as a guiding principle for transport policy, it is not enough to emphasise regional equality, and it must also be a matter for a sitting government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u257	Madam Speaker! Mr Katainen has made such a good speech here that I can only briefly say from this point of view that a debate on transport policy is needed. I do not think it is very appropriate that almost every two weeks the opposition raises interim questions. But, of course, this debate on transport policy is needed in Finland in Parliament. It must also be important for the industry to have a debate on the need for balanced solutions. I would also like to stress that it is very important for the Finnish economy that we make the right transport policy decisions. In that sense, the payment of the repair debt, this 600 million, is a very important issue. Then we really need to find new financial instruments so that we can mobilise development projects. I would then like to emphasise these core routes and also these growth centre routes, which must take road safety into account and develop in such a way as to support Finland and the whole of Finland's economy through the smooth operation of transport, and in that sense we are also competitive. It is good to support the Government and the Minister in this, when we are really doing an active transport policy in Finland now for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u258	Mr President! VR has, understandably, received a lot of attention in today's speeches, and perhaps I will try to understand this situation from VR's point of view, certainly with a very modest experience. I understand that in the midst of all these pressures for change, VR has also expressed its readiness to open up the competition. Of course, it is clear that the rules of the game must be clear and fair. Care must be taken to ensure that VR also owns and maintains the conditions for future development. So the rules of the game must be clear. Among other things, it is necessary to consider what different market operators are obliged to do, how to deal with the obligation traffic, the investment decisions made under the obligation traffic that VR has taken, and so on. One of the most important challenges of opening up competition, as I think the Minister has also said in his various speeches, is the lack of transmission capacity and the condition of the network. After all, the condition of the rail network is also the main reason for the punctuality of train traffic, to which even the signatories of the intermediate question have referred in their question text. In other words, if we start from a back way to open up the competition, the reason is also that there has been insufficient investment in the network over the years. VR has undoubtedly also prepared for the opening of the competition and has worked very hard on it over the last few years. A new system of tickets and sales has been introduced. The total increase in passenger volumes has been driven by bidding prices and various campaigns, including this year's. Over the last few years, over EUR 700 million has been allocated to the modernisation of the equipment. There are two-story wagons, new sleeping cars, new restaurant cars, new electric locomotives. Overall, accuracy has improved enormously in five years. Digital channels have been developed, customer program Veturi has one million customers — and so on and so on. So I have no doubt that VR will continue to succeed even if the competition in transport is opened up earlier than in the current agreements. Here, too, I say that this country is developing and is only doing so with its full strength. This principle must, of course, also be borne in mind in this transport policy. This issue is also very closely related to air transport. It is important to keep awake at all times that the accessibility of the provinces is also ensured through air links. It's important in many ways. I imagine that here we can take the example of our neighbours, Sweden and Norway, for example, of how air transport is carried out there overall. In these countries, it has been avoided that air transport is divided in the same way as in Finland. In Sweden and Norway, regional airports are very strong, unlike in Finland, where air traffic is very strongly concentrated around Helsinki. For example, it is interesting to read the views of the President and CEO of Finnair that a profitable airport would require at least 100,000 passengers per year per airport. I have to ask myself, among other things, how on earth a regional airport can achieve such a potential of 100,000 air customers if simply the number of flights and the capacity of the aircraft do not make it possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u259	Madam President! When talking about traffic, not only can you look at the rear-view or side-view mirrors, but you have to look sharp and bright ahead. This is what is being done now. Mr President! There is a big difference that when — and if — something is at risk of being stopped, everything is done to prevent it, compared to the fact that if — or — something has stopped, it is simply stated that this just happened. Now, in that former situation, when something is in danger of being stopped, everything is done to prevent it. The Centre will look to the future and will do its utmost to secure the mass routes announced for the abolition of public transport, and they should continue to replace it in the future. And, as we have heard today, the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has done and is doing an excellent job in this regard. Mr President! Once I have looked at the interlocutory issue and its text before us today, I would like to make a few points from there. First of all, the signatories to the intermediate question suggest that as a vision for the future, our transport system should open up new opportunities for work, enterprise and housing. That is exactly what the Sipilä Government is doing in its transport policy. In total, EUR 600 million will be added to the maintenance of our basic infrastructure, its budget, over a period of three years. It is a good starting point for making it possible to live in Finland as a whole. Secondly, the signatories point out that VR has been squeezed by the liberalisation of bus and coach transport in passenger transport. That's true, too. That's right. Exactly, there were major changes in bus and coach transport during the last parliamentary term. The sector was in real turmoil, and hundreds, even thousands of shifts, were put to an end, and it would have hoped that this lively debate would also have taken place at that time, how to move forward. Fortunately, the government now considers public transport as a whole, not as separate parts. Thirdly, the opposition points out that the liberalisation of rail transport is a future development to which the EU's railway packages are also taking Finland. That too is true, and this is exactly what the government has reacted to. The government is acting and will not remain in place, for our mass traffic is in a spiral of obsolescence, that is a fact. It's been that for a long time. Finland is one of the last countries in Europe in this development to open up rail passenger transport to competition. Mr President! A few things that have come up today. As far as air transport is concerned, air transport is an integral part of the entire Finnish internal and international transport system. Both here in the capital region and in the provinces, functional airports are needed. Then it has been expected from the opposition that where are the major transport projects that should exist? I think it is important that we invest in basic infrastructure management now, but there will be major transport projects and hopefully there will also be construction. Personally, I am not in favour of the Pisara track that has emerged here. It is a billion-dollar project, and we will certainly not be able to afford it in the next few years or in the near future. The same amount could be used to improve many important items throughout Finland. One project that the previous government has re-evaluated is the dual track between Luomäki and Imatra on the Karelia track. I hope it will also come within the TEN-T network. Mr President! On behalf of my own and the Centre Party, I would like to thank Mr Berner for this debate and I would particularly like to thank him for the work you have done on this subject and for the fact that you have been able to stay in this Chamber all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u260	Representative Korhonen and then Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u261	Mr President! I would have just asked the Minister, as we now have a few people who are really interested in public transport in this Chamber: how would you like to describe this debate now, as you have heard through this debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u262	Next, Minister Berner, five minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u263	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has been important in many ways, and I am pleased that it has now taken place at this point. We have just started the transport arch project, and I believe that it will be an exceptional, large package of legislation that consults the parties and develops an exceptionally large package by means of joint action. Contrary to what the opposition claims on many points, we have not, and I have not, formed a clear, definite preconception as to what the regulation of taxis should be, what the regulation of air transport — if it should be amended — should be, but it is a question of genuinely working together to form a whole that would, above all, enable growth, promote entrepreneurship and boost employment in Finland. This requires a lot of work from all of us, a lot of development and a lot of discussion. In the case of rail transport, we will have to move forward in a certain way through the crisis, but this too is a sort of possibility, and this is an opportunity for both the development of rail transport and VR as a company. I believe that we will see Finland, which in many respects will produce diverse, good solutions that will support the provinces as well as individual citizens and new businesses. For my part, I would like to thank the representatives for the debate and also thank the Bureau for this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u264	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-17-ps-65.u265	For table setting, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 18 November 2015.
