ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u2	First question, Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u3	Madam President! Today thousands of people from all over Finland gathered at a demonstration in Helsinki. The protest was against cuts in housing allowance for pensioners. These people have a genuine need for their own future. In particular, older women, who have already been low-income workers, have taken care of children who have not been able to raise pensions and not sufficient income for themselves, suffer from housing cuts. For this reason, housing aid plays a very important role in the lives and everyday lives of people on low incomes. You promised, Mr Mäntylä, that you would correct the injustice of housing allowance cuts against low-income pensioners. Now it turns out you're not. How do you explain to people that you have chosen the lowest-income pensioners to pay for your savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u4	Mr President! This measure is one of the measures taken by the government programme and we know that it is certainly not easy for anyone. However, we are now in a situation where we must be able to clarify our systems and we must also be able to harmonise them. With regard to the housing allowance for pensioners, we carried out detailed impact assessments on the way this is addressed to the various pensioners, and on that basis we then made a government statement that we will then mitigate these effects and build a so-called ‘protection’ and also a transitional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u6	Mr President! The unfortunate fact is that the abolition of housing allowance for pensioners is not, however, the only source of savings. In addition, the government increases the customer charges for social welfare and health services by more than 20%, cuts the reimbursement of medicines, cuts travel expenses and reduces the purchasing power of pensioners. All pensioners suffer from these cuts. Minister Stubb, now that you on so many fronts are undermining the livelihoods of pensioners, have you calculated the combined effects of these measures on Finnish pensioners who have built this country for us?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u7	Madam President! That is, of course, not the figure I have in my head right now, but every time we build both the budget and the budgetary plan until 2019, we will certainly make impact assessments along the way. It is part of the work that is constantly being done at the Ministry of Finance. Now that we are making extensive adjustments for next year, for example, we are taking EUR 5 billion in additional debt and we are adjusting to some EUR 800 million, then, unfortunately, those cuts will apply to all those who receive income: pensioners, unemployed people, families with children, students. It's the unfortunate truth of surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u8	Mr President! The government says that the impact has been assessed, but unfortunately the question arose as to whether proper assessments have been carried out. For example, if you consider this government proposal to merge housing allowance for pensioners into general housing allowance, the question arises as to whether it will, for example, support informal care in the future in such a way as to support this current housing allowance for pensioners, which is individual, unlike the general housing allowance, which is family-specific. And have you taken into account in the government that pensioners are in a very different position, that there are pensioners who have retired at a very young age for reasons such as mental health, that there are persons born with disabilities, persons with mental disabilities who are in small retirement, that there are many pensioners of working age, but then there are also older people? As a result of this proposal, pensioners can live:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u9	Mr President! In the case of this housing allowance for pensioners, it must be remembered that there will also be pensioners with which this housing allowance will rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u12	Madam President! It is true that the reduction in housing allowance, the weakening of pensioners in particular, is very unfair and has earned a great deal of attention both here in the Chamber of Parliament and, of course, among the citizens. Today, at that Citizens' Market, we met a huge number of angry pensioners. Quite rightly, they were angry about these plans. It is also true that, combined with other cuts in the government programme, this reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners is extremely unreasonable and this is a huge accumulation of loss of subsidies, cuts for just one group of people. It is already estimated that this decision will mean that many pensioners will have to move to income support. Have you, Minister, assessed the impact this will have on the recipients of income support, the number of people receiving income support will rise,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u13	Madam President! Estimates have been made. Of course, those estimates will be clarified, starting with the fact that, now that the law is first translated into being in the Parliament's deliberations, we will see the exact content of how things will change. Secondly, the budget is prepared for the increase in the amount of income support on the basis of the estimate and the best information we currently have. The overall impact assessment has become such a fashion word that it is asked whether you have carried out an overall assessment. On the other hand, we must remember that we will invest, for example, in home services for the ageing population, home care, support for informal care. These are the things that are on the other side where we try to make that safety net so that as many people as possible can live at home and for as long as possible. Then one error correction regarding the claim that all payments will rise: for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u14	Mr President! Indeed, in expert consultations it has become clear that the government's proposals and budget have not produced sufficient estimates of what these effects are at individual level. And we are already talking about people on low incomes, ordinary pensioners, who are now experiencing various cuts and increases in contributions from many quarters. We already have one of the highest customer fees in the OECD countries, for example, and they will now be raised even further, so that the disposable income will be reduced to such a low level that people will end up in the income support hatch. There are also many elements, such as the reduction of the pensioner’s housing allowance, which will lead to the loss of people’s ability to survive at home alone — to avoid going to institutions. So I ask Minister Mäntylä: are you going to have adequate individual impact assessments of what these really mean in people's everyday lives?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u15	Mr President! As has been pointed out earlier, of course we will look at these things along the way and follow, it is quite natural. Of course, the impact will be assessed all the time when these processes are being carried forward. And, as Mr Rehula has already mentioned, we must also remember that we have a lot of things in government programmes that specifically support the position of these pensioners and precisely that of doing well at home, surviving at home, and that includes increasing the support and endurance of family carers. With regard to these savings on medicines and travel expenses, we have specifically sought a solution that is fair, and it also treats them equally, especially insofar as, for example, it is not only the users of medicines who are being paid for them, but also, in accordance with social responsibility, the other actors who are involved in it as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u16	Madam President! Two concrete things. Conversion of housing allowance for pensioners into general housing allowance: For example, the cost impact assessment is that it is known that there were EUR 743 a month for people receiving a guarantee pension whose housing allowance would have been reduced. The minus mark would have been 200 euros, even more. What's been done? Now, in the context of coordination, there is a buffer, a maximum of EUR 60 per month, which may be reduced by housing allowance, to ensure that such excesses do not materialise. Secondly, when it comes to illness: Sickness makes people poorer, it is one of the causes of poverty. The caps on payments will remain unchanged, which will have a central impact on the livelihoods of the people who are much affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u17	Värderade fru talman! Det är nog så att den är mycket problematisk, den rai aviserade nedskärningen av pensionärnernas bostadstöd som regeringen nu går in för, och jag undrar om regeringen har tittat på erempelvis hur man har gjort i Sverige där man har — om jag har förstått saken rätt — ett gemensamt kostnadstak för både mediciner, vårdkostnader och självrisk överhuvudtaget som öberör pensionärer i den service de behöver ofta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u18	Madam President! These harmonisations of the payment ceilings have been prepared during several reigns. This system of ours is such that such a single ceiling, as good as it sounds, as good as it would be that a person is one whole at this point and is that one aspect and one maximum... It sounds good, and that goal still exists — but when there are those practical things. And when, representative, you asked if there was any familiarity, yes, we have seen, among other things, why it is difficult to reconcile the different ceilings. This is because of our bureaucratic model, our so diverse social security and the different nature of payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u19	Mr President! Our elderly deserve a decent livelihood and a human life. Yesterday, on television, I heard that Minister Ruhula, whom I greatly appreciated, felt that human resources were not relevant to the quality of care. Do you think I heard you and understood you correctly? For ten years, I myself have trained high-quality and rehabilitative care and worked alongside nurses as a change coach and I know that maintaining the ability to function and securing a self-like life requires three things: the right attitude, professional and competent staff and sufficient resources. If the size of personnel falls from the current 0.5, the level of care, care and rehabilitation will certainly fall. Our old people don't deserve this. It's a matter of value. Have you, Minister Rehula, visited the everyday life of care and care, for example, in the service houses?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u20	Madam President! Yes, I have been, and I see very close to my own circle of life, what it is when you need care and care, if not 24 hours a day, so often. We have a number of people who need a one-to-one measure: constant follow-up, closeness to another person, the fact that nothing can happen that a person harms himself. The voice of one single chapter is impossible. We have a need for care and care, which requires a one-to-one dimension.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u21	Madam President! Certainly, Minister Rehula, there is such a need for care, but it is well known that there are no hands in care of the elderly, and that is one big, really big problem of quality in the care of the elderly. The government intends to cut the reimbursements of medicines quite harshly, by EUR 50 million, even though the contributions are already at a high international level. At the same time as these other cuts and increases in customer fees are carried out, the combined effect of these changes is hard for low-income pensioners. I ask Minister Ruhula: has the government taken into account that, after these changes, some elderly people may not be able to buy the medicines they need, because they cannot afford them — we are familiar with this phenomenon — and so have to be hospitalized? I ask: is the government prepared to increase the costs of special medical care for these changes?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u22	Mr President! This medical treatment for older people is a very important and fundamental issue in this debate, and we in the government and the ministry have also had a great deal of discussion about this rational medical treatment. This is the direction we should be pursuing in the future, instead of making these savings on medical reimbursements — precisely because medical treatment is always meaningful and always necessary — because it is well known that, at the moment, we have, for example, elderly people who eat unnecessarily medicines that they do not necessarily need, there is overlap. We believe that this is now the direction we must take in the future, and it is through it that we must also be able to find those savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u23	Mr President! The government is spreading the climate of insecurity in this country with its presentations, and especially with the elderly, this insecurity seems to be the concrete feedback that has been received, for example, in the course of today's press and then as an e-mail to us representatives. I would like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term, Parliament made a unanimous declaration of will for the recording of sufficient staffing in connection with the Act on Elderly Services. Minister Rehula, you were doing this unanimous expression of will and so was the Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister and Finance Minister. We are talking about the possibility of externalisation and the right to food, food, change of diapers in a timely manner, and without adequate staff, that will not be possible. I'm sure you've already heard that SuPer will contact the EU authorities and ask you to investigate the state of care for the elderly in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u24	Madam President! The concern is justified and genuine. A single figure — five per 10 or four per 10 carers — always has to be remembered is the need for services. This kind of enhanced service housing in 7/24 units, houses, nursing homes, there are very different people, and those different people need something more than that cold number: there may be a need from time to time, in the houses and places where care solutions are made, outdoor decisions are made, from those people more than any one of these zero dots of something. How forward? The other side — what the government is trying to do and what our objective is — is that we should have a whole new approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u25	Mr President! There's a lot of old people in distress right now. In Finland, women’s payday will be celebrated tomorrow. The female wage bill is currently 83 cents and a few tenths on top, but the female pension euro is only about 75 cents. The research group estimates that these cuts for government pensioners are largely targeted at low-income pensioners, a large proportion of whom are women. The withdrawal of the guarantee pension is only a small compensation for all the cuts that have been made, and that is why I ask: what are your plans specifically for improving the situation of retired women, who are very weak at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u26	Mr President! As I have said before, yes, these cuts and the measures taken by our government are certainly not fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u29	Mr President! These statements by the opposition will, of course, give a rather gloomy picture of the position of pensioners in view of next year's budget. However, there are two things that are missing, and it is good to raise them. The government is therefore turning the housing allowance for pensioners into the same conditions and forms as it is, for example, in the case of a low-income two-parent families with children — in other words, similar terms. Secondly, by way of derogation from the Government Programme, the Government has changed the way in which the operation is carried out and will create this ceiling of EUR 60. However, I would perhaps like to ask now that the picture has been painted gloomy — I myself, as a representative of the government party, was able to participate in that demonstration, and the debate is necessary, and of course the government parties have to endure criticism of their proposals — is this true, the government, that the whole picture of the situation of pensioners with regard to the budget is this, or is there anything good coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u30	Madam President! Next year, a law will be introduced to Parliament in the spring, in which the status of family carer will be improved, the practices of home care and care are being revised and renewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u31	Mr President! It is clear that pensioners have earned valuable old age and their purchasing power must also be safeguarded, and in that sense the question is justifiable. But now this question itself, which comes to mind, is that many pensioners have a very large apartment and many would like to change it to a smaller one, but that is not possible because Ara's rules are so strict. Pensioners in Ara’s queue cannot easily change to a smaller one because they are not primarily in line because they are not homeless. Can there be any flexibility in this matter on the part of the government to give it to pensioners who want its smaller place? It would also allow us to save on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u32	Madam President! This question raised by Mr Niiko is very relevant, and it came up a few weeks ago, for example, in those tenants' days. It would certainly make sense for the functioning of society if, when a person considers that there is no need for so much squares to live in it, there would be more flexibility in switching to a smaller one, and I am happy to be able to send a message to the Ara leadership that more flexibility would be available here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u33	Mr President! I think it's important that we don't change the subject. I would like to quote one important government agent, namely the Deputy Prime Minister, from his own blog on 15 March, in which Soini states that, in the run-up to the elections, the kepu was sitting on the rally by announcing its support for the freezing of the smallest benefits in the next parliamentary term. And you say in this blog that this is an expensive mistake: "Guarantee pensioners, family carers and recipients of the lowest unemployment allowance understand that their purchasing power is of no interest to them."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u34	Madam President! The guarantee pension will rise by around EUR 23 per month, which is EUR 23 more than the Social Democrats did last season. You didn't get this through in the government, this government did it together. Just as Minister Rehula said, the support for informal care is also rising, so that there are these plus points,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u37	Mr President! Firstly, the guarantee pension is unfortunately not EUR 23 but EUR 20. That's good too, but it's not good enough. I would also like to say that it is a good thing that the government invests in home care and informal care, that is absolutely good. But the other side of this coin is that while investing in informal care and home care, the government cuts the reimbursement of medical costs, increases the customer charges for social and health services, and thereby weakens people's access to services at home. So I ask Minister Ruhula: how do you take care of the development of home services and the development of family care, that no person who needs services at home will be prevented from receiving these services?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u38	Madam President! The modern road has come to the end of the road. We need to be able to change, reform existing operating models, do things differently from what we have done today. It would be enough, for example, to introduce the best models of home care in the country as a whole. Saving euros and even improving the level of services. How do we ensure that everyone can experience a sense of security? For example, this change in the housing allowance for a pensioner: the central objective was this relief, this roof that is being made to this end, that every person, despite this change, could live in their own home. Yes, this assessment has been made, and this government has had a conscience at the point when these solutions have been taken as far as they have been at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u39	I will give you two more questions about this theme. First of all, Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u40	Madam President! Balancing the economy is particularly in the interests of the most vulnerable. It is important that these measures are taken, but the effects must also be known and felt. It is good that a single housing allowance system is made with care and that the impact is assessed. The housing allowance for pensioners also affected people with disabilities, and it is good that the Minister replied that when this assessment is made and the bill is being prepared, careful consideration is also given to the objective of disability policy that disabled people can live independently and be involved in society. And when the Minister of Finance is here: is it possible that in the future the state budget will have a population-based impact assessment for pensioners, disabled people and families with children, for example, so that this assessment would be linked to the general budget justifications when such major changes have to be made during this period? That would be great if this reform were to be carried out because it was not done by the previous government, and now I am calling for these impact assessments. Could we now do this as a government party?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u41	In fact, I understood that this question was addressed to the Minister for Finance. But, yes, of course, these things raised by the representative and all these impact assessments we are doing all the time along the way. This government isn't a government that can't do it. If we find that something is having such negative effects on a large scale now, then of course there must also be the readiness to re-evaluate them. But here I would also like to remind you that it is precisely through these key projects that we are now seeking such a wide-ranging change which will enable us to do otherwise, so that we do not have to make such savings in the future, but that we will put this system on such a sustainable basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u42	Does Minister Stubb wish to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u43	Madam President! The impact assessments will always come at a detailed level in the legislative process; in the budgetary plan they can be carried out at a rough and broad level. We will certainly be investing in this in the future, especially in what money can buy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u44	The last question will be asked by Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u45	Mr President! I was there next door today at a protest organized by senior citizens. There were many people there who were very, very concerned about the livelihood of low - income pensioners. The concern is well-founded and justified. In this situation, this differentiation in the taxation of employees and pensioners is also driven in the same direction by the decisions of this government. Prime Minister Sipilä, this government is driving low-income pensioners deeper into poverty. This government is strongly dividing the Finnish people in two with a violent and hard hand. This debate also shows that the government does not seem to be very prepared to correct these proposals on its own. So we need a mid-term issue. We will do so in the coming weeks together with the Greens, the Left Alliance and the Christians. What do you think, Prime Minister, of this assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u46	Madam President! The opposition has the right to an intermediate issue, and we will certainly respond and prepare for it. This situation in Finland is certainly not easy. We have a EUR 10 billion sustainability gap, to which we will have to respond, both through cuts, by seeking growth, and by making reforms that have been going on for a long time. Now we cannot fail to do any of these pieces, but we must try and keep going, do all the things that this situation requires. Unfortunately, we have to operate, and when we do, there will be many beneficiaries who will then be cut. What is more important now is that we in the work force bear its share of this burden and make these painful reforms, which we are facing, that we can get through employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u47	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u48	Mr President! The Prime Minister referred to the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap. According to the Parliamentary Audit Committee, Finland loses as much as EUR 6 billion annually due to tax evasion. Reducing tax evasion would be a much better and fairer way of reducing debt than cutting back on education and the poorest. In its program, the government promises to take action against tax evasion, but it actually seems to be doing the opposite. The government will reduce the budget for preventing the shadow economy from the police by 6 million, which is estimated to reduce the government's revenue by more than twice as much. The government also announced that it would promote a register of management against the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Tax Administration, which would allow the holding of shares to be hidden in foreign banks and behind complex chains. Today, however, the Minister of Foreign Affairs announced that this project will be cancelled. So I'm asking, does the government understand what it's doing? For example, does the government want to prevent tax evasion or, on the contrary, does the government want to promote it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u49	Madam President! I think there were a lot of things in that question together, and the direct answer to that question, of course, is whether we want to prevent tax evasion, is 'yes', of course. The government has a few measures in this regard. The first is that we are increasing the fight against the shadow economy and against tax evasion, about EUR 50 million for internal security. In addition, we are working very closely with our international partners in this regard. I was in Luxembourg on Monday and Tuesday, and one of the items we discussed there was the exchange of tax information. Let me take an example: Apple today, as a company, does not pay tax anywhere because they have made a special agreement with the Irish State. Now we have come to a solution which will not be able to conclude such agreements in the future. The management register is then a different entity, but I am also prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u50	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u51	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, spoke about the exchange of information that has been agreed in the EU, and that is a very good thing. However, the situation is that the second year in Finland, large companies paid less than 7 per cent of their corporate profits, but small companies paid up to 24 per cent, which shows that the largest companies are best placed to use the differences in taxation between countries for different tax evasion and tax evasion. In the EU, the so-called Lux Leaks scandal has raised this issue in a new way. There are many things that can be done in the EU in addition to previous decisions, and now I ask whether the government in the EU wants to support the extension of the country-by-country reporting obligation for companies, for example, to all international companies operating in a given size, or the common basis for calculating corporate tax in the EU, even though corporate tax levels
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u52	Madam President! We are working within the European Union on the basis that taxation as such is not harmonised but that the distribution of tax information is increased. That is what we did on Monday and Tuesday in Luxembourg, and that is what we will do in the future. In my view, Mr Hassi is on the right track that many international, multinational companies worldwide create a tax planning system that is difficult to monitor. Within the European Union, we have a single market in which people, goods, services and money move freely. It also means that we must find a system in which the tax systems of stock exchanges or large companies are seen transparently. That is why we have an internal market in the European Union, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u53	Mr President! The Parliamentary Audit Committee has now been going through the informal economy in autumn in relation to the previous parliamentary decisions that have taken place and has revealed some truly astonishing findings. The first is that we have been doing very effective work over the last few years and it has produced a lot more tax revenue for the state. These robbers have been caught, and thus these expenses have been a small part of the income that has come. It is now known that next year's budget is short of 6 million to continue the activities of experienced financial investigators for next year. The figure these scientists have produced per year is even higher than Mr Hassi here estimates: it is therefore close to EUR 50 million in direct income, not to mention the multiplier effect. Now it comes to mind that we should not use this 6 million instead of putting these financial investigators in some other positions at the turn of the year,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u54	Madam President! Actually, three answers: First of all, so that there is no misunderstanding that when we deal with Finnish people and companies, the majority, 99.9% of them, are honest, good employees and entrepreneurs. We should not create the impression that we are, as it were, farming a grey economy in this country, because we are not doing it. The second point relates to international cooperation. After all, within the OECD we also have 15 different measures under the BEPS umbrella, which we are trying to eradicate that grey economy. And a final comment on the 6 million which Mr Heinäluoma has just referred to: yes, the Ministry of the Interior, through internal transfers, can act on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u55	Mr President! If the management register proposal is progressing, then the Finnish Financial Association, tax evaders and banks will be able to say that this is the day of the account. The proposal would facilitate tax evasion, money laundering and insider dealing. The management register proposal has been criticised by the police and the prosecutor as well as by the tax office. The Ministry of Finance was already working on a project to conceal ownership during the last term, but the left-wing coalition, the SDP and the Greens prevented this from happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u58	Madam President! I think there were quite a few interesting words in that question: 'tax evasion','money laundering', 'grey economy', 'integrity information' and 'dark money'. Just for the sake of clarity: this CSD Regulation, which is already in force today, is certainly not about that. It is mainly a matter of Finland being a small country with a very small market. If we do not go along with this central securities depository regulation, it is quite possible that we will be left out of it as it were. There are two different systems. One is direct accounts and the other is a management register. In addition to Finland, direct accounts are provided in the following countries: Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Slovenia and Slovakia. Everyone else has a control register, except Sweden, which has both. What we are proposing in these detailed preparations, which are therefore:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u59	Mr President! The fight against the shadow economy is important and made good progress during the last term of government. Finland was given the opportunity to continue our current practice in terms of the transparency of stock market holdings. I find it quite extraordinary that the Ministry of Finance and Minister Stubb have now brought this proposal for a register of management back to the table, although the working group on this issue has hardly met and even though the police, the tax authorities, the judiciary are still critical of it. I know you've made certain improvements there. I know that, despite opposition from the Group's mother party, there has been an automatic exchange of information at European level and the fight against the shadow economy. That's a good thing. But experts and authorities say that it will not be enough to maintain modern transparency in stock market holdings. This is particularly important because the links between economic and social decision-makers must be transparent in the public domain. It is also important to minimise investor risk. The investor needs to know who the owners are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u60	Madam President! I'd assume a representative. Niinistö considers the free movement of people, goods, services and money within the European Union to be a good thing. That is certainly our starting point. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that capital and operators remain in Finland. There is no change in transparency in that respect. In fact, information at two levels, i.e. both public authorities and general information, will improve and improve. Today, Mr Niinistö, the CSD is a Belgian monopoly, it is a Belgian monopoly here in Finland. It's the only one holding this information. On the basis of this new proposal, which you did not refer to, I believe you referred to the old one, the 2014 one, in fact, in real time we are able to provide this information, i.e. transparency. Today, if we don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u61	Madam President! Indeed, this EU Securities Market Regulation was discussed last season in the European Parliament and, as a member of the EPP Group, it was there that I was able to negotiate a record in line with the last term's government policy, which enabled Finland to continue with this current practice. Instead, Finland has been an exception in the sense that we have indeed had a monopoly on one company, and it is certainly appropriate to change that in that respect. But now I think it is important to take time off on this issue, because there is no point in creating a situation where people think that some tax evasion and secrecy are actually being created here. It would be important for us to wait until 2017 to see how this automatic exchange of information will work. On the other hand, the banks can tell us what kind of register they are setting up, which guarantees that this transparency will continue, because, after all, transparency is at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u62	Madam President! That's right. This is, in fact, based on two entities, one of which is public access and the other on public access. As far as public access is concerned, it could actually be argued that this will be strengthened, so that in this proposal we would have to put on the table each time the owner, his social security number, the amount of his or her value shares, the income paid and the information on the transactions. In a multi-step management register, this would remain an obligation. In other words, the aim is to increase transparency in Finland. To make this clear, I say that we will not be able to influence the activities of other authorities in another EU country, but what we can do is to promote the exchange of tax information. That is why there is a two-year transition period until that tax information agreement comes into force and that will give us better information. This is not intended to hide, this is a long run to open up and ensure that capital and operators remain in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u63	Madam President! Of course, it is good to see that the motion comes first here and goes through. And as the government side is insured, the performance is different from the 2012 performance, which will safeguard that view. It is also about this European exchange of information, and it makes it much, much better, plus it is promised here that the information behind the management register will be communicated in a fair and real-time manner. Actually, I would ask that we wait and watch the show and then move on. But the other side of this is that Finns need work, Finnish companies need capital, and if the cost of raising capital decreases, it will increase work and opportunities. Surely the minister has information on how much the current Finnish costs of this book-entry account are higher than in neighbouring countries, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u64	Madam President! Yes, it is. In fact, the benefits of a possible model of this kind are that the consumer wins, the maintenance costs fall, the investor gets to choose and the capital market costs fall. If we look directly at those costs at the moment, then our system is about two or three times more expensive than Sweden. If we look at direct costs on a calculated basis, the consumer would save such EUR 28 to 35 million. Why? Because it's normal. If we have a CSD, which is a monopoly, it will pull it out. When we get more competitors in this field, that means that the total costs are falling and capital flows significantly better and consumers benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u65	One further question on this theme is put by Mrs Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u66	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to remember, however, when the Minister of Finance mentioned these benefits, that, for example, the Confederation of Share savers has taken a negative view of this — that is, those who represent retail investors. It is true that this securities regulation is in force, but the Minister is not telling us that it does not need to be implemented in such a way that we should go to these management registers where we can hide property, securities, abroad. Now the main problem with this proposal is that when it is illegal today through foreign management registers, as it were, to hide and circumvent this publicity, now with the presentation you are making, this would be made legal. And when you say that you should not use the words 'grey economy' or 'inner circle' or 'tax evasion', the Helsinki police have estimated that this will bring opportunities for criminals, and the Prosecutor General has estimated that this will directly increase crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u67	Madam President! I think it's a representative. Lindtman certainly referred to that proposal from a few years ago. We have tried to make corrections to this. Now, just as a basic observation: I think the Data Protection Supervisor has said today that this proposal we are proposing may actually be too far-reaching. Perhaps I would give Mr Lindtman two examples of this difficulty. The first is that, without this change, one of the 130 listed companies in Finland can today transfer its entire operations to a foreign CSD without the Finnish authorities having any access to information. If we do this reform, then they will have this. Let me give another example: If, for example, a Finn owns shares in a French company on the Paris Stock Exchange and a Finnish company merges with it, then it would be illegal for him to own it. Last comment: I do not think that it is worth spreading the wrong word in that sense, as the current system makes it much easier to hide.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u68	We still have time to take a few more speeds. The following question is asked by representative Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u69	Mr President! The secret of successful diplomacy is not only negotiating skills but also effective networking and social interaction. Our country's missions abroad will therefore play an important role in maintaining and developing the image of Finland. The reception of Finland's Independence Day has long been an important opportunity not only to celebrate the anniversary of our country but also to meet leading politicians and other diplomats and important people on the business and cultural side of the country. But it's not anymore. On 17 September 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent a shepherd's letter to all our country's representations, in which the U.S. prohibits delegations from organising the reception of Independence Day this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u70	Mr President! During the last government, this practice goes on and, unfortunately, it continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u71	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u73	Madam President! This is an absolutely essential point raised by Mr Räsänen and he is familiar with matters as a former Minister for the Interior. I met the Iraqi Foreign Minister in New York. They have lost a letter from us seeking to obtain a contract similar to that they have with Sweden. This matter is being taken forward, and I believe that we will be able to achieve a good result here. In addition to this, we also need a list of safe countries at EU level; we need clear decisions at European Union level. We are now negotiating with Turkey, among other things. If they tighten their border controls, it will immediately reduce the pressure here. I met all these ministers, the Somali Foreign Minister, Turkey and Iraq, and I personally took these concerns to them. I will do my best to make improvements here — all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u74	Next question, Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u75	Mr President! The aim of the Sote reform is to make welfare services a seamless entity. People will no longer have to know the limit between social and health services. The aim is also the seamless integration of basic and specialised services. Only by taking all these aspects into account can we achieve the enormous savings that this reform is aiming to achieve. In total, Finland’s social and health expenditure amounts to approximately EUR 70 billion. Of that amount, approximately EUR 15 billion will be spent on medical and health expenditure and more than EUR 50 billion on social matters. Thus, the social sector accounts for about 70 per cent of all social and health expenditure. However, the public debate is only beginning to cover the other side of the reform, namely health care and, more specifically, the number of hospitals. My question to the Minister is: how do you intend to move the social reform forward in such a way that the social sector receives the attention it deserves?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u76	Madam President! The essence of the whole change that is necessary for our service system is that we are creating a SO-TE, a change in social welfare and health care, a reform. It is the model that we are the first to try in the world, but we are also the first in the world to face the situation in which the number of people who need a lot of services will grow. How do you ensure that? This will be ensured by the fact that things are written into the law that strengthen those service chains and strengthen the joint conduct of social care, in particular services for the ageing population, and health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u77	And one more question, it is asked by Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u78	Madam President! Finland’s economy is in turmoil. During its history, Finland has always traded with Russia. Today, of course, the sanctions imposed by the EU and the USA and the Russian counter-constraints have caused this current situation to fade away. This is a major blow to the Finnish economy, and it is estimated that agriculture alone has suffered a loss of EUR 200 million from this. However, the situation is that Russia's sanctions are being considered in the EU at the turn of the year. These current sanctions will remain in force until the end of January. The situation in the world has changed in that Russia, so to speak, is investing more in Syria than in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u79	Madam President! Russia is indeed an important trading partner for us and we must continue to invest in it. But it is also true that since 2012, when the Russian economy started to deteriorate, our exports to Russia have decreased. In fact, Russia is only the fifth largest trading partner when it was much higher in the past. Last year alone, our exports to Russia fell by 14 per cent, although for only six months the sanctions were in force. This year the decline has already been minus 33%. It is clear that we must continue to have good trade relations with Russia, but at the same time we must invest elsewhere. We must work fully to find a replacement market and, to some extent, we have succeeded, because our exports are about zero in comparison with previous years. At the turn of the year, sanctions will be examined at the summit of Heads of State and, of course, in the light of the criteria of the Minsk Treaty in particular, and we can only hope that we can move forward. But the situation doesn't look good at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u80	(Arousing—The President-in-Office)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u81	Mr President! Health care, the status and human rights of girls and women have been quite good in Finland compared to many other countries. When I've been in the world, it's been great to tell you that I'm from Finland, to be kind of like a chest on a rattling proud of a lot of accomplishments here. The situation has been different when the rights and opportunities of women-dominated sectors, health care, workers and those seeking to enter the sector have been discussed in Finland. That's what I've been ashamed of. Unlike the rest of Europe, in Finland in the 21st century the right to study and work for girls and women will be trampled on and restricted on the basis of conviction. Access to study, access to a job, its preservation and career advancement can be hindered by conviction, by not being able to participate in ending another life. At present, it is a question of taking part in abortions, possibly later euthanasia. Both are about life and ending it. This also applies to men. Mr President! A citizens' initiative aimed at raising Finnish legislation to a pan-European level was initiated by professionals and students without any background organisation, organisation or party. I, could you say, as a gynecologist who has seen and experienced everything during his studies, am one of the people who initiated the initiative. The initiative aims to bring into law a new article on abortion: the statutory right of health care staff, on the basis of ethical or religious convictions, not to participate in abortion unless a woman’s life is at risk. The citizens' initiative therefore concerns staff and students in the field, not patients. In other words, the initiative does not affect the current rights of those wishing to have abortions or the possibility of having abortions if they so wish — the law guarantees this. However, Finland must also have a law, which also guarantees women the right not to participate in abortions without losing diverse and unique professions, such as those of gynecologists and midwives. For years armed military service has also been able to refuse on the basis of conviction, even though it is practiced. Mr President! The Minister of State — now absent — and ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, will correct the situation in accordance with the requirements of the Finnish Constitution, the Non-Discrimination Act and, among other things, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights: to eliminate this violation of human rights and to treat people in Finland, patients, nurses, midwives and doctors equally, regardless of their conviction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u82	Let's start with the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to reserve a minute's speaking time to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u83	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is at the very heart of the matter. It is proposed that the worker should also have a subjective right to refuse treatment in a situation where abortion is necessary to save the life of a woman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u86	Madam President! I do not quite understand Mr Haatainen's point. It is precisely in the new article that we are proposing that it is very clear that ethical or religious convictions can give rise to the right to refuse unless the life of a woman is in danger, and no one has ever thought of anything else. If, for example, there is an extrauterine pregnancy that needs to be treated, then all of them certainly do, and there is no need for specific training measures, but laparoscopic measures, including extrauterine pregnancy, are quite normal gynecologist activities, and all of them do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u87	Madam President! I am surprised at Mr Hatainen's speech because you know that only in Finland and Sweden in Western Europe do health care staff have the legal right to refuse, on the basis of conviction, abortions or statements relating to them. I think it is quite intolerable to defend the lack of freedom of conscience by somehow jeopardising the rights of the patient or obstructing the right to abortion. This has not happened in any other country, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark and so on. Why in Finland cannot this protection of conscience, conviction, be given to health workers when it operates in other countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u88	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, Mr Rauhala made a much similar proposal, and at that time both I and other representatives of the Left Alliance supported it. However, this proposal deviated from the present citizens' initiative at one crucial point. In fact, it placed the woman’s right to abortion first and foremost past the right of staff to decide on the basis of their consciences who they care for and who they do not care for. This is a crucial difference, and this is the difference, which is why I cannot support this citizens' initiative. Neither the article itself nor the explanatory statement give priority to the right to abortion. Both of these rights are in the international human rights debate in the grey area, but only one of them is directly related to human life and health. I think it's clear who comes first.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u89	Madam President! This is certainly a sensitive and vision-sharing subject, but I hope that we will indeed have a debate here in a spirit of respect for one another, as it seems we are doing at the moment. It was a good thing that Mr Kontula raised this point, because it is precisely the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that can be derived from the fact that, for reasons of conscience, medical staff or doctors in the country have the opportunity not to perform abortions, then at the same time it must be ensured that the patient is granted the rights which he is legally entitled to. This is precisely what this citizens' initiative makes quite clear, that is, that it is not going to take anyone's rights to abortion, that it is only going to make it possible for the medical staff not to have to take part in these abortion measures contrary to their own conscience. This can be done by working arrangements. Just as Mr Räsänen said here, in all Western European countries this is quite the norm, only Finland and Sweden are in an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u90	Mr President! When this debate is being held here, as the previous speaker said, Mrs Essayah, I also hope that we will respect each other. But, in fact, what is at issue here and what should be addressed is specifically what Mr Kontula referred to: the right of women to abortion. That is what this is all about, and in every situation we must respect this and we must be able to guarantee that. Then we will have to go into these arguments and, unfortunately, this is not the first thing in the explanatory statement for the initiative, and then we will have to ask what this initiative is looking for. For myself, the right of everyone to decide for themselves whether or not to interrupt a pregnancy is a priority. Such an initiative should not go to risk this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u91	Mr President! Experience shows that although I am sure that those who take the initiative are not meant, perhaps directly at least, to produce results which make the services of abortion more difficult to achieve, I still believe that experience in Europe shows that this has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u92	Mr President! In this respect, the authors of the initiative highlight the recommendations of international organisations but ignore the recommendations of the national health unions and the fact that they can already be agreed locally that it does not need new legislation. In particular, I would like to refer to the writing by Archaeologist Risto Pelkonen in the Medical Journal, where he writes in this way that 'the granting of freedom of conscience in the field of abortion could also increase the demands for exemption from other morally sensitive treatments'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u95	Madam President! If a doctor had the right to refuse abortion on grounds of conscience, we would, for example, put women in a regionally unequal position. How will the health of the woman whose only doctor in the area refuses to have an abortion be safeguarded? I myself come from Central Finland, I come from Eastern Finland, and I can think that even one doctor's refusal in small health centres could mean the whole service being shut down. What would this mean for these women? The right to refuse puts women in an unequal position, particularly in terms of residence, income, socio-economic status, language skills and travel opportunities. I would draw attention to the very important point made by the representative of Estonia: the debate would inevitably be extended to other morally burdensome health care tasks, inevitably.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u96	And Minister Soini would like to speak. — One minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u98	Madam President! I find it quite confusing that Foreign Minister Soini is taking a strong stand here. Mr President! At the outset, it must be said that Finnish law is relatively strict on a European scale and that abortion rates are low in Finland compared to the Nordic neighbours. In his first speech, Mr Tanus said that this freedom of choice applies to the staff and, of course, the customers will do what they do. But I do get worried that if the medical staff refuses to take abortions, does it increase the stigma associated with abortion? It has been said that, on the basis of the experience of abortion, a major factor contributing to recovery is a humane and respectful encounter, and I fear that this will be jeopardised by the implementation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u99	Mr President! This proposal is, in itself, very good and worthy of support, and this issue of human rights and freedom of conscience should definitely be respected and developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u102	Mr President! A rather chilly approach from the left is the health care professional’s point of view. However, we know that the health professional in the first place is meant to go into a profession where he wants to save life, not destroy life: he wants to improve, he wants to do the good he is trained for. This is a very small part of the working time of a health care professional to have to participate in or have an abortion. Now it must be remembered that if a person feels in his conviction that he will end human life, even though a person is not yet born, it is quite cold - tempered to say that you must do it regardless of what you are experiencing. It is also a human rights issue to give freedom of choice on this issue, because we can organise this in other ways. This has been organised in all European countries in other ways. Is Finland such a developing country in terms of health care that we run out of doctors and midwives if such freedom of conscience is allowed? I don't think so. I think this is an excellent citizens' initiative,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u103	Madam President! I must begin by saying that I do understand the conviction and the conviction of the authors of this initiative, that is not the case. With regard to the reference to refusing military service on the basis of conviction, I do not think that this initiative is comparable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u106	Madam President! First of all, I understand what many Members have said and I understand that you do not have a very good idea of the practical situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u111	This is a one-minute speech, a period of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u112	Mr President! First of all, I do respect life, for sure. But this is such a Pandora's box that if you open it, if you can refuse the job you're trained to do,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u117	Chairman! I do not believe that any woman — or very few women, at least, who is faced with the situation of having to consider abortion — is doing so lightly. Perhaps my concern about this initiative has to do with whether a woman is facing even greater pressure in such a situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u118	Madam President! I myself come from a country of origin where, by no means, the self-determination of a woman is no choice, and I am very surprised that I am hearing this debate in the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u119	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u198	Mr President! To begin with, Mr Essayah's view of what is a fundamental right is much wider than what is normally used to. Of course, none of the practices of the European Court of Human Rights prohibit states from giving health care staff the opportunity to regulate their job description on an ethical basis, but there is, firstly, nothing that would oblige them to do so, and, secondly, there is an obligation that, if abortion is possible in a country, it should be available and accessible equally to all. In my view, it is impossible to deny, in the light of European experience, whether or not this is a case of two-judicial collision, and precisely one in which neither of them is so strong on the basis of human rights that it can be regarded as absolute and universal on the basis of the judgments of the international human rights bodies. This is also a question of two rights, both of which, at the moment, in Finland, are being implemented quite well, despite the fact that more than one expansion effort has been put forward in the debate for both of them. I myself am in favour of extending the right to abortion in such a way that there is no need for specific reasons when applying for abortion. On the other hand, the citizens' initiative then calls for another type of enlargement. The two fundamental rights, which are, as it were, opposed, are freedom of religion and conscience on the one hand and, on the other hand, the right of women to abortion on the other. In freedom of religion and conscience, a person’s right to believe and practice his religion has traditionally been considered a core area, and in this respect we are not in that core area of freedom of religion. This also raises a number of open questions. An example of a priest who does not want to work with women has already emerged from this debate. We may have a peacekeeper who does not want to carry a weapon or a food worker who opposes gmo-manipulated products and still acquires work for Saarioinen. This simply means that this question is open, this question is something that we will encounter many more times, where we must draw the line and where there is no unambiguous authority or correct answer to where it is placed. However, it is essential to consider that whatever the right point is, it does not conflict with this right to abortion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u199	Madam President! Throughout history, politicisation in women’s wombs has been quite a favorite theme for many politicians. The subject is such that it is quite easy to talk about this when you have never been in the situation where these women are, who have to make this decision, when you never have to go through the shame, the fear that these women are going through. The fact that our abortion law is, in fact, very strict has already come up quite well here. It is one of the most stringent in the EU. After all, we do not rely solely on a woman’s own judgment, we do not trust that when a woman says she needs this abortion she will get it. There has been so much appeal to the EU now in this theme and debate that we will probably then see that these same people, who are constantly appealing to the EU, will then present the same kinds of policies and reliefs to Finnish abortion legislation that can be found in other EU countries. But perhaps we all know now that this is not going to happen, and that is why, in this Chamber, this initiative is most passionately defended by those people who are actually opposed to abortion and who want to make it more difficult to have it. There was already talk of how this puts women in a position of inequality in this country. But when I used to talk about how these women feel, I really hope that when they talk about killing, ending a child’s life, they would at that point wonder what it feels like for these women, what it feels like for the women you are talking about. While there are also quite a lot of midwives in this Chamber, we are happy to talk about midwives, so perhaps at this point it is worth listening to the Midwives Association which opposes this initiative. Madam President! In my opinion, abortion legislation should by no means be tightened, quite the contrary. The best way to reduce abortions is to increase sexual education, to facilitate access to contraceptives and to reduce poverty. I would like these to be the things that would be proposed in this Chamber if abortions were to be reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u200	Madam Speaker! It is precisely the reduction of poverty, the issue of prevention that is needed. Congressman Kari said if we knew how those women felt. I can tell you that for more than 20 years now I have listened to what women feel, and many times if there is such a calmness in the busy reception that the doctor sits quietly and says that good when you come, tell me what's going on or what's going on, then even then there are not one or two patients who have happened to have walked in and said that there is no other way than to have an abortion, but when you've been able to tell him in peace about the situation, for example, it turns out that he is being pressured into abortion, or, in fact, that he wants to have this child, but someone else is for a reason or another to twist his head in some other direction. I have been listening to women for over 20 years, and I hope that when we talk about them, the decisions that a woman makes are such decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u201	To the list of speakers. Then there's Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u202	Madam President! I will simply follow the procedure that was recommended to me when I wanted to exercise my say as a citizen and as a representative of Parliament. I was assigned here, and this is where I'm talking. There are a few things I want to tell you. I quote author Matti Mäkelä, he said this: "Momother Teresa said the Nobel Peace Prize after she received the abortion as the greatest threat to world peace." The statement was silenced almost to death because no stain was desired on the reputation of a sweet benefactor. Madam President! I do not read here what Mother Teresa herself said in her reception address to Nobel on December 11, 79, but I say that what she said affected my own conviction 35 years ago and it is still valid. I think it is very important that we have an ethical debate on these issues in Finland, including here. There is no right and wrong opinion here, there are two different opinions, and they should be respected. I think that this debate has gone rather civilly – this is a stimulating topic. I am sure I know quite a lot about this, too, because I have received hundreds of e-mails on this subject. But this is not about me, and it is not really about you;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u205	Madam President! The right to abortion has been granted to Finnish women for over 40 years now. Madam President! Over the years, abortion has saved the lives of many women. That is the most important task of health care: to help people in need. The right to refuse abortion on the basis of one’s own conviction is incompatible with this basic task. Abortion is not the only issue of health care that stirs. Refusal to have an abortion for reasons of abortion on a case-by-case basis could lead each doctor to determine for himself the criteria on which he or she is treating his patients. This is not ethical in any way. At worst, the situation could result in only wealthy women having the opportunity to go to a private doctor for an abortion. I hope you never have to go to this point. Madam President! Abortion must not be about money, abortion must not be about conviction, nor about reasons for pregnancy. Abortion must always be about the right of pregnant women to their own body and health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u206	Madam President! Abortion is always a heavy decision for both a young girl and an adult woman. It does not matter to any doctor or nurse. I myself, as a medical student, have been assisting in abortion and also caring for those who have undergone abortion after the procedure. In these situations, I think empathy and sympathy should be with this mother. It's his decision, and we have to respect it. I do not think that these measures should be overdramatised or mystified either. Every woman knows for herself when, with whom and how many children she wants to give birth to the world. This is a right that must be upheld and respected. We have examples from the world that, when this right does not exist, it leads to unwanted abortions in such a way that they are made under conditions that endanger the mother's future. This initiative now proposes that health care staff should be able to refuse this abortion. The problem arises as to who is investigating this conviction, where is the Commission that determines who has the conviction, the right, genuine conviction behind it. Could it be that a person’s community is forcing him to seek exemption from abortions, otherwise he would be stamped in that community? In Finland, abortions are minor, have been decreasing all the time and are also safe, and this is because we have a good prevention counselling system and we also have contraceptive tools available. Now we have been discussing the situation in Finland that this would be, to some extent, terribly difficult and problematic. The opinion of ETENE, the Advisory Committee on Ethics, also states that every workplace can agree on the subject matter and the way in which it works and that agreements between employer and employee can also narrow the job profile as desired by the employee, provided that all the tasks and measures required by the law are nevertheless properly carried out. This is, of course, the everyday way in which this matter is handled, and unlike Mr Soini, who has said here that this is something of a Pharisee. We have practices that work. Equal treatment of citizens requires that those in health care cannot, for their own moral reasons, refuse to provide adequate care. That is why I do not believe that this initiative should be translated into law. This issue will be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and will be properly brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u207	Madam President! The head would advise silence, but the heart won't let it. This is a question that a young man of my age, in particular, would certainly make more sense politically to remain silent, but we need to talk about it. Of course, abortion is an ethical issue for many health care workers, and it is a highly psychologically burdensome thing to do. A person will then be involved in making decisions even against his personal and deep convictions. I would ask honourable Members to remember that the right to refuse to end life for reasons of conviction does not apply to a situation in which a woman's life is in danger. Just as Minister Soini said, broadly quoting Mother Teresa, life is sacred, and that is why I personally support this citizens' initiative. A number of people here are concerned about the overall position of Finland in the European frame of reference: whether we are closer to Germany and France or whether we are closer to Macedonia. At the moment, freedom of conscience is realised in the first two, but Finland and Macedonia follow the same approach, which, in my view, is morally questionable, in which issues of conscience and human dignity are secondary. In almost all European countries, health workers have the right to rely on their convictions and refuse to take part in abortion. The citizens' initiative mentions Council of Europe Resolution 1763/2010. It explicitly calls on the Member States to amend their legislation in such a way as to safeguard freedom of conscience. Here Mr Hatainen has explained how there has been an accident at work in the Council of Europe. I would say quite frankly that there are no such accidents in politics. Whatever the result of the vote, the result is there and the result holds. I also believe that freedom of conscience is freedom of choice and the right of the worker to believe. Many here criticise various coercive measures. Well, this would be an opportunity to remove one of the imperatives, to highlight human dignity. The World Medical Association and the Finnish Medical Association support the objective of enabling staff to act in accordance with their ethical principles. Mr President! The discrimination has to stop. We cannot afford to lose any midwives on the grounds that the state is acting against their convictions. I myself am going to vote in favour of this initiative, if this initiative comes into this great Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u208	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We are once again dealing with one citizens' initiative, and there has also been some discussion here about the way in which these should be dealt with here. I personally wish that the way in which we are dealing with this issue would always be the same and that there would gradually be a way in which citizens' initiatives will be dealt with here. In my opinion, it must be an absolute requirement that citizens' initiatives should always be put to the vote in the big Chamber. It should be self-evident. This citizens' initiative has introduced a change in the law which would give health care staff the right to refuse, on the basis of ethical or religious convictions, to take part in a abortion measure and to make a statement leading to an interruption unless the life of a woman is in danger. I personally do not have a very strong view of this, and I hope that this is the reason why the committee is careful. But when I got to the point, it became clear that the associations of health professionals, the ethical guidelines of the unions and the Ethical Advisory Board for Social and Health Care are all clearly in line with the current law. During this parliamentary procedure, I believe it is necessary to find out whether the right of health care staff to refuse abortion can lead to a risk to the rights and even health of the patient. ETENE, the Ethical Advisory Board for Social Affairs and Health, has stated that if you could refuse abortion on a case-by-case basis, as suggested here, for example because of the reason for the termination of pregnancy, the patient would be put in an unreasonable position and practical problems would arise: for example, the refusal of the only available doctor to interrupt pregnancy on the basis of his or her conviction. I myself, listening to this debate, wondered whether this would be the reason or the basis for applying for this job. In my opinion, this is an essential question that needs to be clarified. So would it be that if there were now two in a unit who have already refused to take abortions, and one more is needed, could the application or the job report say that a person is now being sought who is willing to take all the measures that might arise? This should be raised in the discussion of this legislative initiative. Mr President! Finally, the Midwives' Association has also dealt with this issue and they say that workers who do not want to deal with abortions either do not apply for such jobs or have been able to reach agreement with their employer. So this is not a very big problem today, but I personally hope that the committee will do a thorough job here. I myself will look at that report and, according to it, make the final decision on voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u209	Madam Speaker! I would like to say that hospitals, for example, have gastric surgeons, i.e. those who treat stomach problems, orthopedics, those who treat hip, bone problems, and so on, and so on, and in all other areas, in that way, that is to say that there is already a sufficient number of patients who treat certain types of procedures in each hospital. As far as gynecologists are concerned today, none of the gynecologists handle all the gynecology measures. It is a very wide-ranging area, as is surgery and many other fields of medicine. In other words, it is considered that there are enough staff to carry out the various measures, even today, on the basis of the worktations. I wouldn't see that this is a problem of any kind. Like I said, I've been in the business for over 20 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u210	Madam President! With regard to the previous speech, I have to comment to the extent that it occurred to me that other medical professions may have such matters as this one which we do not necessarily want to take up, and perhaps it will be a case of applying for a different kind of doctor's duties. Abortion is already a difficult issue, and Finland’s abortion legislation is already rigorous in international comparisons. I do not think that there should be any difficulty in stopping a pregnancy, even though it has been mentioned here many times that this would not do so. I believe, however, that there is a climate in which there is a danger. There has been talk of geographical equality. I do not have the expertise to comment on it, but the doctors who have been sitting in the Chamber have also spoken in which there is concern at the moment. Today, speeches have been made in the Chamber about the fact that birth is sacred. The fact that convictions affect abortions is only acceptable to me when it comes to the conviction of the pregnant woman. We currently have extensive screening during pregnancy. The purpose of these screenings is to determine possible abnormalities in foetal development in order to ensure the health of the mother and the foetus. I'm sure everyone's waiting for the moms to wish everything was okay. At least my attachment to the unborn child was born to me during the waiting period. Sometimes, however, the fetus has a serious developmental disorder and may not even survive childbirth. In such a situation, the mother’s life is not in danger, yet it may be that the intention is to stop the pregnancy. As Mr Sirén has already pointed out here, in such a situation, parents need all the support they can get. This is exactly what the medical staff is supposed to do. Almost all health professional organisations state that the right of health care staff to refuse abortion could lead to a risk to the rights or even health of the patient. I am concerned about three things in this initiative: the first is that abortion becomes more difficult and more reprehensible, the second is an increase in regional inequality, and the third relates to education. In the future, it is important that all healthcare professionals are able to participate in abortions if necessary. This is one of the requirements of professional activity. If the initiative goes to Parliament for decision, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u211	Mr President! The citizens' initiative touches on one of the most far-reaching fundamental rights in the history of our ideas. The question of freedom of conscience is an old one. In the past few years, the issue of freedom of conscience has been the most prominent in the debate on religious education in the school. It was on the basis of Article 11 of the Constitution that the Basic Education Act and the High School Act were amended in the early millennium so that religious education no longer includes religious practice, because religion must always be voluntary. It is also a matter of safeguarding freedom of conscience when provision is made for the possibility of civil service. You can refuse military service for reasons of conscience. Since the 1980s, there has been a debate within the Lutheran Church about the right of officials, mainly priests, to refuse to cooperate with female priests for conscientious reasons. My experience is that the convictions of those who reject female priesthood are strong and strong and usually anchored in their religious convictions. Although this is the case, the church has not considered it right to employ persons who conscientiously refuse to perform certain duties approved by the church. The logical line is that the person receiving the post shall at the same time accept all the duties and responsibilities of the post. If conscience is not possible, it is the person’s best course of action to seek another kind of work and assignment. The difference between allowing civilian service and service is clear. As a matter of principle, all young men are subject to compulsory military service. That is why the need for individual protection requires special attention. On the other hand, taking up church office is not comparable to compulsory military service. Each person can consider which profession to study and find out what kind of job and job assignments usually come before him. If there is something there that does not fit in with conscience, then other occupations may be considered. I also think about this citizens' initiative: When considering the health profession, it is good for a person to familiarise himself with the work and the possible tasks of the specialisation sectors. Of course, the call to the health care profession for a nurse or a doctor is a very valuable, important matter. Strong vocation helps to cope with heavy and demanding work. But I do not believe that the calling can mean that a person is given a right to claim dispensation from certain duties in office or work. The Constitution provides that no one is obliged to engage in the practice of religion contrary to his conscience, but the Constitution does not provide that no one is obliged in his profession to carry out the duties which he considers to be contrary to his beliefs. It is a completely different matter that in the health sector working communities, organisations, can collectively take care of everyone's well-being and be flexible and supported if necessary. And I do not quite understand that this is some kind of Pharisee, that work is shared in a reasonable way so that everyone is able and the work is done. Mr President! Conscience is a valuable thing and a part of each person’s identity. It is important that no one applies for duties that are contrary to their convictions, but it is also important that employees are treated equally and that all legitimate and legitimate healthcare services are handled professionally without undue delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u212	Mr President! Thank you for the conversation. It's been interesting to go through this, it's good to get out of your own bubbles and meet other people. But, above all, my mind is also concerned about Mr Soin's response to me when he said that he would certainly also take his anti-abortion position abroad as Foreign Minister. However, Finland has traditionally promoted the sexual rights of girls in the UN, and I believe that this is an issue that should be discussed more widely and that within the government we should discuss whether this is the case. Of course, he is entitled to his own opinion, I am not saying that, but there is a difference between what is the Finnish line and what is the personal opinion of the Foreign Minister. As has been said many times today, in fact, contrary to what you might imagine from this initiative, Finland's current legislation on abortion is not particularly permissive, but very strict compared to other EU countries. In 22 EU countries, women can have abortion at their own request, only Finland and two other EU countries need a legal basis, and in Portugal, Luxembourg and Spain, Catholic countries, they have recently liberalized their legislation. In Spain, women literally went out on the street when it was a question of narrowing their rights as women. I believe that this is primarily a question of a woman's right to her own body. In practice, however, I believe that legislation has worked, and, in fact, there is surprisingly little pressure to change this law, even though I think it would be better in line with our view today if it were more liberal or more liberal than it is today. Practical examples of countries where refusal has been possible, as set out in this initiative, are, in my view, dissuasive and give cause for thinking that this could jeopardise access to these health services for women, taking into account, for example, the Finnish geography. We clearly disagree on this, and that is perhaps the basis, we have a different idea of where this is going. Freedom to act in accordance with one's own moral beliefs must be weighed against the rights of others, including women's reproductive rights. I believe that the lack of right of refusal in Finnish legislation is based on the aim of Finnish legislation to achieve equality and respect for individuals. It has a key impact on the availability of statutory health services for women. For example, I share the views expressed by the researchers themselves that such a right of refusal would increase the possibility of humiliation and I think that it is apparent as an attempt to refuse to take care of it. Of course, reducing the number of abortions is our common goal, but it cannot be done by undermining women's right to abortion or by reducing access to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u213	Madam President! As we have said several times, this citizens' initiative concerns health workers and those studying in the field. It does not affect the right of Finnish women to abortion and its availability. At the moment, the situation in Finland is that you can be a midwife without taking part in abortions. In fact, it is very common because in relation to the number of births, abortions during a long week are quite rare. A lot of people don't even come in touch with that stuff when they're in college. Thus, you can graduate as a midwife in Finland, and there are different situations in different hospitals as to whether collegiately you can settle the matter if you do not want to participate in abortion. There is a completely different situation when you graduate from gynaecology and obstetrics. In Finland, you cannot become a specialist in gynaecological diseases and childbirths without taking part in an abortion. Here, when I listened to these speeches, I would like to ask how many people have themselves been here and how many abortions have taken place. I'm the kind of person I've had to do abortions of all sizes in my time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u216	Madam President! I'm not really in the business of this midwife, and I'm not in the business of that kind of thing, but I know this woman who wrote me a letter. I'll read it right here: "In his early days, he studied in the field of midwifery, as The profession was diverse. The first thing people think is that it's baby care, but it's only part of the job. The midwife’s field of expertise includes the woman’s entire life cycle from birth to death. The midwife is also a nurse, and many work as a nurse, especially if the midwife’s places are not available. The sad part of the job is abortions. That's what I've had to do a lot of in the department of gynaecology. They are often medically treated, and they are carried out by the midwife according to the doctor’s instructions. The duration of pregnancy determines the size of the fetus, but the often born fetus looks like a small baby: small fingers, toes, eyebrows are visible. After delivery, the midwife checks and measures the inanimate fetus and puts it in a bowl of arcs, or cardboard vomit, which is given to the sick person in the hospital. Another arc bowl on top, taped, and in a garbage bag. That's where the janitor takes it to any further investigation or to be disposed of. Of course, abortions observe and treat a woman as long as the mission is safely completed. In a cold flush room, feelings always surfaced when handling the fetus. I am not particularly religious, but in my mind I always blessed the journey of a small, cold creature, and I was sorry that this had happened. I felt like a executioner, for by my action I took life. This is a taboo subject. Midwives do their work without a hitch, and some suffer more than others. Thus, your attitude to abortions is not visible while the patient is being treated, and under no circumstances should it be visible. Everyone has to be treated beautifully and empatheticly, and then think about anything. In Finland, a woman can decide on such matters. A little start-up life has no place to say. A midwife must take part in the life - ending activity if the mother has decided not to continue to become pregnant. Many people think that this is a question of choice of profession. Yes, it is, but I naively thought when I applied for a profession that my work was to sustain and promote life and health. Fortunately, the job is also to familiarise myself specifically with the sexual education of young people in order to avoid abortions at all, for example. Today it is easy and there are plenty of options. It should be noted, however, that it is not always a young person, but I have met in my 40s, who are repeatedly going to end their pregnancy at a hospital where big fetuses are born." Mr President, can I finish reading? "I've had a lot of sleepless nights and I applied for another job. I believe that midwives and other staff should be given the right to refuse abortions, because great professionalism can be wasted if you have to avoid the work of a midwife because of this issue." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u217	Madam President! I am pleased that Mr Hakkarainen brought this living example to this Chamber, because I think that letter did very well describe what this is ultimately about when it comes to the right to belief and freedom of conscience. The debate in this Chamber shows that there are simply different convictions here. Some see abortion as merely a woman’s right to her own body, others see abortion as the end of the life of a human being who has already begun. This same division is also in the midst of the health workforce there. There are views emerging from different convictions in relation to abortion. I think this should be acknowledged. It is also important for patients that there are these different beliefs among gynecologists and doctors and midwives in relation to the life of this unborn child. There have been questions about why people here are talking about ending life or why Mr Laukkanen used the word "killing". In my opinion, it is justified that we have doctors and nurses who think that a person's life begins with conception and abortion means ending the life of an unborn child and that this protection is therefore needed. Well, then, how do we determine conviction? The doctors and nurses who would resort to this provision and legislation would certainly themselves bring it up and appeal to it. When I first graduated as a doctor, when I applied for a job at a health centre or hospital, I took it at the time when I applied for a job, that I have a conviction that I do not intend to participate in abortion and that I cannot write a statement recommending an abortion. That conviction was respected. I did not have any difficulties in getting a job or in these arrangements, but I know again the doctors and midwives and nurses who have had these difficulties. I believe that this is also a question of equality between health workers, that everyone has the same right to the protection of their convictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u218	Mr President! Finnish abortion legislation is currently quite strict and detailed. Finnish abortion rates are still the lowest in the Nordic countries. On the basis of the reports received by the STM, there is no reason to change the weekly limits for abortions or the right of healthcare staff to refuse duties. Instead, it is essential to provide adequate contraception in our education system. I highly value people who do nursing or social work. In both professions, people are faced with situations that test their own tolerance and ethics. These professions often have to listen to the person seeking help, more than to his own needs. The genuine acceptance of one person requires that you know how to put yourself in the background and the needs of the other at the centre. In practice, refusing abortions would lead to a situation in hospitals where part of the staff would be released from abortion and some would not. This cannot be the case. Abortion cannot be a matter of medical staff but of the right of every woman to her own body and the right to impartial help. People working in health and social work sometimes face situations where their own ethical view may conflict with a treatment event. These are issues that every person who is trained in the field will have to think about. These are also things that I myself have had to consider during my studies. When choosing a profession, you have to make it clear with yourself what you are prepared to do in your work. This is also the right of every customer and patient, as few of us would like to work reluctantly. Then, if someone working in this field later finds himself in a situation where he sees that his own values have changed, there are alternatives to resolving the issue other than the right of the citizens' initiative to refuse. There are many reasons for reorganising work in the workplace. In such a situation, however, the atmosphere of the working community would inevitably be affected by the fact that one person, even if silently, would be moralising others to do abortion work. Instead of working arrangements, I think that attention should be paid to applying for a different type of job. There is also a great deal of work done by gynaecologists and nurses in the private sector and in open receptions where abortions are not performed. Changing jobs can help everyone to have their own personal ethical conflict. Finding alternatives together with the patient should not be confused with the right of medical personnel to refuse abortion. You can look for alternatives. However, the medical staff should be a co-driver, for no one can and must make a decision on behalf of a woman on abortion. No one else will bear the consequences of the decision for the rest of their life, whether it be abortion or continued pregnancy. Now, however, this initiative seems to be trying to achieve something quite different: through medical staff, we are now trying to create an atmosphere in which abortion is made a disgrace and taboo.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u219	Mr President! "Almost everyone of the women who walk with me in the prison yard is a giant source of wild boar, Among them are beautiful young girls, even educated ones, though less often, for they either get paroled or do not get caught. Only poor women are caught who are forced to turn to uncivilised quacks and who then become ill and who are forced to go to a hospital where they are immediately exposed and, in the worst case, even on the deathbed, the police are blackmailing the information. The wealthier pay thousands of well-known doctors and midwives and do not get caught." So writes Hella Wuolijoki in her diary from prison. I took that quote because there has also been a lot of talk here today about the right to abortion, and I am not quite sure that everyone will remember, which is why we have in due course the abortion law that we currently have. Before it was adjusted, even in the late 1960s — not to mention those days that Hella writes about — we had tens of thousands of illegal abortions every year. A significant proportion of these abortions led to serious health problems, even deaths, and it is quite clear that women's lives in that society were significantly affected by the law. As far as I am concerned, two arguments were put forward in favour of the right to abortion: the first of them, referring to the previous one, is the spirit and health of a woman. We know from the studies that abortions are carried out in society at roughly the same rate, whether illegal or legal, regardless of the strain of the legislation on abortions in the country. But if abortion laws are permissive, liberal, then the various health and social problems that result from these will be considerably less. Another reason why much of the current abortion legislation was adopted in Finland in 1970 is the argument that goes well with the opponent of abortion. In an international comparison, it seems that the best combination to reduce abortions is effective sex education, well-available contraception and free abortion rights. Mr President! The time clock is already red, but since it is only a question of speaking in the Chamber, I would still like to read you one more quote. This is about the debate that took place in the Chamber in 1970 on Friday the 13th. "If the law is adopted in the form proposed by the Economic It also gives rights to the most deprived and peripheral women. Today’s law is a class law: those in the upper class and in a socially well-off position have the possibility of a harmless abortion, while the poorer person falls into the hands of the quack or is usually subjected to adverse circumstances, usually with a heavy feeling of guilt. Legal reform also means that many women avoid unnecessary depressions and desperate attempts to leave the fetus. Suicides, suicide attempts and many forced marriages leading to divorce will also be avoided." So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what the doctor and MP P. Räsänen wrote in 1970, and he predicted well, didn't he?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u220	Mr President! The essential question here is whether this legislative amendment under the initiative would weaken access to abortion, and I would argue that this would certainly be the case. In countries where freedom of conscience is in place, it has been found that access to abortion has become more difficult. In Italy, for example, 70% of gynecologists have refused an abortion measure, and in Austria, some regions have difficulties in getting abortion at all. According to the WHO, the refusal of the measure by a professional must not jeopardise the availability of these health services, and we live in Finland, which is a country of long distances. For different reasons, for probable reasons of conviction, there would be more doctors and nurses who refuse an abortion measure than on average, especially in Northern Ostrobothnia, Lapland, Western Ostrobothnia and Kainuu, and if a legal amendment were introduced, it could lead to women seeking abortion being unequal depending on their place of residence. When applying for an abortion, speed is an asset, and delays in the service are not acceptable. At worst, this proposed legislative amendment could mean that abortion would depend on the place of residence or that abortions would take place at a later stage than now. It's like an army here, but I don't think we can make this comparison. All men must enter the army, but no one is obliged to apply to an area in which abortions are performed. So military service is binding on all men, but there is no obligation to seek in the field in which abortions are performed. Another big question is how to define conviction, which conviction is acceptable, and it cannot be said that Christian conviction or any other ethical conviction is acceptable. In practice, it would lead to the conclusion that simply stating that, for reasons of conviction, I cannot do so would be enough, and could lead to a large part of the medical staff refusing, because no one likes this measure, and then these undesirable tasks will accumulate for certain people and the availability will be reduced. I want to finish by reminding you that: The Midwives' Association is opposed to this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u221	Mr President! It is important that this citizens' initiative is here in the debate, and I think that the debate is mainly relevant and makes it very clear, as Mr Räsänen has said, for example, that there are different convictions and that this issue is being assessed on a somewhat different basis. I'm glad we're having a conversation. Personally, although I have never had an abortion, and of course I have not had an abortion, I nevertheless consider myself to have some kind of expertise. In my circle of acquaintances, I know a lot of gynecologists and have followed the study of gynecology and the preparation of gynecologists and the work they have to do to the full extent. The letter that Mr Hakkarainen read did not give me any information about what is at stake in all of his everyday life. Mr Tanus, you have used many good speeches to describe the spirit and the depth of ethical reflection that is taking place there when these decisions and measures are taken. I think a little that it would not be a bad thing in its own way if these people, who have this profound ethical analytical ability, who reflect deeply on the whole of human life and death and ending life, were to completely leave the working community where they then have to do these bad jobs. I sometimes remember the debate that if we had voluntary military service — I am returning to this military service — there would be a risk that those who prefer to hold a gun for military service would be, as it were, war maniacs. Well, if it applies to this question, is it not better for you to be there and to reflect and bring into that discussion with all that heavy burden also these views? I wouldn't think it's too good to pick the people who do these heavy jobs there, like dirty work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u223	Madam President! That is precisely why this citizens' initiative has been taken. The right to abortion is defended here and, as I repeat, women in Finland have the right to abortion. I would like women in Finland to have the right and the opportunity to graduate, as in other European countries. I would say that the World Medical Association supports this, the International Gynecologist Association supports this, the International Midwives Association supports this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u226	Madam President! This midwives job — I don't know about the whole thing. I understand that I have not had or probably will have labor pains, so much do I know. But this woman’s letter she sent somehow touched because she had studied the profession and couldn’t bear the sleepless nights that the profession brought — yet thought she was studying for a profession that is life-building and interesting. But reality woke him up, and he had to change professions. There's this side. And then there's this crowd, who's all over the place, and they're all so foamy about it. Take, for example, that a Muslim woman would become a midwife and would have to have this abortion and refuse it because of her conviction. I'm sure those people would come to defend this woman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u229	Madam President! I have already used my own speech on the substance of the citizens' initiative and, as I pointed out, I hope that the committee will carry out its work thoroughly and go through the various concerns raised here, such as the problem of seeking a job or, for example, if the conviction changes later and so forth. In fact, what has been reduced today has been this general discussion of citizens' initiatives in Parliament. After all, we are now in a position to have the first citizens' initiative adopted in a moment. In fact, in this debate I would also like to raise the question of whether, after some time, this functioning of citizens' initiatives should also be examined whether we are in a situation where we can have a number of citizens' initiatives on the same subject even during the same parliamentary term. I myself have proposed a model for considering which citizens' initiative could also have the possibility of non-signature. In this way, of course, we would know how much support the citizens' initiative has, but also whether it has a great deal of opposition. This is often the type of citizens' initiatives that they share quite strongly. This is perhaps the basis for the debate that we will continue to have around the citizens' initiatives in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u230	Mr President! Some speakers have pointed out that this debate affects many people very badly, perhaps even in this Chamber. Indeed, the subject affects a much wider group than we often think, because abortion is a rather silent subject. There is little courage to discuss it, but since the adoption of the abortion law, more than half a million abortions have taken place in Finland. Currently, approximately 10,000 pregnancies per year are interrupted, i.e. on average 30 days. There are hundreds of thousands of women in our midst who have had abortions in their own bodies, the same number of fathers of these children and tens of thousands of health professionals involved in abortions, so there is really no marginal issue. Mr President! After quoting the old parliamentary minutes and also the letters that have been received, I would like to read a letter which a midwife has specifically wanted to bring to the attention of the Members of Parliament. I want this message to remain in Parliament's archives as well. This letter was written by a midwife who once graduated from her dream profession but has no longer been able to continue in her work where she felt she had to go against her beliefs. Here is a quote from this letter: "I had a divided patient who was due to have a late The weeks of pregnancy had already been nearly 23. Since there were already so many weeks of pregnancy, the fetus had to be given birth. The birth was started with tablets placed in the vagina. It was very difficult for me to put down the tablets, for my conscience is at odds with putting an end to life. I was hoping the baby wouldn't be born on my own shift because I didn't want to see the consequences of what I did. That's not what happened, the baby was born on my shift, and to the horror of everyone alive. He let out his first cry and he was baffling his arms and legs. I went to the pediatrician in the next room to ask what we are doing, to revive the baby when he is alive and fighting for his life. Nothing was done because it was a late abortion. So we were just waiting for the life signs to fade. It happened after about ten long minutes. I went to the office and cried. I told my coworkers what had happened. I said that I had killed a person with my own hands, and I would never come back to do it again. My coworkers comforted me and told me it wasn't your choice. It was a woman's choice. I went to the office of a work psychologist to dismantle the event on several occasions. He noted that my mental health had been compromised when I had to act against my conviction. Our legislation gives a woman the freedom to make a decision based on her own values and philosophy as to whether she will continue to become pregnant or whether she will end up having an abortion. Many would feel unjust if a woman were forced into either decision. However, the medical staff is in a situation where they can be forced to participate with their own hands in activities that are a tangible act against their convictions in life and death. While participation in abortions is certainly burdensome for all personnel, there are many who want to participate in it. It does not war against their conscience, and they see the justification for choosing a woman. There are many of us, and I myself want to respect freedom of choice. I also hope that my freedom of conscience will be respected. I could still see myself as a midwife, for example, in an early interaction, baby care and nursing — but since I am not capable of abortions and the law does not guarantee me freedom of conscience at the moment, I cannot do the midwife’s work.” Madam President! This midwife still appealed to all of us in Parliament that we could and would like to promote freedom of conscience here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u231	Madam President! I wanted to take the floor again to underline that I wish that we could have freedom of choice, freedom of choice for all women and girls in Finland, without discrimination, without discrimination. Empathetic and hasty encounters are central to the patient. If you look at women who are unexpectedly pregnant, who are in a difficult situation in life, that is particularly important. I would like to be emphasizing that no one is to be judged or discriminated against, not to look at something along the nose, and, in fact, a high professional moral of a doctor also means that every patient is confronted as a unique individual who really has his own freedom of choice and also the freedom to decide on whether to continue and end pregnancy in Finland. I myself think, for over twenty years as a doctor, whether any of my patients knew my beliefs or my attitude to abortion before this citizens' initiative came up. I faced every patient — including those who were unexpectedly pregnant, who thought about continuing their pregnancy or sometimes adopting an adoption option, which is good to mention, and ending their pregnancy — so that the matter was largely dealt with so that the patient himself could tell us what the situation is, which is why he is going where he is going and so on. And my starting point is that no matter what she decides, it is good to go through the options: continuing pregnancy, ending pregnancy, what it means, and also adopting. And after this first visit — I think it would be good for it to be such a sobering visit — I asked that if they considered the matter, their decision, a few more days, because there are a lot of studies that when a decision has been made calmly, prudently, clearly, no matter what the woman's own decision is, she will be able and will be able to cope with it much better in the future. I would think that abortion is a difficult thing for women, no matter what the situation. It would be good if such women were to face more and more of those health professionals who, I would say, have a large, sensitive heart. We are prepared to walk alongside and take the burdens of women in a difficult situation in life, and my wish would be that health professionals — especially when meeting those in such a difficult situation — could share and take from a girl or woman the trouble of life, pregnancy on their own shoulders, so that when a woman or a girl leaves the reception, one might think more clearly about what she comes to do with her life and with her decisions. I thank you for a good debate. I have been amazed, surprised that where the right to abortion in Finland is and will remain and be, many wonder whether Finnish women will be given the opportunity to study and graduate. I would like to see the views in this respect expanded and we would make it possible for this profession to be completed in Finland as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u232	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u233	Madam President! The Government proposal 15 is now under discussion, which is correcting the 2010 Act on aid for the production of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. This law is being amended because these applications for wind power have become so numerous that the ceiling of 2500 MW which was then set at the amount of aid for them in that law is well above and would cost the State enormously. It must be remembered that when this law was adopted in 2010, a nuclear solution was decided on in the same context, the use of energy wood, energy efficiency and finally this wind power subsidy now under discussion. The committee consulted experts, seven experts were consulted in total, plus one opinion received in writing. The committee notes that, although this law is now being amended — and from the point of view of the State, it is precisely so that we do not have to impose excessive compensation or unreasonable aid decisions when there are actually more applications than the 2,500 megawatts of power — that this amendment of the law, the government's proposal and this report, will safeguard this original idea of support for renewable energy in the case of wind power. At the same time, however, this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the proposal for a legislative amendment limit the costs of the high popularity of the system for the state — there were very many applications — and yet this bill also ensures that the objective of renewable energy in Finland is achieved in accordance with the objectives that the European Union has imposed on us and what we ourselves have set ourselves as objectives. However, the committee attaches great importance to the offshore wind project, which is planned for that coast of Finland, and now excludes it from the legislative amendment. It is a very valuable information-gathering wind power project that has already received some investment support. Despite the limitations of this support, this offshore wind project will now be completed and valuable information will be collected on how to build wind power in the future in marine conditions. That information is really needed in Finland, because we never know what the situation is in ten years' time, for example. Given that we are in this situation at the moment, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had to take these issues into account in its report, after a very long, well-considered consultation of experts, it is important that we gather information about the offshore wind project for the future. After all, the problem was caused by this very high rate of application when the price of electricity fell on the market and a situation arose in which these investment and production subsidies went so high that it was considered too expensive for electricity for this country, and this moderation is now being achieved with this new legislative proposal. Finally, Madam President, I would like to point out that it is worth remembering, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy discussed this matter for a long time, that although this system of subsidies for the production of renewable energy, wind power now ceases, according to this draft law, so that the last applications will come in 2017 — that is the deadline by which these applications were to be submitted, which is, after all, far too much now — that production aid itself will end in 2030, according to this draft law. However, now that this precise deadline has been reached, this report before us does not in any way rule out the possibility that these investment subsidies will not be possible and that production aid will continue to be paid. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that special attention will be paid to the realisation of market economy and technological neutrality in future systems, because it must be borne in mind that these conditions for energy production will certainly change very quickly in the coming years and that they must be able to react to them. In other words, let us not make legislation that would cost Finland a huge amount of money, and then, if we possibly get cheaper energy from something, we ourselves will not be producing unnecessarily expensive energy and increasing the various production costs and, above all, the cost of people's housing. Madam President! Finally, the committee dealt with this draft law very carefully and came to the conclusion of this report, which, in my opinion, is good and balanced in view of Finland's increased production costs and given the current electricity price and also the fact that, in the future, wind power will receive some kind of support. But it will be back in time when a new climate strategy begins to be planned in this house, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u234	Mr President! On the other hand, this current feed-in tariff, which has been in force for a few years, has contributed to the construction of wind power in Finland and has developed wind power technology very much, but on the other hand, its problem is that it has been overcompensating and excessive profits for these wind power companies and not very cost-effective in that sense, so it is justified that this old system should be closed down. But it is also important that a new renewable energy support system is built as soon as possible, so that the investment environment remains predictable and that wind power construction in Finland continues in the future, as well as the support system for other renewable energies. It would therefore be justified for this new renewable energy support system to be a technology-neutral competitive tendering system capable of cost-effectively and ex ante costing... Or it would be possible to ensure, through competitive tendering, that there will be no unexpected costs, and then, on the other hand, as much renewable energy support as possible. Renewable energy... “It’s so late in the night that they’re going to go crazy already. — — — — But, indeed, I think it is important that this new support system should be prepared as quickly as possible, and it would be justified that it should enter into force by 2017 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u235	Madam President! Just a little bit more wind power. The previous governments made decisions that now need to be reversed and rushed. I am in favour of cutting wind power subsidies. From the outset, we should not have created a system in which taxpayers support unprofitable wind power production and foreign investors and wind power companies catch money in their wallets. All that money is out of society’s most important tasks. The State has promised a guaranteed price of EUR 105.3 per megawatt hour for wind electricity, i.e. the State pays the guaranteed price and the difference between the price of quoted electricity for electricity producers. The price of exchange electricity is about 30 euros per megawatt hour. The difference paid by the State is therefore EUR 75 per megawatt hour. In a month, on average, EUR 15 million will be spent on supporting wind power. The more wind you get, the more money you spend. According to the wind damage website, the amount by which taxpayers supported this unprofitable activity yesterday was close to EUR 40000 and last week amounted to EUR 4.5 million. What's the point of this? The cost of the feed tariff will be billion-dollar for Finnish taxpayers. The state budget is in deficit and unfortunately will continue to be, i.e. wind power will be supported by debt money. Should the government still be in debt because of wind power? No, you don't. Madam President! Last March, we in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy submitted an objection to the Government's proposal that Continental Finland contribute to the cost of feed-in tariffs for wind power plants built in the province of Åland. We said that if the province of Åland wants to support its own wind power production with a feed-in tariff, it is entitled to do so. However, the aid must be paid from the county's own resources, not from the state budget, and it is not acceptable to circumvent this principle by any special arrangements. The electricity network in Åland is not connected to Finland but to the regional network owned by Vattenfall in Sweden. The additional production of electricity in Åland reduces the price of Swedish electricity users and promotes the competitiveness of Swedish industry. The payer of the aid, i.e. the Finnish taxpayer, does not even benefit from the aid he has paid. The current system of FITs for wind power would be new, as over EUR 300 million will be spent on feed-in tariffs on an annual basis in 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u236	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u237	Madam President! In short, only this proposal from the government and the report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The committee is unanimous in stating that this amendment to this Securities Market Act under the Directive only means greater transparency. While this is, of course, the removal of this obligation to report quarterly reports, this transparency of the company's position will be increased and the aim will therefore be to make it easier for shareholders to obtain information about the company, thus making this transparency a reality. It is true that the directives and their implementation in the future will have a lot of difficulties — not only after the completion of this law, but also in the future — because this opening up of the stock market and the movement of capital across borders and also throughout the world is so fast that it will require real flexibility and close monitoring from national legislation so that we can combat, for example, some form of informal economy, and that we can, with an open and transparent system, verify these types of stock market investments and the ability of the citizen to buy shares. It is a very free trade, and it also guarantees the right not to be deceived.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u238	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-08-ps-47.u239	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 9 October 2015.
