ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u1	The third item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Commission of the Office. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u3	Mr President! It is a positive thing that an agreement has been reached with Vietnam on air transport, but in this context I would like to remind you of an important issue that is not agreed with Vietnam. It is a question of Vietnam accepting its own citizens, who will have to be expelled from Finland. The reason for raising this issue is the well-known case of a Vietnamese professional criminal shooting a gun at a nightclub in Helsinki, wounding people and causing danger to many. When the matter was discussed in public, it turned out that the person concerned had committed several crimes in Finland, but his return to Vietnam had not been successful because Vietnam refused to accept his own citizen. In other words, when there are various negotiations and cooperation with Vietnam and when hundreds of millions of euros have been allocated to development cooperation, I think it is important that, in the appropriate context of our country's new vigorous foreign minister, I should like to say that this is an issue that I have mentioned, and that is a situation in which Vietnam agrees to receive its own citizens, who will have to be expelled from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u4	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u5	Mr President! As we know and will hear tomorrow, too much regulation and bureaucracy have weakened our competitive position, and even in the government's programme, the dismantling of standards is one way of solving the slowness of our society and responding to our progress more quickly. For the same reason, it is of paramount importance to consider the Statute on the Civil Service Act and the Office of Parliament because, according to Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, it is the duty of the Parliamentary Office to create the capacity for Parliament to carry out its functions as a governmental body. Therefore, in this referral debate, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the dismantling of the standards I mentioned above will also be taken into account in these changes, when the matter is going to be discussed in more detail in the committees, and in any legislative proposal, the dismantling of the standards would continue to be considered as a specific issue in addition to the draft law, as is the case in many municipalities when decisions are taken, or at least should be carried out. In this respect, the monitoring of the committees is a matter for the Members of Parliament, and I would take this matter into account in committee and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u6	Mr President! There are two points here: one concerns the Civil Service Act of Parliament, and the other concerns the Statute of the Parliamentary Office. Both have been in preparation during the last period and have been very carefully prepared with the experts and also with the opinion of the constitutional experts. In my speech, I will intervene in the Statute of the Parliamentary Office. After all, we have a rather rigid way of regulating the internal organisation of Parliament, which is that decisions must be made in the Statute by the whole of Parliament. It may be that the representative: Mr Mölsä referred to this in his own speech. This rigidity can rightly be criticized. Indeed, if the decision-making of the organization, how the work is organised, requires a decision of 200 people, then it is a pretty big decision, and not all things can be brought to this Chamber many times. However, the preparation highlighted the view that, in relation to the nature of parliamentary work, it is important that these matters of parliamentary organisation are resolved transparently, with full publicity and also with the involvement of the whole Parliament as compared to the option of a rather small seven-person office committee making decisions. In this context, however, when this old practice is now in force, based on our legislation that these decisions are taken here, it is worth pointing out that the development of the parliamentary organisation must be of a continuous nature. Over the last few years, we have achieved a very moderate trend in expenditure. In nominal terms, the expenditure of Parliament has increased by only 1.8 per cent over the seven years, and this has been the result of the development of parliamentary work. However, the organisation will become certain restrictions on the change and transfer of people's tasks, so I would stress the importance of this flexibility, together with the fact that decision-making in its current form is taking place here in the Chamber, and I hope that this flexibility and cutting red tape in this respect could also progress in the development of the organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-23-ps-23.u7	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 24 June 2015.
