ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-16-ps-52.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto and 48 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government on the impact of Government decisions on pensioners. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-16-ps-52.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee, TrVM 4/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-16-ps-52.u3	Mr President! In recent years, the tasks of the Audit Office have been significantly expanded since the Agency was transferred to Parliament and its role as independent supervisor has been strengthened. One of these new tasks is to monitor the funding of parties and the use of state aid. This was adopted in 2009 in connection with the renewal of the Party Finance Act. The parties are not only supervised by the National Audit Office but also, of course, by the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the own auditors of the parties, their local communities and party organisations. It is the responsibility of the National Audit Office to specifically monitor public support within the meaning of the Party Act and, in addition to this, to monitor compliance with the provisions on the specification of expenditure and financing of election campaigns, their proper reporting, the drawing up and transmission of documents. The Agency’s supervisory tasks include not only central parties themselves but also other parties’ organisations, in so far as they are eligible for support by means of a grant decision, and also neighbouring communities within the meaning of the Party Law. A total of 145 control agencies have to be supervised. In addition to this, of course, there are many other parties in the party organisation, above all the local activities of the parties. This local activity does not fall under the control of the Inspectorate in so far as the grant referred to in the Party Law has not been allocated to it by decision. Of course, there are a lot of these organisations outside, as civil activity should be: about six thousand. Of these organisations under control, that is to say 145, the Agency has reviewed 32 bodies last year. The Agency has a systematic programme here under which it goes through these persons under inspection every year so that, within six years, everyone who has received the grant will be checked. The overall conclusion of this review is that the parties have acted essentially in accordance with party funding legislation. The declarations have been made in accordance with the provisions of the Party Act. The aid received by the Communities has also been substantially correctly declared and the audit has not identified any material aid payments contrary to party law. It is therefore appropriate to say that, after a long, stormy public debate, the amendments to the Party Act of 2009 have worked as intended: they have brought transparency and clarity to the activities of the parties — not only in terms of the use of party support but also in terms of the visibility of this external funding. The accounts have also been reviewed in this audit and have also been found to be appropriate for the parties and their organisations subject to the audit. A total of EUR 2.8 million has been reported in the electronic register last year and is slightly higher, approximately EUR 400000 higher than the situation in 2013. There have also been comments, as always under supervision. They relate, among other things, to the timeliness of the accounts, and this applies above all to these small players in party district organisations, and there have also been comments on the Accounting Act on the treatment of membership fees and cash funds. The Audit Committee considers it important that the shortcomings identified are properly addressed. The audit has shown that there are also many situations which are open to interpretation: how are the different types of expenditure recorded, and not least, which are financed by party law and what is financed through this communication aid? This problem has also been addressed by party experts during the hearing by the Audit Committee. It is not in the interests of the Inspectorate, nor of the inspectors, nor of the parties and the free civil service, that there is such a margin of interpretation, which is being clarified afterwards. Of course, these do not make any difference to the extent that there are irregularities, but above all it would be good to have clarity on how the expenditure item is to be recorded. From this point of view, there is a need to develop existing provisions in order not to use unnecessary time to reflect on non-essentialities. It is known that the Government is in the process of responding to the Parliament's statement in February 2014, which required the Government to take action and investigate the need for reform of electoral and party funding legislation. After all, a number of problems have been listed in the previous reading. On this basis, the work of the working group has been completed, and it is expected that the government will shortly be coming forward with proposals to amend both the party law and the candidate's electoral funding law. The Audit Committee has considered that, when the government is reforming the legislation, no new positions are needed from the Audit Committee or Parliament in this respect, but that these earlier positions are expected to be taken into account in the Government's legislative proposal. In its proposal for a decision, the Audit Committee proposes to Parliament that Parliament should have no objections to the Agency's report, and the committee's report was unanimous.
