ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u1	For the purpose of presenting the interim question, item 2 of the order of business is presented. Representatives Taimela and 58 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government on the impact of the Government's transport policy objectives on citizens and regional accessibility. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u3	Mr President! The purpose of the present Government proposal is to promote the reasonableness of housing costs in the housing stock supported by the state. Most of the content of the proposal is based on direct government programme records. Rents and operating charges for state-subsidised rental and right-of-occupancy dwellings, i.e. so-called Ara dwellings, must be determined in accordance with the cost-cost principle. According to it, rents and operating charges charged to residents may mainly cover the capital costs incurred in building the house, as well as the maintenance and repair costs of the property. In the vast majority of Ara apartments, rents and operating charges are at a reasonable level, clearly lower than rentals of non-subsidised dwellings. However, there are different ways of applying the rules on the cost-benefit principle, which in some cases has led to significant differences in the rent levels of Ara-houses owned by operators. The Government's proposal now clarifies the provisions on the cost-benefit principle and eliminates the current differences in the rental levels of Ara housing owned by different housing companies, lowers the significantly high rents in some locations, and curbs the increase in housing costs and improves the control of self-cost rents. The main points of the proposal are: to limit the preparation of future renovations in rentals and operating expenses for residents to a reasonable amount. This reasonable amount is to be specified in the regulation at between EUR 1 and 2 per square metre per month. Further, limit the compensation of rents between normal and special-purpose dwellings. Reduce the interest to be paid on the owner's own contribution in the case of cost rents from the current 8% return rate to 4%. An obligation is imposed on owners of rental houses to tender for the substantial real estate management services and maintenance work they have acquired and to draw up ex post calculations of these. These measures serve the best interests of the tenants of the rental houses, while curbing the rise in rents. This government proposal took place in a consultation in August-September. On the basis of the feedback from the opinion, a lot of people seemed to be in favour of the objectives, but there were differences of approach. Many private housing companies objected to these amendments, such as some municipalities. Instead, the residents supported the proposals but considered them to be mild in some places, that is, they would have liked even stronger restrictions. On the basis of the feedback, a change was made to the Government’s proposal that the ban on the equalisation of rents and operating charges across the county borders was abolished. This action was taken because, if the ban were in place on rents and operating charges across the county borders, the benefits would be minimal, but the disadvantages for many of the areas of low housing demand would be very high. That's why they gave up this spot. But, Mr President, this proposal brings about the possibility of affordable housing in these apartments and lowers the pressure on rent increases, which has long been the objective of many governments. Now it's happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u4	Madam President! The government has done a good job. When government negotiations were conducted, they are now being launched: red tape is being reduced and the cost of living in government-funded housing is actually being calculated. After all, it has been strange — we know a lot of people who live in Ara apartments for more money than they pay for privately funded apartments. There have been practices that do not really stand the light of day, but because they have been legal, they have been made. I think it is a good thing that repair costs cannot be oversized, that interest income cannot be made impossible and, for example, that there is no wrong balance between rents for ordinary and special groups. It is also self-evident that competitive tendering should be a normal day in all renovations. This is what we do in private ownership. Although I do not live in the Ara apartment here at the end of Helsinki, I must say that I too have left my mouth open when I noticed a little after how these renovations often work in housing companies. They are simply given to someone, and the price level can be up to three-minute, four-time, five-fold compared to the normal price level. What do you think the usual renovation of the sauna cost me in my own housing company? Over 70,000. In my own country, such a renovation would be about EUR 10,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u5	Mr President! It is true that the worst stumbling block in our housing policy is that where there is a need for housing, there is no affordable housing available. In other words, the need is precisely to increase affordable housing production. To some extent, at least at the target level, this proposal is looking at this. Whether this will succeed or whether it will only result in weaker provisions for annual and renovations remains to be seen. In principle, it is good to clarify the principle of cost-effectiveness. Here, too, it can be said that this view of the inhabitants is certainly the right one — in the right direction but inadequate — because, after all, we have a deeper problem of affordable housing. It is a question of how we can increase the number of dwellings, especially in the capital region and elsewhere in the growth centres. The government spending limits budget, no more than the budget for the coming year, does not promise good results. The interest rate on government interest subsidies will be increased from the current 1% to 3.4%. This is much more important in determining rents than in the present bill. There is already a large shortage of affordable rental housing, and the problem is only getting worse as a result of increased immigration, among other things. A specific programme of measures would therefore be needed to develop Ara's ability to act as an engine for affordable housing. Housing construction and related renovation should be seen as an investment, not an expense item. Increasing unemployment could also be curbed by speeding up construction. We know that one employee's contribution to the construction site increases the multiplier effects of several employees in services and transport. This operational programme should also include good cooperation between the state and municipalities. The well-started MAL agreements must also be continued outside the capital region, and the Committee on the Environment has unanimously stated that this really should be done. Transport and housing must be linked more closely through these agreements. Landed plots of land must be found along good transport connections, especially for the construction of affordable housing. The state carrot towards the municipalities is the construction of transport routes. Special efforts are needed in rail transport. After all, the previous government has already done a good job here. These plans should now be dug up. So, as I have already said, with regard to the transport infrastructure, with regard to housing construction and with regard to residential areas and renovations, the question is about investment, not the expense, and this would be extremely appropriate to this employment situation. At the same time, this extremely difficult housing situation could be resolved, especially in growth centres. It must also be remembered that in the long term the price of living in Finland will not be lowered unless we have enough housing so that we do not talk about scarcity. And this scarcity is particularly mentioned where jobs are created. This also means that we will not be able to meet the needs of growth when bottlenecks arise in those municipalities where housing prices are high and there is no such affordable housing. In this connection, I would like to raise one further point which does not come before Parliament but which relates to the attempt to increase affordable housing for low-income earners, or to the imagined aim. This is a proposal for a regulation to restore the adjustment of income limits to Ara dwellings. This show has got a total knock-out from the county. It would only increase bureaucracy. It has nothing to do with more housing. This is also in conflict with the government's leading project to reduce red tape, because this increases bureaucracy and increases the cost of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u6	Madam President! Affordable housing and controlling the pressure on rent increases are important objectives and must be given by Minister of Housing Kimmo Thank you, Mr Tiilikainen, for putting these government housing and housing records in motion at a high pace. The best guarantee for affordable housing, as the previous speaker on the opposition said, is that we have enough construction and enough housing, housing. That is why the Government Programme has included the acceleration of housing production and is working on a study on the ten-year interim model of interest subsidy for rental dwellings. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen a little more about this: what is all going on and how are these reforms going to proceed? We also intend to limit the right of appeal, to make complaints so that planning can be speeded up. We have billions of projects, different projects waiting for permits — not all of them, of course, but many others — and that is why we need to move forward on these issues. We will also abandon the procedure for establishing zoning, and small additional construction will be permitted through the notification procedure. As a big issue, land use and housing agreements, the MAL agreements, are also intended to be extended to the growth corridors, and I would also ask Minister Tiilikainen about this: what is the timetable for, for example, the main growth corridor Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-TampereutonMAL agreement to be received?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u7	A few replies have been requested here. The first was to ask for Mr Jokinen, please, and then everyone who has asked can have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u8	Madam President! It is very important that the government, at a rapid pace, has now taken up this objective of increasing affordable housing production and addressing the problems it has had. These zoning regulations are such that, for example, at the moment in Helsinki zoning regulations make housing construction EUR 800 per square metre more expensive than being a little further away outside the capital city. It is therefore very important that this support for housing in accordance with the MAL agreements is also targeted at these growth corridors. In these large growth corridors along large transport routes, Helsinki—Hämeenlinna—Tampere,Helsinki—Lahti,Helsinki—Turku direction,there is a reasonable price on offer,there is a willingness to build affordable housing on the major transport routes. My question is this: what is the timetable for achieving this support also for these growth corridors and not just for large growth centres, as is currently the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u9	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that you actually used these speeches the way you used them, because it is worth looking more closely at what kind of government housing policy this government has chosen. You are, of course, going to stop the production of affordable housing altogether. It's a really big matter of value choice. I think Mr Myller was talking about the right thing. We thank the Minister for doing this, for bringing this proposal here. This has already been clarified over the last period and I think it is a step in the right direction and, despite the criticism that it does not significantly reduce the rent prices, I still think it is right that you brought this. But it is a big question of value selection that you cannot hold this interest rate on own resources at the rate which was a great achievement in the last period, and now that it is raised to 3.4%, you can say goodbye to affordable housing production, especially when investment grants do not necessarily come. However, I have assumed that the Minister would come to regret this and, in that respect, investment aid would still be offered to some groups. But now I would ask, is there something greener coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u10	Mr President! This amendment brings the possibility of affordable housing. It is true, as Mrs Myller said, that there are no affordable rental dwellings where they should be, which means that there is a large deficit. Four years ago, then Minister Kiuru promised: quickly affordable rental housing,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u11	Mr President! That is what is really worrying here: it is precisely the improvements in affordable housing production that were made in the last period, such as state aid, that will now be abolished from the beginning of next year. In terms of supporting the creation of affordable homes for people, this government is taking away all the incentives, the support measures. The interest rate on equity will once again be raised to such a level that no one will build these. This is a major concern expressed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection as a whole, and in this situation, if there is a need for a comprehensive programme that will bring about rapid changes. That's what worries me so much. In addition, Minister, you are cutting the mandate for the investment grant for the special groups over the last period. You have now torn open the connection of this MAL agreement to infrastructure construction here in the capital region, it will not happen. And so, when we talk about repairs, last season we put 155 million extra money into the renovation of homes, and now this money is being cut to a minimum. So, could you take a stand on that, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u12	Mr President! Blaspheming and reminiscing are not necessarily a fruitful way of doing things. Our turn has been to house ministers from different parties. Yes, the basic problem with housing policy is that it is such a law-based job of supply and demand, and when there is not enough supply, prices are high. In Töölö, housing costs not as much as in Manhattan, New York, because planning is more expensive or because of some of these individual reasons, but because of the price of housing and therefore the rents are basically determined on the housing market. This is a big structural problem. As a result, the capital region alone has tens of thousands of people waiting in queues for rental dwellings waiting for them to be too small. It is true that this one proposal, which contains a lot of good things, is now giving the impression that this is going to solve the problem of affordable housing. This is not the case when, at the same time, the interest rate on own resources is raised from 1% to 3.4%, cutting back on correction grants, cutting down on special groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u13	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that, when Mr Mölsä said that there was no promotion of affordable housing production over the last period, I was allowed to make a very specific speech. The measures taken in the last period 2013-2015, i.e. those taken for the big housing policy package, have started to bite. In that package, the interest rate was 1, the start-up grants were granted at EUR 10000 per destination, and the starting rent was EUR 9.2 per square metre per month. Now in 2016, if there is no longer this reduction in the interest rate that has been in use in the last period, in practice it is because and without a start-up grant there will be a situation where the rental of the item will rise to approximately EUR 15.5 per square metre per month. Isn't it pretty tough that last season there were apartments with a starting price of less than EUR 10?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u14	Madam President! Indeed, the problem in this country is far too expensive rental housing. The problem is also that in Isojoki, for example, a two-way of EUR 17,000 will be obtained, in Helsinki the corresponding two-way will cost EUR 270,000 — the same architect, the same building, the same supplies. Why is this so? One thing that's going to affect this is our whole warped system. We have built this system in such a way that with the money of society, our tax money, we pay for these constructions in the form of housing subsidies. We are making possible this shockingly high rent level in this country. As long as we agree to this, interest rates will rise on the private as well as on the municipal and national sides. We have to be able to lower the rent levels. They are not calculated by making the poor pay themselves, of course, but rather by reducing the rent level. And it is a good thing for this government that the government is now seeking to reduce the rent level, at least in new dwellings and after repairs. It's definitely the direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u15	Mr President! The lack we have had in housing policy is a lack of long-term sustainability. It would have been extremely important, therefore, that the measures put in place by the last government should have been continued and strengthened, because it seems that we all agree that it is precisely because we do not have supply but there is demand. Now that we are talking about this ten-year intermediate model, for example, we do not yet know what it will be like, but it certainly does not represent long-term sustainability and consistency, because in it, as it were, these apartments are temporary rental dwellings and the price will be what was said here: well beyond the current sore rental prices. But what we need is affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u16	I would like to give a reply to the following representatives: Mr Heinonen, Mr Torniainen, Mr Jokinen, Mr Viitanen, Mr Kiuru Krista and Mr Uotila. Then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u17	Mr President! The statistics are incorruptible, and looking into the rear-view mirror does not solve anything, but the fact is that Minister Vapaavuori, as Minister for Housing, is at present at the forefront of how many homes have been built in this country. I believe that the Minister will: Once again, a good leap will be seen in the course of the bricks, where, for example, this ten-year midterm in terms of interest support is one good way to achieve what has been hoped for, and I believe that it will be achieved. And when we have enough construction, enough housing, then the cost of all housing is down, and that is a good goal. But I think it is honest and fair now to judge, for example, this government and Minister Tiilikaa a little longer in time, so let the minister now take these measures, which we have a lot of in the government programme, and let us see what happens. I personally believe that these government programme measures, which Mr Tiilikainen is determined to take to everyday life, will lead to more construction, different construction, affordable rental housing in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u18	Madam President! It is a very good thing that the government has taken a quick stand to improve the conditions for construction. Different forms of support and forms of support are very important, but not just forms of support and support are needed; there is also a great need for red tape in planning, planning, construction and so on. It will also increase production, which is extremely important, and I hope that the government will continue to take this prompt step in that direction too. It is precisely this government proposal that aims to promote the reasonableness of housing costs in the state-supported housing stock, and that, in my opinion, is a good thing in this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u19	Madam President! It is very important that we now understand that transport and housing policies go hand in hand. That is why it is important to have this perspective, which is now being opened up, that these growth corridors are also those areas in which housing production needs to be supported, not just in large growth centres. When you talk to the young couples who are planning to place themselves, where their lives are located, they talk about these very large transport routes and where they are located, because you don't know where that job is always to be found on the way. It is not necessary to commit ourselves to one locality, but to a strong transport corridor and a growth corridor, and it is therefore important that support for housing production is also directed towards these growth corridors. But it also requires a certain amount of investment in the transport infrastructure in order to make maximum use of the built-up transport infrastructure by means of small additional investments, by investing in seismics, by opening up motorway rest areas into interfaces, so that housing areas can be built there. These small additional investments will increase efficiency
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u20	Mr President! We are assessing the Government Programme, and that is what scares us most is that it is now precisely this support for affordable housing production that is being removed. I am surprised at this once again when I see a 100% turnaround for the Finns: last season you are demanding a great deal of government action to promote affordable housing, and now that you are in the government itself, you say here that precisely, these subsidies should not exist at all. I wonder if this was once again the market economy that was at stake in the recent issue? President! Just a few days ago, I remember Yle’s news coverage, in which the decision-makers in the capital region criticized the government for its lack of urban policy as a whole. I think there was a great deal of concern about this from the former MP Mäkinen of the Coalition Party in Vantaa. This is a serious problem, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you will take this seriously. People need affordable homes, urban areas need to be able to develop. In the same context, the government has virtually put on ice the development of these suburbs, and to a very large extent it is also linked to wise housing policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u21	Mr President! It was a good thing that the mid-term model of Vapaavuori came up here, and it was already called for housing to rise. Yes, the State took on the role of suddenly supporting the market-based creation of rental housing. And I ask you again: is it for this purpose that taxpayers' money is being used to produce grynder housing at the same time, with taxpayers' money? This is not what should be done, the starting price was 20 euros per square metre per month. I do believe that, thank God, I am sure the Minister will. The brick guy doesn't want to go. The question now is that, if this is the only model, this review of the rental valuation, this will mean that these measures will really remain bare. Now it is a question of you completely stopping the production of affordable rental housing, and I agree that the Minister should be given mercy. You have the opportunity to restore this interest rate. Although you have now determined that this 1% interest rate will be waived, you can return it anyway. These are not austerity issues
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u22	The reply to Mr Uotila, then the Minister will reply, and we will continue the debate after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u23	Mr President! Indeed, housing policy, especially in growth centres and the capital region, is very important. It should actually be among the government's top projects to get it out of hand, because it affects employment, it affects the purchasing power of the citizens. It has an impact on the level of wage-calling for citizens, employees: if 30-40% of the disposable income is used for housing, money should be made available for this. So the cost of living is a really big social problem, whether we talk about high rents or other high housing costs, and that is why we encourage the Minister to move this issue forward. As far as this balancing is concerned, I think it makes sense in the sense that many tenants who are obediently paying all expenses, capital costs, maintenance costs, all the costs of their housing, because of the injustices of the equalisation systems, have also had to pay on that page quite other housing and the costs of other dwellings, and that is not fair when the tenant has paid all expenses for his own rent otherwise, unlike owner-occupied residents who receive subsidies through the right to deduct interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u24	Minister Tiilikainen, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u25	Thank you, Mr President. — The present proposal specifically limits the rise in rents. Just as Mr Uotila said, this now limits how much different costs can be set for the tenant. As Mr Kiuru said, this has indeed been explained, and I believe that has even been the subject of statements in the past. Now we're gonna do it, not just plan it. Increasing housing construction is one of the government's top projects, while more housing construction is part of the employment and competitiveness targets. How? Unfortunately, when there is a complaint here that the conditions are being taken away from affordable housing production, you are wrong. Contracts of use and disposal: This 40-year limitation period is far too long somewhere. If the owner of the dwelling undertakes to invest in the new production of its capital, it is possible to give up this restriction on use in the past, to sell dwellings, to start producing new ones. We'll get more construction. And as Mr Viitanen already knew — The Kiuru had apparently slipped away — investment grants for student housing, youth housing, senior housing, to increase housing. If we want to increase construction, these low - aid targets will give us more start-ups with the same money than by limiting them away. And as far as this available money is concerned, as many euros will be available for investment grants from special groups next year as this year. MAL agreements will continue — MAL agreements will continue with all cities. In addition, growth pacts and growth corridor agreements are concluded in accordance with the Government Programme guidelines. Start-up grants in the Helsinki region will be maintained, at EUR 10000 per starting dwelling. They're not going anywhere. Municipal technology grants remain at the same level in MAL contracts. Mr President! It is great that the whole of housing policy is of interest to Parliament. This bill, which is now being introduced, is necessary for the tenants, because it reduces the pressure to rise, curbs the possibility of charging excessive rents. Otherwise, these actions: whenever there are government proposals, I will be happy to continue the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u26	There were a few more requests for answers. Let's get started, Congressman Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u27	Mr President! It is important that, when dealing with this housing policy, it is dealt with as a whole, and what Jokinen has said here is extremely important: transport projects and housing go hand in hand. That is precisely what this partnership between the state and the Helsinki region has been about, for example, to get new plots of land, to solve it, to get more housing. So, what are you doing? You pulled the Pisara track, the government betrayed the promise. And when you say we have to get more players, that requires more land. Now that you don't even have a warm hand in these negotiations, but a cold hand, where do you think you're getting those plots? At the same time, then, from those operators who, in this situation, are still building affordable housing production, you are withdrawing those subsidies or withdrawing them to a minimum, and that too will be put at risk. So now these measures, which you are taking both on the side of this partnership and then on the side of this Ara production, on the side of interest subsidies, are at risk of both going into the forest and in four years' time, unlike in Vantaa today, for example, where affordable rental housing is built at a record rate, will be completely different if you do not change these policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u28	Mr President! What the Minister just said: What we need to address once and for all is that only a small circle is currently building and repairing. Unfortunately, this is how it works in the whole country. It is quite cartel-based and highly distorted, and it is wrong. Also, the fact that we use a very large number of foreign workers on construction sites reduces the jobs of a Finnish worker. One of the consequences of this has also been that there has also been a little of this and that. Then the Finns have gone to fix them later. We have got wet walls to stay, mold problems are growing, they are increasing. Well, here's the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u29	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the promise that investment grants will be returned, for example, to these student housing centres. This is a very important issue, and it is an important issue, especially for these growth centres, where there are many students. The objective of this bill on affordable housing is a step in the right direction, but, as has already been said here, one can wonder whether it is sufficient. But I wanted to draw attention to this second government proposal, which is now under discussion. It is the future income limits for housing supported by the state of Tampere and the Helsinki Region. This is a very worrying presentation in the sense that the segregation of different residential areas is such a development that we all need to be concerned about and what we need to fight uncompromisingly. This proposal may lead to more and more poor people living in certain houses in certain areas, where the aim must be that people live very evenly in terms of different ethnic groups, in terms of different levels of income. So, has it ever been thought of if this performance adds to the segregation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u30	Mr President! Dear Minister, not long ago, it was only a few weeks ago, the night of the homeless was spent, and there were dozens of people there, but we have thousands of homeless people in Finland. We also have families with two thirds of their income going to housing. You may wonder what part remains of children’s hobbies, food, and other activities. Housing construction and affordable housing should not be the objectives of one government, but from one government to another our important priorities. But here I am also asking about the same subject, which Mr Sarkkinen raised. I consider this way of restoring the income limits of those living in Ara dwellings to be a very bad thing, as a mere regulation past Parliament. But then to this question itself: Indeed, increasing bureaucracy is one thing, and it is certainly not one of the government's top projects, that more bureaucracy is certainly enough in this area. Then there is, of course, this inequality, the inequality of regions. The need for housing is already being checked and, of course, it will continue to be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u31	Madam President! It was good that the government also withdrew its intention to cut investment grants from youth and student housing. But the problem remains that, at the same time, you also withdrew the decision of the previous government to increase this framework for investment aid for special groups, because the need for, for example, the housing of older people is increasing enormously and now this anticipation is impossible. President! It is true that, in view of this whole programme of government, you are, unfortunately, cutting subsidies on housing in a significant way, not only in terms of new production in practice, but also in terms of the renovation that we are talking about today. It has become so much of a concern now. Would you think now that you would also withdraw your intention to cut off this renovation? It serves not only to keep people's homes in good shape, but also to achieve a significant increase in employment in this economic situation. As far as this previous question is concerned, I hope that the Minister will now be able to take the side of the suburbs seriously and continue with the development efforts, because at least last season they also received a lot of positive feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u32	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to the Minister that it is good that you take this concern seriously, namely that housing policy is important and that we must promote affordable housing production and trust you in taking Parliament's message seriously. On that list, when you listed the measures you are going to take, the most impressive thing is that the interest rate on own resources would be 1%, which would make the rent on these new buildings less than EUR 10. If, as you say, a start-up grant were still maintained in the capital region, this would still lead to EUR 14 being the calculated rental price, while last season between EUR 9.5 and EUR 10. That is why I do not think it is pointless here to talk about these euros. EUR 4 is a huge amount of money in relation to the fact that this proposal now under discussion is unable to deliver such benefits. That is why I ask the Minister once again whether you would consider this — I know that we are dealing with hard-handed officials from the Ministry of Finance, but they have been persuaded in the past. In that respect, I would also like you to return to this question of reducing the interest rate on own resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u33	I would like to give three more comments, followed by a list of speakers, and these three are representatives Mölsä, Myller and Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u34	Madam President! When Mr Tolppanen raised the issue of home and bottle houses here, that is where I come up with the supervision of this building. Furthermore, grynders are allowed to build terraced and apartment buildings without any supervision as long as less than half of the apartments are not sold — and I am not referring here to the building supervisors or the equivalent supervisor who is working with the developer. Should there be a change to the Land Use and Building Act in this regard, that this supervision, however, in such non-subsidised dwellings, should be brought into order, because there is still a clear flaw in it? This regulatory oversight has been reduced all along, and so on. Do you know this one?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u35	Mr President! Indeed, we should return to this long-term housing policy. Housing policy is often seen as part of other policies, cyclical, labour market policy. I personally think it is important that housing policy should also be linked to increasing employment, but it must also be seen that housing policy is also an independent part of the policy. It is then a question of what the previous government housing minister, Pia Viitanen, often said, said about people's homes. For this reason, it is difficult to understand that this ten-year intermediate model could even be implemented in such a way that it would be even shorter than ten years to stay in rented housing, but it is a question of people wanting and families wanting to build their own homes somewhere and not being at the mercy of what the grynders want to build at any time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u36	The reply, Mr Meri, will then go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u37	Mr President! There was talk here of house prices and construction and many more, and this house price and the cost of building costs are important things. I may be passing a little by this government proposal because this debate has expanded a little, but I would like to mention what has been in the press in recent weeks, for example, that repair and construction is very expensive. When you think of the cost of a workman, electricians and plumbers pay twice the salary of a normal person, and the cost of construction often rises. This is where Mr Tolppanen referred to this control of the building and its intervention. At least we in Hyvinkää municipality have even gone through too strict building regulations, which in turn also increase the cost. And there are so many different overseers, which also increases the cost of the builder. After all, Finland is also traditionally a time-based owner-occupied dwelling. So I would also ask the Minister to consider what we could actually do about this and whether the legislator could look at it as a whole, because there are very different requirements by municipality and they are often quite unreasonable: when you build a home for yourself, you have to have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u38	The Minister wishes to respond to this. Please, Minister Tiilikainen, 3 minutes, and then you will be prepared according to Mr Sarkkinen's list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u39	Mr President! Many interesting subjects, representatives, you raised. Representative Viitanen spoke with warmth about suburbs. The current housing minister has also visited the suburbs, but just as he was getting to know, there was not a great deal of media involved. These renovations and additions are very important things, and people want to keep them. Now I take an example of this, when here many times a speech came that support and support here and there and should be able to lower the price of housing: Accessibility is an important issue in construction. In an ageing Finland we will need one million accessible apartments in 15 years' time. At the moment, there are 330,000 of them. We need the same amount of new production, the same amount of renovation. Now that we are talking about this EUR 10000 start-up grant, I have been working with Kynnys ry and the officials of the Ministry on how accessibility can be implemented. At the moment, when it is often implemented in such a way that it has a bathroom of up to 6 square meters, with better design that accessibility goal can be achieved in a space up to 2 square meters smaller. 2 saved squares of these construction costs are just as much as the $10,000 start-up grant. This tells us that if you have no money, you have to make sense, and you have to be prepared to look at and apply these rules and interpret them in such a way that you can sometimes achieve them without subsidies. They also do not exclude each other. For example, renovation aid for lifts will continue — something that came to my mind. Several representatives asked about this building supervision, and that is certainly where we differ from one municipality to another. In this context, when a social and regional government solution is created, we also need to consider whether there is any indication of a reform of building supervision. And Mr Mölsä raised the issue of whether the supervisor was independent of the developer. I have come across this issue, and it is important that these responsibilities and responsibilities are clarified. Just a few more comments: Mr Razmyar, I liked your speech overall. That is the idea that the need for affordable housing goes beyond the parliamentary term — that is exactly what it is. There have been many-looking housing ministers here over the years, and when I started, the housing line was very long and the shortage was great. I don't know where I'm going to be when I quit, but it's not born overnight, it's not solved overnight, it's just that this needs such a long-term and cooperative attitude. There is also a need for good cooperation between the state and cities, since the city is responsible for providing adequate planning and land supply in Helsinki and other cities. Without it, it will not be possible to build up the government by pushing a string.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u40	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u41	Mr President! This government proposal before us is heading in the right direction and, in particular, its objective is a good one. Housing is now far too expensive for many, and it drives people into poverty, and the high level of rents and the lack of housing also limit the economic capacity, especially in the capital region. As has already been said here, this proposal is a step in the right direction, but it may not be enough. The real problem I see in this consultation is the draft regulation on income limits for state-subsidised housing in Tampere and the Helsinki region. As I said earlier, there is a fear that housing, houses and residential areas will differ socio-economically. In particular, it is important to consider this segregation of residential areas now that the number of immigrants in Finland is increasing and probably the majority of new immigrants are moving to these growing urban areas. It is important to have housing policy to ensure that we do not have such ethnically or socio-economically differentiated neighbourhoods, that the rich live in other regions and the poor in other regions, that immigrants in other regions and that the Finns in the majority of Finland live in other regions. This is an extremely important issue at national level, and housing policy is an important tool for preventing this segregation. I would also like this draft regulation to be considered from this point of view. But I would then like to bring a new perspective to the debate, which has not yet been the case today. Finland is a big country, and here we have mainly talked about the housing policy of these growth centres and its challenges — and of course the biggest challenges are there because the housing shortage and the mass of people are there — but we should actually get to the idea that there is a little different housing policy in different areas in Finland, or at least there should be, because the challenges in these remote areas are quite different from those in the growth centres. The problem there is that there are too many dwellings, the values of dwellings are falling, there are empty Ara-subsidised rental dwellings that burden the municipal companies' balance sheets. It is important to note that we cannot make a single housing policy for the needs of the whole country, but that this diversity must be taken into account. I would now like to ask the Minister, when there is an opportunity: what kind of ideas and plans have there been, whether there have been any discussions on how to respond to the challenges of these declining — or perhaps the wrong word — regions where vacant Ara rental dwellings are located? There would be a need to dismantle these under-utilised or unfit housing companies, but often it may be hindered by the fact that there is a loan in the back or that the cost of dismantling becomes so high that the company cannot bear it. And then, on the other hand, these underutilised buildings burden the balance sheets of these companies and, consequently, the rents of these residents. That is, if the Minister were able to express his views. But it is important in this housing policy to look at this whole housing policy chain in order to achieve that goal: affordable and adequate housing production and good and affordable housing for people. And it's the land policy of the municipalities. This is one thing that is often forgotten in this debate. This is something that affects both zoning and land prices, and thus it affects the price of housing and then it affects whether people have housing and what prices. I would like these MAL agreements to be able to direct municipalities towards such an active and public-interest land policy, a land policy that aims at sufficient and affordable land production and not profit-making for landowners. In other words, the municipality must take land policy into very strong direction and acquire land for itself and plan for its own country. You can visit Oulu on a field trip. These MAL agreements are important as well as transport policy. Understanding that transport policy is a housing policy is extremely important, and these growth centres' fairway projects, railway projects, tram projects and so on must be seen in the sense that they generate housing production. In other words, the euro put into them is not only the euro for transport policy, but they are generating new housing for us, thereby facilitating this housing shortage and also reducing the cost of living. One important issue is also these public housing companies, municipal housing companies. Since these are genuinely of general interest, are not profit-making, they are an important player, and I would like them to play a bigger role in our housing policy. And these investment grants and renovation grants have their own important role to play, and I hope that they will continue to serve as tools for state housing policy. And, as Mrs Myller said very well at the outset, these Ara loan terms and interest rates have a great deal of impact. I hope that in this kingdom we will be able to achieve a long-term housing policy that goes beyond government terms, with a clear goal for all to live at affordable prices. But we are now in a situation of economic crisis where it is precisely the right time to build and repair. Relatively small government contributions to investment grants or fairway projects can mobilise a large number of projects and new housing, but also work during the construction period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u42	Madam President! At the Debrat, I said about reminiscing with the old. I remember so much old that sometimes this housing policy feels rather painful.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u47	Madam President! I would now like to take the floor and wish the wise minister a lot of luck in this demanding task, namely that it is not easy. I believe that all support comes from the opposition to the measures that actually give us more affordable — note. affordable — homes for people. I hope the Minister will be able to stand by and perhaps rebel against his own government programme. You already made one good move, that is to say, you cancelled these cuts in student and youth housing, and if this same little review of the government programme could help, then there will certainly be support for it, because we have quite a lot of challenges, as has been pointed out here. This situation is becoming more and more difficult, and it is therefore important to have this comprehensive approach now, where all the actors — the state, the municipalities, the builders, the developers — would be involved, this housing policy thinking, and, for example, the agreement of the last period that, in the context of the MAL agreements, municipalities commit themselves to increasing the supply of land against certain infrastructure projects, was very good, and it is a pity that this thinking has now been torn down here in the capital region. Let's hope you can fight for this now. I also hope that you will see, yesterday, that there was a great deal of discussion about employment in this Chamber and about the measures needed to improve employment here and now — construction, the renovation of homes — that this is precisely what they are, not only humanly correct, but also very wise in terms of employment policy. And at this moment, it would be worth taking up and encouraging the whole government to take, for example, one employment measure here and now. Finally, President, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to hear that the Minister has visited the suburbs. Of course, when these challenges are big and we started working very comprehensively together on the development of suburbs in many administrative sectors, which also involved a sector other than the ministries alone — there were municipal operators, the church, everything else, together were considered to be measures to prevent exclusion or segregation of this kind, to maintain services in people's residential areas and all of this — so I hope that this work could be carried on between the administrative sectors quite seriously, because these challenges will only grow, not be reduced, unless they are systematically tackled. I'd like a minister, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u48	Madam President! A few comments on this housing-related interest subsidy law. It is good, of course, that, in order to lower housing prices, we work all the time so that we can offer cheaper rental and housing housing. But there is one thing that has been completely forgotten in this debate: if we really want cheaper housing in this country, then this absurd concentration must simply be brought into some reasonable perspective. It no longer makes sense for statistical centres and many other official bodies to draw up plans to move a few hundred thousand people into the capital region, a little depending on the set-up. I've seen statistics showing more people coming into this area from 100,000 to 400,000. With this procedure, we will ensure that house prices are increasing. It has two consequences: The first is that ordinary people, ordinary wage earners, can no longer afford to live in this city, whether in an owner-occupied dwelling or a rental dwelling. In both cases, however, the cost is always borne by the tenant. The second point is that this huge increase in costs will keep dropping us from the competitive world market. The prices of our products are rising, housing costs are rising, and that will lead to... — Mr Viitanen now signs the Minister. This minister has nothing to do with this. I know that the Minister Tiilikainen is an enthusiastic supporter of sparsely populated areas and also rural settlements. There's no need for the Minister to... Take the example of the Minister’s good speeches. — — — — If we want cheaper housing in this country, this absurd concentration will lead to a result, which will put Finland more and more under pressure in this competitive situation. We are losing the world market all the time because the costs are rising. And if the cost rises, it will mean more wage demands and it will mean more and more that we are falling out of the market. In any case, we must do something about this. It is good that there will be new laws, but even more important, if we really want this country to be competitive, bioeconomy and many other good ones, we will also have to develop Finnish rural areas, otherwise we will never get out of this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u50	Minister Tiilikainen wanted to answer this question, and then let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u51	Mr President! A few more comments: This concern of Mr Hoskosen, which caused some kind of exchange of ideas in the Chamber, is well founded. The higher the demand for dwellings, the higher the pressure is on the price. That is why this housing policy and construction policy are condensed in two words. They are'more' and'release'. There is a need for more where there is an indisputable shortage and a queue already now, and for liberalisation there in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas where there is no shortage of land or other, but only for people to be able to take their own action. And Mr Viitanen, I am actually expanding this suburban work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u54	There were two requests for answers, Mr Marin and Mr Viitanen, and there seem to be others. — First, Mr Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u55	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen spoke here, saying that urbanisation is the result of concentration. I can say that urbanisation is a natural phenomenon and we must prepare ourselves for it in many different ways: for example, by increasing housing production in these urban areas; by increasing public transport in these urban areas; by increasing the efficiency of land use in urban areas where people naturally focus, where people move. We cannot reject this change, we cannot prevent it. But we can prepare for it, and we should do so. I have been rather concerned about following government policy in the way the government treats urban areas, urban projects. I hope that the government will not be withdrawing from funding, for example, the urban tram project in Tampere. However, Minister Berner has said that he has no intention of withdrawing from this, and I hope that this line will be maintained and that the urban regions will also be given the opportunity to accept the migration of the population which is naturally coming to the cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u56	Mr President! It is quite obvious to me that there is a need for a slightly different approach to housing policy in different areas. I sometimes find it a little confusing in the debate on housing policy that, at a time when we have a large housing shortage in growth centres, the big challenges, elsewhere, as has already been mentioned, there may be quite another type of challenge. And I wouldn't see such a confrontation that if we developed something, it's like turning our backs on someone else. This has long been recognised that there are different needs. But, President-in-Office, when we have also spoken today about this whole set of standards and other things – I know that there are currently rules on dismantling, building arrangements and regulations being reformed and, as it were, trying to get rid of all unnecessary regulation – I agree, and it was also very much promoted during my own term. I would like to raise one point here, which relates to this subject and to which I would like to ask the Minister. While we were putting this energy certificate renewal work into motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u57	Madam President! I certainly did not mean that we should go somewhere and direct our living. It is important, just as Mr Tiilikainen summed this up most in my opinion, that it is a good thing that there should be new low-cost housing for those who live there, but it should also be possible to build in rural areas in the other hand. In Ilomants, my municipality of residence, there is an apartment building that has been built for four years. — Mr Marin, for four years it has been built there. — When has one of the sour poopers been on the wrong road or a worm been on its side where it was built, or when there has been a scenic value threatened. All over the world, the green bishops are attacking these projects and preventing the rational construction that would bring jobs, livelihoods and new taxpayers to that region. We are trying to prevent this by all the means available to us — it cannot be that way. Finland is the least populated country in the European Union, and if we want to concentrate, then we must stop complaining that we all pay too much, that we are too hard, that we fall out of competition and that we are losing more and more markets, that we cannot sell our products. This must then be stopped if we continue to increase and increase this concentration. That is the result of the policy that has been taken. It is not a plague, it is the result of a wrong policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u58	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Marin pointed out that urbanisation was a natural phenomenon. Of course, this is true because people move where there is work. But urbanisation in this country has also been a political choice and can be politically influenced by whether we are a decentralised society and whether this whole country is kept inhabited. The only way to do this is to make an effective regional policy and to ensure that the conditions for living are maintained evenly throughout the country. This is also the only way to mobilise the resources and resources of the whole country, because growth needs to be sought where it does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u59	Madam President! Mr Kärnä said that there would have been a particularly active urbanisation policy in Finland. This is by no means the case. For a very long time, a very effective regional policy has been pursued in Finland, and that is why we have had much slower urbanisation than many other European countries, such as many of the Nordic countries. I would see that there is no such problem as you mentioned in that speech. Instead, we have a problem with the way we prepare for people to move to more cities. We must be prepared for this in a number of ways, as I said in my previous speech: in terms of housing policy, transport policy, land use policy and many other policies. We certainly have joint work to do here, both in the government and in the opposition parties. This goes beyond these limits, and I hope that the representatives of the government parties will also be ready for this cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u60	Madam President! For example, the previous government concluded growth and development agreements with only 12 of Finland's largest urban regions, and that was a political choice. For example, if the government so wishes, it can conclude these agreements with the provinces and influence them through its policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u64	Mr President! I myself took up this previous speech by Mr Marin. The idea that urbanisation or the development of society is, as it were, a natural phenomenon — I myself see that it is by no means a natural phenomenon. No concentration, urbanisation, under no circumstances can be a natural law. Yes, it is a wide variety of political choices. However, I think it is important that we understand, that we are in government or opposition, that this country only develops with all its strength. That is why we must try to make a policy that enables the full resources of this vast country to be used as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u65	I give the following answers: Mr Karimäki, Mr Myller, Mr Uotila and Mr Marin. Congressman Karimäki will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u66	Madam President! There has been a debate here on urbanisation and the development of regions. Yes, it is that there is a global megatrend that urbanisation is a common phenomenon. People go to the city, people move to the city, both at home and elsewhere. This means that we have a shortage of housing, we have a shortage of public transport connections, and these are the issues that growth centres need to focus on. Of course, the whole of Finland must be taken care of and the strengths of all regions must be emphasised. I wonder, therefore, when the government cuts across the provinces and the whole of Finland by train, connections, cross-links,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u67	Mr President! Regional policy is important. That is why I would like to ask how many times the word'regional policy' appears in this government's programme. Not once, I understand. That is what has been seen in this action, and the issue of traffic policy, which was read at the beginning of this sitting, was a harsh truth about this matter. We need a genuine regional policy, we need to develop the strengths of different regions, and we need a genuine choice where people want to live with their families. However, this does not exclude that we should not make sure that the areas where people come after work are also areas and cities where people can actually live and where their working and living can be combined in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u68	Mr President! We're talking about housing policy, and we should stick to it. The question is whether the small social support networks that are targeted at housing support should be targeted where there are tens of thousands of housing queues and where the challenges of housing are the hardest, or whether they should be targeted where there is no demand for housing and, on the contrary, where there is a need for housing demolition grants. I suppose the answer is clear. These resources must be focused on where the challenges of housing are greatest and where the number of people in need of housing is highest. I fully agree with Mr Karimäki and I believe that the Minister will: Even the brickman admits that these are not mere questions of will. Urbanisation is a global trend, it happens everywhere, and it is, for example, much longer in the countries with which we are competing. That is perhaps why we are losing some of the competition to them. But there is one question about standards: what is the standard for civil protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u70	Mr President! Mr Uotila quite rightly referred this debate back to this subject, which is housing policy, but when Mr Hoskonen and other representatives of the government parties clearly feel that there is a need here for some sort of confrontation between urban regions and other regions, I would see that this type of confrontation is completely pointless. We also need an active urban policy for the sake of the economy, for the sake of the economic structure, because people are naturally also looking for cities at the moment. And we also need a regional policy to keep the whole of Finland alive. I see no reason why these things have to be put together. I hope that the representatives of the government parties will also have the will to see the development needs of urban areas in these different areas, to which this housing policy is closely linked, and not to create a pretentious confrontation between rural and urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u71	Let us take three more replies — then let us go to the list of speakers — namely Mrs Viitanen, Myllykoski, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u72	Mr President! I do think that a good regional policy must be established in this country. There is a need for balanced development of the regions. That is why I think it was a good example that today, under the leadership of the opposition, the SDP, for example, asked a very topical question from this point of view: why are VR's purchasing services being cut in the provinces, the tracks being rolled up and, therefore, the conditions for living in the various provinces being reduced? There has been great concern about this all over Finland. I certainly hope that the government will be able to withdraw its intention here too and, for example, part of this reduction in car tax, which seemed to be sufficient money, will then put in place to secure the public transport links that are really necessary in these regions. President! That theme of the day, the apartments and the need for them, we're not going anywhere. That is why I continue to call for a holistic approach to development, such as various projects for the construction of urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u73	Madam President! I must say that, in this debate, Mr Hoskonen forgets that perhaps his own backyard is not quite in the right condition to be in favour of this drastic confrontation. Yes, the vitality and housing of sparsely populated areas are secured in some ways other than by supporting housing construction. It is true that the infrastructure, the fibres, we have the opportunity to do business there, to do the necessary wage work for society, is certainly there, but there is no support for housing construction. Those apartments need to be built where they need to be. I believe that the closure of the village schools by a few hundred — or now probably by another thousand — indicates that there is concentration there too, so it is no use denying that it is not a choice. Central municipalities have concentrated very much on central centres, schools have been closed down. This is a little bigger than that. There's no point in us arguing about this, because this is a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u74	Mr President! This is where Mr Myllykoski, Mr Uotila and Mr Marin have the difficulty of hearing a little, but let us strengthen their hearing. I have never insisted that state aid should be provided for the construction of rural areas, no more than for any other place. All I've been talking about is that once we get the building permits at least, people can invest in their own buildings, summer cottages, detached houses, apartment blocks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u75	I will give you three more answers: Korhonen, Kärnä, Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u76	Madam President! Now I fully agree with the last part of Mr Marin's speech. There is absolutely no reason for us to create or do any kind of confrontation between cities or rural areas, just like that, and at least I did not understand in the past that there would be any confrontation at all to the slightest, because it was precisely that we should use all the resources of this vast country, the resources of all the regions of the country. And Mr Uotila, it is also a question of seeking to exploit all the resources in the country to find employment opportunities, jobs all over the country, thereby reducing the need for mobility, for example, in growth centres. It must be understood that this country is also developing through other sources than growth centres alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u77	Madam President! Mrs Korhonen did take the words out of my mouth, and I would also like to thank Mrs Marin for her own speech. Indeed, there is no need to build and build this confrontation, but together we must ensure that this whole country remains alive and inhabited. But the political choice is whether or not to do so. Unfortunately, for example, at the time of the previous government, the sled did not go in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u78	Madam President! Representative Hoskonen raised the Government's plans for a change in the Land Use and Building Act, where the regional plans would no longer be confirmed at the Ministry of the Environment. This is a very worrying line, though,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u79	From the list of speakers, Mr Uotila. Then the minister responds, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u80	Mr President! This did not really know what the debate was and what the speech was, but I would really like an answer to this issue of civil protection. After all, we have a situation where Albania, Israel and Switzerland, along with Finland, are the countries which currently require housing to build shelters, apparently because tomorrow a nuclear attack may come. This has been the subject of discussions, a rather lively debate during the last period and, of course, there was little disagreement between the various authorities. I would like an answer to this. And finally, to bless this regional policy: We can all sign that the whole country must be kept inhabited and that the resources of all parts of the country must be made available and that there must be action in all parts of the country — that is certainly the case, that is what everyone is signing. Now we are following the actions of the three governments of the bourgeoisies: whether there will be acts in this regard or what will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u81	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u82	Mr President! People have the right to choose their place of residence and form of residence. It is a good thing that, at the end of this debate, there seems to be a consensus that we should not set different areas against each other. Nor should we put different forms of living against each other, because I think that almost everyone in this hall will live on rent at some point in their lives, at some point in the owner-occupied dwelling — in a terraced house, in an apartment building, in a detached house. So these forms of living must also meet people’s needs at different stages of life. On this issue of residence, Mr Myller said a pretty good phrase, at least at the beginning: genuine regional policy is to strengthen the potential of the regions. That is precisely what is at stake here in transferring the decision-making power of regional planning from the Ministry of the Environment to the province, so that the province itself, through its own decisions, can strengthen its own possibilities and seize them without being guided by the big brother. The laws, the powers and the responsibilities go hand in hand, and I trust in democracy, I trust that the provincial councils will be able to carry out this task. The representative, Mr Uotila, asked about this situation in the protection of the population, and these demands on the protection of the population, as well as others such as those on construction, will then be considered as a whole in this framework of construction standards. The aim is therefore to reduce the cost of construction, but, as I said earlier with the example of accessibility, it is not always to give up some of the demands, but just to think about how it can be done as cheaply as possible and as well as possible. In fact, I have not heard a single representative calling for exactly those start-up grants or others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u85	On the list of speakers, Mr Viitanen. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u86	Mr President! This speech was intended as an extension of the debate, but let me say that, when it was said here that something was very funny, the problem here is that it is not funny, but very serious. And I am most concerned about the fact that the Minister The brick is now very weak in the background, I might say, a bit of a bad government programme. It is bad in that, in fact, here in growth centres, where more affordable homes are urgently needed, this programme is now taking away state aid, among other things, and doing a lot of weakening. On the other hand, when we talk about the conditions in the whole country, I will take investment grants, for example. During the last period, we were asked many times how we could get our elderly enough service housing and so on, and we planned that, as this need grows, the investment grant would be increased. Now it's been counted. Similarly, the development of suburbs: In different provinces there are suburbs close to all of us, they must be developed. So I have been concerned about this and I hope that the Minister will: The Tiilikainen is now listening to us here in the opposition, because we are happy to contribute to the common goal of having affordable homes here. And, of course, when it comes to this bureaucracy and all these objectives, which we share as such, I would have liked to have heard about this energy certificate for small houses, for old detached houses, when there was also work going on there, as required by Parliament, and I have not heard the point where we are going. That would also be interesting for the minister to hear, now that you're here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u87	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u88	Mr President! Reindeer farming is a reason to live and be in reindeer husbandry. You can't really see the money in it, but you can live with it. These revenues will continue to keep culture alive. This funding for reindeer husbandry and the natural economy safeguards this basic industry — the basis for this industry being able to be carried out — which then has a really great global significance for the existence of Lapland, Northern Finland and Finland as a whole. This overall impact on tourism and a large number of industries is truly enormous. There's no big money in this law, but it's really important. The profitability of reindeer husbandry has collapsed very much recently, and the predatory situation is indeed the one that has affected it most. Our highest allowed reindeer number is 203,700, but it has fallen so that in the last reindeer year only 186766 reindeer were read. This is a very worrying situation. Fortunately, there are no major changes to this Polura Act. This is mainly an update of the existing law on the basis of EU and other national financial and other regulations: matters that need to be dealt with. I'm glad you've gone this way. As far as reindeer husbandry is concerned, a great deal has been said about whether, among other things, the law on reindeer husbandry should be opened. And at least my opinion is that the law on reindeer husbandry must not be opened under any circumstances. In other words, the reindeer husbandry law must not be opened, but there are a few points in it, particularly these crop damage cases, for which we have now started work and which must be arranged in such a way that this dispute can be resolved, for we must be able to live together in that reindeer husbandry area with the various traders. Fortunately, this law now retains, among other things, the fact that farmers' fences can be replaced by this. Over the last five years, some EUR 775000 has been spent on building these crops. These are things that we will certainly be going to go through more carefully this winter, how these things should be done in the future. But at this point in time, I do not believe that there is yet a need to change this Polura law. Then other things that are now in this law are that it is good that this electronic procedure has now been taken into account. More and more reindeer husbands prefer to do these paperwork electronically. In other words, it is a good point in this law, but at the same time these electronic reporting issues should be taken into account, among other things, in those cases of fraud. Fraud cases are still being carried out on paper, and it really should no longer be in that form today, as is the case there. Fortunately, these proposals are moderate. And it is good that we will continue to be able to finance the purchase of aTV and snowmobiles, and it is good to note that it will be possible to finance them more often in the future than in the past, because unfortunately, it will not last five years when we are in active employment. Today’s reindeer men are forced to work even harder than before, as the number of reindeer herds is increasing with fewer persons and the number of people has to work harder and longer. Even in this legislative amendment, the issues of young people have now come to the fore. And it has to be noted that during this five-year period, which was noted here, the start-up aid has been granted to 45 young reindeer owners, girls and boys — note, women are also involved in young people who have begun. So it is good that we still have young people who are interested in this industry. But then there is still a little work to be done on the way in which this issue of support for the start-up of reindeer husbandry is handled — it is not possible to start in the moment, it is possible to start growing into reindeer husbandry, which means that the herd is being raised from a very young age — how it goes that it does not lose the right to support it when it has slowly grown up and has been able to build up enough reindeer. The debt arrangement was now omitted from this law. It does not matter in itself, because when it came and was built, there was an acute need, and I have the impression that no bigger activities are needed to handle it. But then I think there is such a problem with this law, which was already the case when I was working on these financial matters in the municipality, in the office of the rural secretary I was working on these things: even then it was already said that it was a question of reindeer and natural financing, and this really only means funding for reindeer husbandry. Today... Other aspects of these changes to the law are now the age limit for reindeer support, which has now changed. So now is the first year when the age limit of 65 is no longer present. This age limit was lost at the same time as these age limits were also lost on the agricultural side. The abolition of this age limit, 65 years, is indeed a negative thing, as this prevents young people from continuing in the business sector. In other words, there is a huge and serious reduction in generational exchanges, and we need to think about whether we can find, for example, regulations relating to the Sámi culture, which would allow us to regain the 65-year-old age limit. Other legislation on reindeer husbandry: I wonder what it would make sense to start to shape the whole thing now, and these issues are mainly related to predatory matters. The first thing about it is this glutton regulation, which should be made quite first. We have enough money in the budgets to compensate for fraud, but it is not in anyone's interest to talk about compensation for fraud. Yes, we should talk about preventing damage, and none of us want that damage. And the first thing is the glutton regulation, which should now be implemented quickly, quickly. There is also the way in which we can reduce the number of bears. But these are the actions we're putting forward. Thank you for bringing this matter now to this border.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u89	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Maijala for her very good speech. Reindeer farming is indeed in crisis, and Parliament should also work together to resolve that crisis. This bill, as Mrs Majalak said in her speech, contains a number of positive changes, such as the possibility of an electronic search for support. One positive change is that the whole processing of these aid applications is now transferred to the Ely Centre in Lapland, which will then ensure equal treatment of aid applications throughout the reindeer management area. Further consideration of the matter should also ensure that, now that the derivatives regulations are being turned over, the comments of the working group on the reform of the law on the financing of reindeer husbandry and natural livelihoods are taken into account. However, I would like to raise a point of view on the draft law, which I consider to be somewhat problematic. It is Article 52 of the proposal, which states that negotiations are under way with the Sámi Parliament on the allocation of funds to reindeer husbandry and other natural activities. Of course, it is important that these issues are negotiated with the Sámi Parliaments, but it cannot be that one ethnic group among reindeer workers should be favoured, but that this funding should continue to be distributed equally, regardless of the herd's ethnicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u90	Madam President! First of all, of course, the fact that reindeer farming is only practised in Sweden and Finland in the European Union. Of course, it is regrettable to read that this is now being introduced from the Brussels Parliament, which may not be the most important reindeer management area, that the adaptation of the aid scheme to EU legislation will then mean certain cuts. Yes, the question has to be asked once again whether the European Union is providing for big enough things or too small. If a direct reference is made to page 34: the project must not be started before the application for aid is submitted, unless the EU Commission has given its consent. Is this one of the Commission's core tasks? But all the same, thank you to your previous colleagues for their contributions and for defending reindeer husbandry. Then I come from the southern edge of the reindeer farming area, where it is certainly different from Svukoski and Enontekiö. However, this is good for us too, but it is a very important industry, and it involves processing and therefore the business chain. With regard to what Mrs Maijala has raised, and also Mr Karnä has raised, about these natural industries — fisheries and forestry, together with reindeer husbandry — I also hope that we will now have the courage to look at this transversal entrepreneurship in rural areas and thus create even a few permanent jobs. But when it comes to reindeer husbandry and related agriculture and the natural economy, these are the local jobs we have that do not run away to China, but there are also some export products that are certain to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u91	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Mattila, for your excellent speech. Now that the minister is here, I will ask if it is possible to ask: We have also talked here about these natural industries, which are indeed an important element of this Polura legislation, and they have not been developed in the last few years. I personally see that part of the reason for this is that we have not even been able to think about creating a natural economy for young entrepreneurs in the last decades. Has the Minister studied the matter, and is it possible to start new natural businesses in Lapland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u92	There has been no request to speak, so will Minister Tiilikainen take three minutes to finish this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u93	Mr President! Indeed, this draft law, which is now under discussion, has been adopted because it will also be possible to grant these subsidies from the beginning of next year, even though, here, this period of EU aid is changing and, in essence, it seems that the right solutions have been found. How far will this law be applied? In fact, the forestry sector and the fisheries sector have their own support system and have been subject to other legislation. There is now no direct answer as to how, in the future, this issue of the natural economy should be widened. I look forward to seeing what the committee will say about this now when it comes to Parliament. Of course, good tips are always received on how to do things even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u94	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u95	Madam President! The Hunting Act does not define what is meant by the alienity of the species. Another key shortcoming in other legislation is that the concepts of alien species and invasive alien species have not been defined. The purpose of the Alien Species Regulation is to ensure that the Member States of the European Union prevent the introduction and spread of invasive alien species in a timely and consistent manner. The same Regulation also lays down measures to prevent and control the spread of alien species identified as harmful at Union level. I believe that all these issues are very important for the conservation of biodiversity alone. The national strategy for alien species has defined harmful and observed or locally harmful foreign soil punishers. Article 5 of the Hunting Act. Four harmful alien species have been included in the game species listed in the list: wild rabbit, canadian beaver, raccoon dog and mink. Of these, I focus mainly on raccoons and mink, because they are found almost throughout the country. The restrictions in Article 7(1) of the Foreign Species Regulation apply to intentional activities. According to paragraph 2 of the same Article, "Member States shall also take all necessary measures to prevent the accidental introduction or spread of alien species on the Union list". When it says that 'all the necessary measures', I do not believe that this has been done to prevent the spread of mink and raccoons, although much has already been done. Article 19 of the same Regulation requires Member States to have measures to minimise the harmful effects of invasive alien species on biodiversity, related ecosystem services and, where appropriate, human health or the economy. I also believe that there are measures if they are to be used. This requirement applies to alien species already widely spread within the territory of a Member State of the Union. Extensive distribution refers to an invasive alien species, according to Article 3 of the Regulation, the strain of which has already passed the self-maintenance phase, which has spread and settled in a large part of the potential distribution area where it can survive and reproduce. Such species include mink and raccoon — not to mention the deer fly. Measures to control invasive alien species under the Regulation include the eradication of the species, the control of its stock and the restriction of the spread of the species. These could easily be done for mink and raccoon dog. Mink and raccoon dog do very bad damage to the bird population and nesting waterfowl. The hunting of mink and raccoons is indeed a real nature conservation work that benefits not only game but also many other species belonging to Finland. Trapping and a good dog are still the most effective means of hunting them. There have been several campaigns in Finland to reduce the number of small-scale predators and to combat species. Nothing seems to work. The legislation on hunting should therefore be amended. Allowing artificial light to be used would make hunting more effective. The dog could then use the dog to ask the vulture and then use artificial light to stop them safely. Minki hunting should be targeted particularly at the archipelago and protected areas important for the water fortress, including nature reserves. Mr President! Even in the '80s, the skins of small predators were well priced and were quite a sought after fur game. The Turkhunters also bought the specimens that were caught alive. Today, hunting is mainly game management. At the moment, too many hunters let small beasts lie because hunting them is not very productive. The benefit of skin is not great, and natural skin is not much appreciated. If small predators could be better exploited, hunters could be more encouraged to hunt small predators. In my opinion, the hunting for mink and raccoon dog should be paid for, for example, a EUR 5 game management premium per small predator. This would further increase hunting enthusiasm for small predators and would, in particular, allow many unemployed and young hunters to earn more. In Finland, the carcasses of over 150,000 raccoon dogs caught annually could also be used as biofuel. This would be especially the lean leather underfat. After all, one of the key projects in the Government Programme is to be a pioneer in the exploitation of biofuels. Why not on this too? Even a deer fly has become a foreign species from Russia. I wonder who would do something about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u96	Madam President! I must thank Mr Kulmala for his excellent speech. As has been said, this law on the management of the risks of alien species is indeed necessary. Foreign species are the major extinction factor of indigenous species in Europe and cause major economic damage. In the context of further reflection on the matter, I think it is important that we consider the possibility of extending the selection of alien species by allowing artificial light to be used in fishing. This would make hunting for mink and raccoons easier. Representative Mr Kulmala also raised the issue of this game management premium. It would be important to move on to a type of catch compensation system, particularly for the Supper and Mink, which would make this hunting economically viable. And of course it is positive if we could even use the products as biofuels. This bill defines as alien species species species included in the European Union list of alien species. However, we have been informed from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that, according to preliminary data, mink would not be registered on this list. I would like to express my heartfelt wish to the Minister that Finland should now make every effort in the negotiations to include the mink on the list of alien species in the European Union, and that this law also affects it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u97	Madam President! The general reasoning of the draft law states: "Guest species may threaten original species by competing with them for the same resources, by hunting, spreading diseases and parasites or by natural cross-breeding with them." In Finland, hybrids, hybrids of wolf and dog, whose behavior differs from that of both of their ancestors, have been identified with certainty. It has not been possible to determine their origin, but it is known that male wolves are farmed in Russia for fur purposes and are also trained for sled dog use. It is possible that the male wolves that escaped from the gardens have crossed with the wolves and so on. Hunters, many responsible animal scientists and at least the Finnish Kennel Federation consider male wolves dangerous in the human environment. Inheritance of male wolf characteristics is difficult to predict, and some male wolves can behave unpredictablely. At least there are people in the United States who have even died from male wolf bites. Hence, male wolves are banned animals in many states of the United States and also in our neighbor Sweden. In my opinion, a wild male wolf is not part of the Finnish nature and must therefore be removed as a harmful alien species. Some responsible hunters have removed hybrids from the wild, but the removal is problematic, since the removal of hybrids is often confused with the removal of a genuine wolf, and therefore the police are launching a long and costly preliminary investigation, usually called a serious hunting crime. This is why it is essential to add wolf and dog hybrids to the law. If the hybrid cannot be added to the law, it is absolutely necessary to mention it in a regulation specifying the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u98	Madam President! When you look at this bill here — and at the latest when you listen to these honourable speeches from previous representatives — you have to stop saying that the bill is really necessary. I understand in that way that this bill is also rather linked to European legislation, and so I understand that it is necessary to ensure at national level that these EU regulations do not jeopardise any Finnish business activity. I suppose one example of this could be the planting and rearing of dots, but it is really a matter of national interests to take care of in this regard too. It is indeed necessary to combat and prevent the spread of alien species, and prevention is, of course, the cheapest and most effective way of doing this. Of course, sufficient resources and funding must be provided for this prevention. And when the minister is there, the situation must always be taken advantage of, and I would like to ask when the minister is also aware of this bill: how do you think about the adequacy and need of the resources needed to combat this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u99	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u100	Mr President! There's always a shortage of money, and I'm sure there's a shortage here. In other words, there is no prospect of any more money being made available for the implementation of this law now, but, as Members have said here, this is necessary. Mr Kulmala's presentation, where he broadly described this harmfulness of raccoon dog and mink to Finnish nature, was a good review, and these are definitely the alien species most harmful to our nature here from the animal side. Then, of course, we have very awkward alien species, like these giant tubes, including lupin to some extent, because it is really difficult to destroy and remove them when they get out. Mrs Korhonen mentioned, and this was really such a concern — since we have this crab farm very far based on spotted crab, because the river crab has lost most of the waters due to decay — that what is the relationship between this EU list of alien species and our crab? The matter has been happily resolved. So even though this spot is on this list, we do not even have to actively try to destroy it, but we can limit it by eating if we now say so. In other words, it is still possible to catch and exploit spotted ray. Of course, from the very Finnish point of view, we must do everything we can to ensure that the river crab is preserved and that the decay does not spread to new waters. In this regard, we will probably need to update our crab strategy a little bit, but the good thing is that crabs and spotted crab fishing can continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u101	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u102	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u103	Madam President! A good government only makes necessary legislative proposals, and so does this bill. After all, the water-free countries affected by this bill have been a relatively big problem. Their position has been very unclear in terms of ownership and, in many cases, this unclear ownership has also affected these owners of neighbouring properties. All in all, this performance with such a quick browsing looks good. Perhaps there are, in quotes, a few minor ambiguities within the paragraphs, which I am sure will then be clarified in committee. This law also seems to include entries for real estate deliveries, and it must now be said that these entries are very positive, at least to the extent that there is an attempt to reduce the cost of these real estate supplies, and, of course, here we must hope that these reduced costs of real estate supplies will not only be borne by the authorities, but will also be able to benefit the customers themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u104	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u105	Mr President! The profitability of agriculture has fallen to a very low level in the current year — a well-informed group of representatives in the Chamber will certainly know those reasons — and that is why, in the context of the funds available, efforts have also been made to address this problem of profitability. There were national crisis packages in the EU, which, of course, were very modest in terms of losses, but every million is always welcome in this situation. In its additional budget in September, the government allocated 20 million additional appropriations to deal with this crisis of agricultural profitability, and now this draft law is the answer to how these crisis funds can be allocated specifically to indebted and invested holdings, because it was the focus of this amending budget decision: helping the most heavily indebted and newly invested farms in this difficult situation. There are many very well-informed representatives on the list of speakers, so I am not going to go into detail here, because unfortunately I am also going to have to leave the debate myself. But this debate is undoubtedly in good hands in this Chamber. As far as the issue of the cash crisis in agriculture is concerned, it was decided by that decision of the EU Agriculture Council, at the same time as these national crisis packages, that it would be possible to pay increased subsidies in order to facilitate the liquidity of farmers. This decision was taken in mid-September, and as much as we have been criticised — on the subject and without cause — in this country, so Finland and that EU Commission acted quickly together, and about three weeks after this decision of the Council of Ministers, it was possible to account for the farmers' accounts for the extra EUR 50 million of these Ifa payments that would have been possible before this decision. So, at this point, this was perhaps the most important thing to ease the liquidity situation for farmers, and now, later, in the course of the rest of the year, there will be some more of these increased advances. This bill actually creates the framework and the rules of the game by which this national crisis support is now targeted at indebted and newly-invested farms. This is a very welcome measure. While, of course, money is always limited, I am pleased that, in this tight economic situation, this kind of money has been able to be decoupled, and now it will certainly be rapidly completed in legislation, so that payments can also begin under this law as soon as possible. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u106	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Tiilikainen for the rapid introduction of this proposal to Parliament. The darker side, then, is the scarcity of money, which the minister himself has said is EUR 29 million. It should be enough to remedy the economic situation of the indebted and invested farmers and then also to deal with the problems of these Russian sanctions: half of them would now go to this indebtedness and half would go to the Russian sanctions. We do indeed have the situation that there are quite a lot of young, rather deeply indebted farmers, and if now this kind of farmer unfortunately can get just a few thousand euros in this grant probably, at best, then it will not of course fix the situation very much. It would be hoped that there could be a further extension of this indebtedness in the course of time. These Russian sanctions also appear to be inexorably in force until next summer at least, and if the milk producer is now counted per litre — in the south, of course, it is paid on an animal-by-animal basis — that is less than half an cent per litre, then I do not think that summer is going to happen either. And the production of pork is in quite a lot of liquidity difficulties. Of course, we should be happy to receive EU aid which does not have the ceiling of EUR 15000 for three years set by the de minimis aid. But thank you, Minister Tiilikainen. This was a positive surprise that this crisis package was adopted so quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u107	Mr President! As the Minister has said here, the alarmingly poor profitability of agriculture has led to the need for such specific support. And, as the Minister also said, the best thing about this current situation is that these delays or delays in payments that have come into effect during the previous government have now been brought back to a faster rhythm. And, as the Minister said, subsidies could be paid at higher levels than was known in the early autumn. Special thanks to the Minister for his prompt action in demanding an increase in the percentage of aid advances. And I would also like to thank the government, as has been said above, for putting together the necessary funds for this crisis package, and especially for the fact that this proposal has now come so quickly to our attention. The show itself is good in its entirety. In fact, its only weakness is its inclusion in de minimis aid, which excludes some of the applicants who otherwise meet the criteria for aid. This is a very difficult issue for a small part of the farms that have been in debt or have recently invested, but, as far as I know, there is no other way of paying for this aid than this de minimis scheme. I welcome the fact that the aid is based on the 2010 crisis support clause. It will also ensure its support for compliance with EU law and thus rapid payment. And you cannot overemphasize that it is precisely this fast payment that is the key here. Thank you again, Minister Tiilikainen, for your prompt action on aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u108	Madam President! After excellent speeches, there is very little left to say, but I too would like to thank the Minister and the Government for their very swift and good work. It is now important to get this law through Parliament quickly and support for payment. I would also like to remind this House that viable primary production is in fact the basis for the whole state's security policy, and now that farmers are in crisis, it is extremely important that the government has responded to it with the seriousness it deserves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u109	Madam President! The poor profitability of farms, poor liquidity is a fact of life, and the problem here is that these reasons are outside farms, international and so on. In any case, in view of the situation of farms, this government proposal is indeed urgent, indeed necessary. I also see that it makes sense, of course, that this aid should now be allocated on the basis of the relative indebtedness of the farms. I think it is important that the aid is now being paid in a targeted way specifically to investors and indebted farms. Of course, what has already been said here in other speeches is that these funds are very modest in relation to the farm crisis, and it is, of course, important that these subsidies can be paid as soon as possible. However, as Mr Kiviranta has said here, the crisis in farms is so deep that this crisis support does not provide any big positive solution, and it is therefore extremely important that we try to find other, separate solutions for these badly indebted farms in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u110	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u111	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u112	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u113	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on special care for people with mental disabilities. Changes would be made to the law required for the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Currently, there is only a general provision in the Disability Act on the use of restrictive measures. However, measures restricting fundamental rights have been used in special care without more specific legal provisions that safeguard the human rights of people who are wholly dependent on the care of vulnerable people. The process of ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has brought improvements to the situation of people with disabilities. For example, everyone can now live wherever they want. In 2012, a decision in principle on the safeguarding of individual housing and services for people with mental disabilities was received. The objective of the housing programme is to phase out institutional housing by 2020 and offer individual housing solutions. The national plan states that legislation on the strengthening of the self-determination of persons with disabilities has a key objective of promoting the self-determination of customers and minimising the use of restrictive measures. Article 14 of the UN CRPD guarantees equal access for persons with disabilities to the right to personal freedom and security. It states that the Contracting Parties must ensure that persons with disabilities are not subjected to illegal or arbitrary deprivation of liberty. Any deprivation of liberty must take place legally. In any case, disability does not in itself justify deprivation of liberty. The Government proposal now before us proposes to amend the provisions of the Act on the limitation of self-determination. The previous draft law raised a great deal of concern for people with mental disabilities and their families. There was much restriction on freedoms in the draft law. The general view was that the imposition of restrictive measures could be interpreted as justification for the use of force, which was feared to lead to an increase in the use of restrictive measures in special care. As a result of the feedback received, the nature was changed, the importance of self-determination was emphasised and a number of restrictive measures were removed. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal before us states this: "Restrictive measures could only be invoked under the conditions laid down by law where it is necessary to protect the health or safety of a person or another person in special care or to prevent significant damage to property. The restrictive measures provided for in the law would include retention, possession of substances and articles, personal examination and short-term separation. The use of other restrictive measures would not be allowed. The independent performance of persons with disabilities in service housing must be regarded as a general rule and the use of restrictive measures is not justified on their part. The scope of the provisions on restrictive measures was thus limited only to the units of enhanced service housing and institutional services." I hope that the committee in its deliberations will hear widely from the various parties involved and in its report to ensure that no human being is mistreated, that no one is unduly tied up with medicines or ties. The right of self-determination of the law must be a law that protects persons. When it is decided to proceed through the Act on Mental Impairment, it is necessary to ensure a similar section on self-determination for other completely dependent persons, such as memory-disordered or brain-damaged patients. The entry into force of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has long been awaited. The agreement will safeguard the rights of people with disabilities in education and employment, give them access to decisions affecting them, ensure the necessary adjustments and accessibility. It is a central human rights treaty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u114	Mr President! Finland has already signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007. This agreement was approved by Parliament last March, but it is still not ratified. When adopting this Convention, Parliament, in its statement last winter, required that national legislation be brought to the level of compliance with the conditions of Article 14 of the Convention. Mr Karimäki mentioned Article 14 above. It says that persons with disabilities enjoy the right to personal freedom and security in a consistent manner with others and are not subject to illegal or arbitrary deprivation of liberty. Mr President! Do we have this in Finland? Finnish social welfare and health care personnel are well-trained and competent people. I have been working in health care for nearly four decades and I dare to assure you that this is the case, and that the staff can also be very empathetic towards people with disabilities. However, I have also seen the most extraordinary restrictions on the freedom of people with disabilities. We know that some people who are considered disabled are completely self-employed, but some of them need help almost every moment. At times a disabled person may be very challenging in his conduct and may cause harm and danger to himself as well as to others. I've seen situations like this. Mr President! The problem is that Finnish legislation has not been precise in these matters, to which Article 14 of this Convention refers. The Government has chosen the solution for the correction of the Disability Act. The previous government had put forward a proposal to correct the law on the status and rights of the social customer, but that law did not have time to be completed in the spring. Article 32 is corrected in this legislative proposal 'which, as it stands, is, in fact, even unconstitutional when it allows for the most vague grounds for deprivation of liberty. Several other wordings of the current Act on Mental Impairment will be corrected, but the most important from the point of view of the fundamental rights of disabled persons are Article 42 of the new Act. a number of amendments and additions to be made to the common position. These changes clarify and clarify the right of the disabled person to self-determination, possibly restricting it in different situations. After the entry into force of this law, people who care for and care for people with disabilities can rely directly on the law and its wording and regulations. There will also be clarity in the appeal against these decisions. The changes in the law aim to ensure that any restriction of liberty is always, always, a last resort for protecting either the disabled or those around him. Mr President! This is good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u115	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on special care for people with mental disabilities. The measures proposed are necessary because at present there are very limited and inadequate articles in the law from the point of view of the self-determination of the mentally disabled. The law on limiting and strengthening the self-determination of the customer and patient in social and health care was prepared to a great extent during the last period. Unfortunately, however, the law failed at the end of the parliamentary term, but the preparation of the law must continue as a matter of urgency on the basis of the preparation of the last term. A so-called self-determination law is needed and would apply to categories of customers with reduced cognitive capacity. It is estimated that it means around 23,000 people with memory disorders and a few thousand persons with mental disabilities in Finland. In the proposal before us, we will first improve the rights of people with disabilities, which is, of course, important, but a significant number of people with memory problems are unfortunately excluded from the law. The preparation must take into account the fact that fundamental human rights can only be restricted if this is necessary. It is good that the legislation on self-determination is very detailed and can also regulate in very detail, for example, the locking of doors, the tying of beds and situations in which people are opposed to such things as washing and eating. It is now important that the regulations be extended not only to people with mental disabilities but also to people with memory disorders, because there are currently no clear provisions in Finland restricting and strengthening the fundamental rights of these people. On the other hand, these regulations would also strengthen the registrations for those who are caring and would give back to doing the work. It is worth noting that, due to inadequate regulations, people with disabilities or memory disorders at the moment may even be prevented from moving on grounds of safety. Thus, many elderly people are excluded from the health effects of outdoor activities, for example. After all, outdoor activities have been shown to be physical and mental health and well-being activities that reduce the incidence of infections and reduce the anxiety of memory disorders and also the feeling of pain. In the future, it is therefore particularly important to raise people's awareness of opportunities for outdoor activities and of the benefits, resources and costs associated with outdoor activities, and should also be included as elements of self-determination. In spite of the good and important will of the legislators, when I look at these additions or the draft law on self-determination of the last period, it has to be said that unfortunately the concrete steps taken by the law to strengthen self-determination are very modest. On the other hand, important reforms, such as the outsourcing I have just mentioned, have not been added to the right to self-determination. On the other hand, I do not know how to guarantee and strengthen self-determination in the future if, for example, the government's planned staffing bills are realised. Looking at the points that will strengthen and limit self-determination in the future, the problem arises from the fact that regulations apply to people in the most diverse situations. Should the law spell out even more clearly the guidelines on what is decent treatment and how this self-determination can be supported in a positive way? The law must not focus on the regulation of restrictive measures against people, but on the main objective of reducing the restriction of vulnerable people and the implementation of human rights. However, these proposals are a good start and important and necessary for the whole and the continuation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u116	Mr President! The adoption of this bill will enable Finland to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is important that we finally get this thing right. The aim is to strengthen the autonomy and independence of persons in special care and to reduce the use of restrictive measures. In practice, the use of restrictive measures varies widely between different care communities, as it is often a question of the culture of the work community, of the skills and skills of workers and, in particular, of attitudes. I am very much in favour of this bill, but at the same time I hope that the broader self-determination law that is being prepared will come before Parliament quickly. The legislative work started last season stopped in the Constitutional Committee at the very last metres. This is a matter of urgency, because, for example, there is much unnecessary restriction of self-determination in the treatment of people with memory disorders. It should be borne in mind that the use of unnecessary sedatives is also a chemical restriction, and these measures, in particular in the case of memory disorders, are widely used. No law alone safeguards the exercise of self-determination, but the law provides the right direction and framework conditions for professional activities. Real changes can only be achieved by changing the culture of working communities and ensuring the skills and skills of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u117	Mr President! This government proposal to amend the law on special care for people with mental disabilities is warmly welcomed. I can say that this is a day of joy that we have received this government proposal for Parliament. These amendments make it possible to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We've been waiting for this for a long time. That convention means ensuring equality for people with disabilities and stating that a ban on all forms of discrimination takes place. In all EU countries, this agreement has already been ratified, only in Finland, Ireland and the Netherlands, and it is indeed an honour issue for us in the Finnish Parliament that this bill can be taken forward. As Mr Karimäki said here, it was a good thing that disability organisations, various actors were consulted and indeed this bill was amended to include provisions for measures to support self-determination and self-determination and to reduce the use of restrictive measures in such a way as to impose general conditions for the use of those restrictive measures. This is the right starting point, which is to reduce the number of forced measures and make it possible for everyone to live as normal as possible. It is very important that we go through this carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and we are still wondering whether these regulations really are sufficient. I would also like to say that, in other respects, the legislation on mental disabilities is to be reformed in the context of the project to reform the specific legislation on social care for people with disabilities. This is an important and supported project. In addition, the preparation of a comprehensive reform of the social care customer, patient autonomy and the conditions for the use of restrictive measures is to be continued as a separate project, so that those with memory problems and, for example, those with brain damage as an adult will also be covered by this ratification. This is the preparation I really want to tighten up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u118	Madam President! I came to the toilet to thank my fellow Members for their good contributions. Representatives Sarkomaa and Keränen made good, expert speeches, as did representatives Nurminen and Mäkisalo-Ropponen, who pointed out in particular the importance of the status of people with memory disorders and the fact that good care includes humanity and dignity and that we also need to improve self-determination for all people, as the reform of the Social and Health Care Act would have meant in the last period. But the happy thing is that, as Mr Sarkomaa also pointed out, this law will enable us to finally ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This has been a very long journey. After all, this UN Convention is based on human rights agreements. It was in preparation at the UN from 2002 to 2006, and even then Finnish disability organisations were involved in the preparation of national positions. Finland negotiated as part of the EU countries, as one in its entirety, and even as the country holding the Presidency in 2006, when the Convention was adopted, the fact that we are among the last EU countries that have not yet ratified the Treaty – in fact, there are only three EU countries left without the last ratification – is a partial disgrace to us. But we can be glad that we have wanted to bring legislation to the level of the Treaty before ratification has been completed. The agreement is extremely important for people with disabilities and their loved ones: it enables people with disabilities to be involved in decisions affecting them. In particular, disability organisations are looking forward to the implementation of this Article. Article 2 of the Agreement defines reasonable adjustments at the workplace in order to enable people with disabilities to work as well. Accessibility and accessibility are also highlighted in the agreement, and in fact they are highlighted in such a way that they bring new rights and opportunities to improve accessibility into Finnish practice. Women and children with disabilities are also given special consideration in the UN CRPD, as are education and employment issues. Education belongs to everyone who wants it. The implementation of the Convention will also be subject to international monitoring, and in this respect the NGOs will also report in parallel. We also have the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Human Rights Centre involved in monitoring national implementation, so we can ensure that human rights for people with disabilities are more firmly realised when we ratify the Treaty. Finland has signed the agreement in 2007 and, as many representatives remember, during the last term, we also adopted in Parliament the legislation on it and also the effort to ensure that the question of self-determination should also be brought into good shape before the ratification of the Treaty. The law has moved towards the level of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In 2011, changes were made to the Local Government Act, which allows disabled persons to live wherever they wish. We made changes to the Social Welfare Act, which improved their position in basic services. In 2015, we achieved an adequate level of equality legislation. And now that this final touch, the right to self-determination for people with mental disabilities, is in order, we can put this agreement into effect once and for all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u119	Madam President! Indeed, it is a big day coming up when the UN Treaty for the mentally disabled can gradually be ratified. For my part, too, I would like to thank you for the very good contributions and also for the very close cooperation with the mother of the disabled child. With interest, we looked forward to the provisions on self-determination and self-determination, for example, and on the one hand to special care independent of this will, because they involve issues such as concerns and fears as to the way in which things are presented in the articles of law. It has to be said that, when I read these articles together and read them together, it was a pleasure to note that we have had good drafting of the law and that this text — the rights of persons with disabilities and also this autonomy, the issues connected with it, and also the special care that is independent of will and that disability as such is not a basis for imposing special care that is independent of the person’s will — is good, and I would say, from the field, and I would also like to thank you for this Chamber. The second point I would like to raise here, also with regard to children with disabilities, is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which therefore also affects children with disabilities. I would also like to point out here that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child contributes to ensuring equal treatment of children, including children with disabilities. On the basis of the Convention, the best interests of the child must be taken into account as a matter of priority in public action on children. Both parents have a primary responsibility to care for the child’s care and upbringing. The agreement also provides for the right of the child to live primarily with his or her parents and based on the best interests of the child to be able to separate the child from his or her parents. In addition, States Parties will ensure that children have the opportunity to express their views on their own development in matters relating to themselves. The child also has the right to privacy,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u120	Mr President! Last season I followed closely and closely the preparation of the self-determination law, and I am delighted to say that the thinking has changed. In fact, it changed over the last season. After all, the first version of this bill came from how self-determination can be restricted, and those restrictive measures were at the heart of that first version. Then gradually this bill has changed, as it can be seen here, and now the starting point is how self-determination can be supported and made possible. I very much hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will look carefully once again at the fact that this support and the possibility of self-determination is certainly at the heart of the fact that there will be no point of conflict with this fundamental principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u121	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u122	Mr President! The most important aspect of this bill is to strengthen patient safety, and the second is to promote the mobility of professionals. From the point of view of patient safety, language skills are essential. This bill is therefore to be welcomed, but I have not yet been able to examine the content very carefully — so I will not comment on it either. If the Minister had been present, I would have asked whether the rehabilitation counselors have been taken into account in this bill, and I would like the committee to consider whether there should be some way in which this law should also be given the status of rehabilitation counselors. Mr President! I would like to raise another important point, even though it goes a little past or aside this bill: the competence of professionals is important and it is good that it is clearly defined, but the definition of the qualifications of teachers of health professionals is much more vague at the moment. Universities and universities of applied sciences are relatively free to determine who will teach future professionals. In my opinion, self-regulation works relatively well in universities, but unfortunately I know even now polytechnics in which nursing students are taught, for example, by a chemist or bioanalyst, who have no idea or experience of the work of a nurse — and now I am not talking about general subjects, but I am talking specifically about the professional subjects, the basic work that that nurse does. I think it is right to ask what competence a chemist can use to teach nursing nurses to come. I think that this is something on which we should consider some regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u123	Honorable Speaker! The draft law under discussion is part of the implementation of the amendments to the Professional Qualifications Directive in Finland, and indeed the purpose of this proposal is to improve the system of recognition of professional qualifications, to promote the mobility of professionals, to promote patient safety and indeed to strengthen the position of patients and customers in health care. This is something that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health need to look into very carefully. I would like to point out that there are issues here that I particularly wish to raise, such as the partial right of access to the profession. We know that there are indeed differences between EU and EEA countries in areas of competence in social and health care education and that this granting of a partial right to self-employment to healthcare professionals in Finland must be very carefully considered. That is what we are working on in committee. In particular, I welcome the fact that testing language skills could also be imposed on EU and EEA citizens when the task has an impact on patient safety. This is the expected reform in Finland, and indeed language skills could be checked when professional qualifications have otherwise been recognised. I also think it is important to ensure that language skills are ensured before granting the right to take up a profession or a professional title, which is what I would like to see here. I also consider the introduction of this electronic alarm system to be important as the mobility of healthcare-related workers increases. This is an important issue. Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to an important issue, namely this continuing professional development, which is part of this implementation of the directive. It is very important that health professionals are able to update their knowledge, skills and qualifications regularly during their working lives and not only within the professions covered by automatic identification. And it is good to consider the need to specify qualitative and quantitative recommendations in the context of continuing training while reviewing this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u124	Mr President! This law proposes a number of elements specifically designed to promote the competence of health professionals, strengthen professional qualifications, and it is also important to increase patient safety. These issues are already mentioned here, namely this European Professional Card, ensuring language skills, an electronic alert system and continuing professional development. The problem with this Professional Qualifications Directive is that it is also intended to provide for this partial right of access to the profession, which means that a person is not allowed to engage in all activities relating to the profession but has a limited right to exercise his duties. As a former head of a large unit, I can say from experience that it is absolutely impossible to monitor the activities of such people if that were the case. When this monitoring does not work, it also means that this will easily have negative effects on patient safety, and we certainly do not want to make such decisions here in Finland. Among other things, the Association of Doctors, the Association of Pharmacies and Tehy have taken a position in these own statements that such a partial right of employment is not suitable for the representatives of the professions they represent, and I hope now that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will also consider what this partial right of employment would mean in practice in our health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u125	Madam President! Mr Laitinen-Pesola's points of view, the points he has raised are very important and essential, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will certainly need to think carefully about how to propose them to be put forward in the law. There were a lot of good things about this. One of the things I would like to raise is, in my view, very easy to implement and very important, in other words this revision of the language skills of EU and EEA citizens. However, we have a patient-doctor relationship, a health care relationship between the patient and the carers, between different professionals, which is very important that the communication is properly understood on both sides. And especially if we think that we want to have a patient at the heart of the matter — patient-oriented health care, where the patient becomes properly seen and heard and understood — it is very important that there is sufficient language skills, not only in certain theoretical language issues, but also that it is good enough in the practical communication, taking into account, among other things, the many dialects of Finns and the expression skills of people of different ages. All in all, I think it is very good that this matter has been dealt with and dealt with in greater detail, but I would see that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should then consider and look more closely at the way in which these are defined. But a welcome bill overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u126	Mr President! I would just like to thank Mr Laitinen-Pesola for raising this very important issue, because if the objective is indeed to maintain and improve patient safety, then this partial right to self-employment does not fit most of the health professions. It is a question of patient safety, but it is also a question of the sensible organisation of work in the workplace there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u127	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u128	Madam President! The current proposal limits the transitional period to the obligation to retain more than five firearms in a safe or in storage facilities approved by the police. The most important thing, however, is always to ensure that the gun does not fall into the wrong hands, be it one or more. This is something a responsible hunter, a reservist or a gun enthusiast already understands. There's nothing new about it for them. However, I welcome the fact that a transitional period has been allowed five years for the purchase of a safe. If the Government Decree on the safety requirements for the manufacture, handling and storage of explosives, 1101/2015, its Article 41, had entered into force as presented, it would also have imposed a completely unreasonable and unnecessary 30-minute fire protection requirement for the storage of all cartridges at home. It is therefore a good thing that the regulation is being recast. It is not just anyone who owns weapons and ammunition that has a fire safety cabinet already purchased — more than half a million Finns currently keep their fire safety cabinets. A safety cabinet that could be used for storing weapons would not have been possible if it had not been to show the fire protection on it. In practice, combined burglary and fire protection is only in very expensive combination cabinets, which, depending on the size of the gun cabinet, cost several thousand euros. Even a fire safety cabinet of sufficient size for the storage of cartridges costs several hundred dollars. I do not consider this 30-minute fire protection requirement necessary for weapons and cartridges to be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u129	Madam President! The provisions of the current Firearms Act require the acquisition of an approved safe for ten thousand licence holders. Now, the Government’s new bill tightens the regulation on conservation, so that both particularly dangerous firearms and more than five firearms must be kept in a safe room in accordance with the Ministry of the Interior Regulation or in storage facilities approved by the police individually. Mr President! When the price of safety cabinets is estimated at about EUR 400 per cabinet, this means a total cost of approximately EUR 24 million. As far as costs are concerned, it would be appropriate to ensure that the government's coordinates and criteria are in place. I suspect that is not the case. In 2002, when some security operators clarified the matter when they also discussed EN standard 14450, they received the following statement from the Finnish Insurance Federation: "The protection of burglars in accordance with this test is so low that the insurance industry will hardly take into account the storage units in accordance with this test in its guidance. We have reservations about the usefulness of the products tested under this standard proposal. For comparison purposes, we follow the SFS-EN 1143-1 classifications of the standard for value storage units in such a way that products of the two lowest classes are not accepted as a value storage unit." This standard SFS 5870 was originally made according to the Swedish standard to meet the requirements of the new Arms Act for weapons classified as hazardous. Looking at the situation in Sweden, they also seem to have a national cabinet standard, which is SS3492,and this is "Säkerhetsskåp—Provningochutvänderingavinbrottsskydd". The debate on the equivalence of this standard in Sweden already concluded in 2005 that EN 14450 does not meet police requirements for weapons cabinets. Mr President! To this I say to the members of the Administrative Committee: take account of these different standards, that they meet the criteria that are actually being applied for. I strongly doubt that this is the case, and I can say that I have 20 years of experience in the field of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u130	Madam President! The amendments to the Firearms Act have often been discussed in this Chamber, and once again there is a proposal to amend the entry into force rule so that the five-year transitional period would apply to the retention of more than five firearms. It is a good thing in this government proposal that the transitional period is five years, but, as we have just heard, this issue of the fire safe is questionable in this proposal, and I hope that the Administrative Committee will pay particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u131	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u132	Mr President! During the last period, a new law on accidents at work and occupational diseases was adopted, which applies to employment, employment and entrepreneurship. This law will enter into force at the beginning of next year, and even when this law was decided, it was stated that the legislation should be supplemented in the future with family carers, carers, those involved in rehabilitating work. Now I would like to thank the government for bringing this bill to the House so quickly. The above-mentioned categories are now also covered by the appropriate occupational disease and accident law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u133	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 16th of the order of business. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u134	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u135	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. In this context, the 18th item of the agenda will also be allowed to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u136	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u137	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u138	Mr President! One of the main objectives of the government is the dismantling of standards, and that is what this government proposal 84 is all about. It is a good thing that in future we will only have two types of tractor driving licence: a traditional tractor driving licence with a maximum tractor speed of 40 km per hour is a so-called ‘T’ driving licence, and a driving licence for a road tractor with a maximum speed of 60 km is a driving licence for an LT tractor. In order to get this licence at 16 years of age, you have to take a theoretical and processing test. That is what I consider to be very good and important. Tractors who travel more than 60 kilometers an hour will then need a driver’s license. However, I would like to draw attention to this paragraph in this proposal: 'The driver of a tractor would be required to have the professional qualifications of a lorry driver within the meaning of the Act on the Professional Qualification of Drivers of Trucks and Bus Drivers if driving a tractor requires a driving licence for a lorry'. So it's about these big tractors that run more than 60 kilometers an hour. I am a little surprised that even when driving an empty tractor, there should be a professional qualification. Isn't a driver's license alone enough? I find this somewhat contradictory and I hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will take this into account in its deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u139	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u140	The 21st item will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u141	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u142	The 23rd item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u143	The 24th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u144	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u145	Madam President! The entrepreneurial reduction promised to business names and partnerships in the Government Programme will not take place at least next year. That is not in the draft budget of the Ministry of Finance for next year. There are about 130,000 enterprises in Finland that are subject to entrepreneurial deductions. Of these, around 7%, or 9,000, have declared themselves to be highly growth-oriented and thus potential creators of new jobs. Small businesses employ not only by hiring their own workers, by networking with other small enterprises, and by increasing employment as well. Madam President! That is why the Christian Democrats have tabled a bill in which we propose to reduce the tax burden on shareholders, traders and agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs of private companies by making the result of their business activity a 5% reduction in self-employment. Indeed, the reduction in corporation tax on limited liability companies that entered into force during the previous government did not benefit at all passenger companies and traders. The taxation of personal enterprises is also more strained than that of employees in the corresponding income brackets. Entrepreneurship reduction would be a fair and employment-enhancing reform. The Board of Directors of Katainen decided on changes to corporate and dividend taxation. The changes that came into force from the beginning of 2014 aimed at strengthening business growth and encouraging the creation of new jobs. Efforts to improve the business environment were welcome and encouraged, as new jobs are created in private companies. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 20% and the retention of the entrepreneur's dividend tax largely on a one-off basis and lower than the general capital tax will strengthen the prospects for SME growth in the medium term. However, the changes made concern limited companies only and do not take into account partnerships and traders. This means that smaller companies will not be encouraged, even though they are the ones with the greatest potential for growth in terms of employment. In order for entrepreneurship policy to take account of the different forms of enterprise on an equal footing, the taxation of private companies and businesses must also be changed in a more encouraging direction. This can be achieved by creating a reduction in the tax burden on passenger companies and traders by making the result of these businesses a 5% reduction in the rate of self-employment. This reduction would narrow the gap between the taxation of passenger companies and traders and the taxation of limited liability companies and would also provide smaller companies with better opportunities for growth and employment. According to the calculation made by the Parliamentary Information Service in autumn 2015, a 5 per cent entrepreneurial reduction would reduce tax revenues by a total of EUR 131 million. In the calculation, the entrepreneurial income deduction has been made directly from gross income. However, the positive effects of the reform on public finances have not been taken into account when calculating the reduction in tax revenues. In our view, entrepreneurship reduction would significantly increase economic activity, encouraging business activity and enabling business expansion. In the longer term, the introduction of entrepreneurship reduction would reduce the cost of public finances for managing unemployment and increase tax revenue through increased business and economic activity. Therefore, entrepreneurship reduction would be a reform for growth and employment, which would also improve the sustainability of public finances in the longer term. Madam President! In view of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: "Amendment of the Law In accordance with the Parliament’s decision, a new 31a§ is added to the Income Tax Act 1535/1992,as follows:In Part III,the deductions and deductions from revenue are added to Chapter 1General provisions are added31a§ Entrepreneurial deduction: The distribution of company income under Article 30 of this Act shall be reduced by 5% in the form of a reduction in entrepreneurial income."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u146	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u147	Madam President! The purpose of the Guarantee Pensions Act is to secure the livelihood of a pensioner living in Finland by paying a pension from state resources if his or her pensions are otherwise insufficient for a reasonable income. The size of the guarantee pension is affected by all other pensions received by the pensioner from Finland and abroad. A full guarantee pension is granted only to those who do not have any other pensions. Other pensions are deducted from the full amount of the guarantee pension. The amount of the guarantee pension is laid down in the Guarantee Pension Act and the guarantee pension is reviewed annually from the beginning of January, with the national pension index corresponding to the increase in costs. In 2015, the guarantee pension under Article 8 of the Guarantee Pensions Act amounts to EUR 746 and 57 cents per month. In connection with its draft budget, the Board of Directors proposes to increase the guarantee pension by EUR 23 per month, but even after the increase, the amount of the guarantee pension is not sufficient to safeguard the pensioner’s livelihood in accordance with the purpose of the Guarantee Pensions Act. The increase in the guarantee pension should take into account the low baseline and the impact of other government measures on the economy of the poorest pensioners. In addition to the increase proposed by the Government, an additional increase in the guarantee pension is required. An additional increase of EUR 15 million could increase the guarantee pension by another EUR 10. The amount of the guarantee pension would therefore be estimated at EUR 777 in 2016. An obvious increase in guaranteed pensions would make it easier for the lowest-income pensioners to cope with everyday life. This affects more than 100,000 Finns, and a clear improvement in the purchasing power of more than 100,000 Finns would also stimulate economic growth. Madam President! In time, the welfare of the Finnish state has been initiated by hard work. Hard work, enduring Christian values, and caring for one’s neighbor have been the guiding principle that modern - day older people have followed. They have built this country into effort, energy, without counting all this, and many of these, I would say, often housewives, have raised children, a new generation, worked hard without pay. When we think about the amount of pension they have accumulated, it is all in all quite small. Guarantee pension is an issue that is still very small after the increase. In addition to the EUR 23 increase in the budget, the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group proposes an increase of EUR 10 in the guaranteed pension. This would mean that the amount of the guarantee pension in 2016 would be estimated at EUR 777. Madam President! We would like our bill to change Article 8 of the Guarantee Pension Act to be implemented. I'd say it's fair, to say the least. If we had more money, we would be proposing a much higher increase in the guarantee pension, but this would be the least, the least, the least, for those people who have done a really long time in the past, without counting their efforts on the welfare of this country and all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u148	The 27th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u149	Madam President! In a bill, the Christian Democratic Parliament proposes that the tobacco tax be increased by a total of EUR 70 million more than the government proposes in its draft budget. The level of tobacco tax under the Act would be set at the same level from the beginning of 2016 as indicated in the Government’s proposal as from 1 July 2017. In addition, it is proposed to tax electronic tobacco on the same basis as tobacco products. The bill for an increase in tobacco tax is included in the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group. Madam President! The harm to the individual is well known. The social impact is also very clear. A recent report by the National Institute for Health and Welfare entitled "The social costs of smoking and their assessment methods" estimates that smoking costs society about EUR 1.5 billion. The cost of society is due to the burden of health care, fires, sick leave, premature deaths and transfers, such as sickness allowances. Compared to the costs of smoking, the level of tobacco tax is currently too low. According to the 2014 financial statements, the tobacco tax generated approximately half of the costs incurred by the State. In its draft budget, the Government has proposed a step-by-step increase in the tobacco tax during 2016 and 2017. However, a faster tax increase is justified in view of the cost of tobacco and if the increase is to have as much effect as possible on the cessation of smoking. An increase in the tobacco tax on a faster schedule will increase illegal imports and sales. Adequate resources should be allocated to the authorities concerned to mitigate this phenomenon. The control of passenger imports must also be stepped up. Mr President! It is also important to take into account the health risks and effects of new nicotine products such as e-cigarettes. Nicotine itself increases blood pressure, stimulates pulses, and according to the latest data, also increases the risk of cancer. Under the new Tobacco Act, nicotine-containing e-cigarettes must be transferred under the pharmaceutical law to the tobacco legislation. For the prevention of smoking among young people, it is important that e-cigarettes should be subject to the same strict regulation as tobacco products and not be made more attractive by different flavourings. The use of nicotine in e-cigarettes should also be subject to a tax comparable to a high tobacco tax. Madam President! In view of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following draft law amending the Annex to the Tobacco Tax Act: in accordance with the Parliament's decision, the Annex to Law 1470/1994 on Tobacco Tax, as set out in Law 977/2014, is amended in accordance with the attached Annex.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-04-ps-58.u150	For table setting, the 28th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 5 November 2015.
