ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u1	The second item in the order of business is the supplementary elections of the committees. I note that the elections are unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The case was suspended on 11 September. (meeting of...), the European Economic and Social Committee
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u3	Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution studies poverty, exclusion and the growth of income differentials with great merit. Anyone who knows how to go after the euros paid from Kela will see what Finland is like, with its good and bad sides, these days. The EUR 14 billion paid shows a lot about how citizens live. Compared with the previous year, unemployment benefit benefits increased most, by around 15 per cent. Compared with the statistics in the Employment Survey, you can see that the situation of total unemployment has increased, but also that of young people and the long-term unemployed — even though these groups should be specific target groups, according to the Employment Services Act, where more chips and services are invested in improving the situation. Or at least this is what we should do. In connection with the exclusion of young people, Kela's delegates have taken a position on the right to information and access. The delegates hope that Kela will be required to provide information on income-free beneficiaries of housing allowance on its own initiative on persons aged 15 to 28. The data could be passed on to employment and economic development offices and to authorities in charge of detective youth work. There is also a desire to make similar changes to the Youth Act. Mr President! What, then, does the same Kela Annual Report state about the key findings of Kela's research in 2014? The 'Strengthening participation in working life' section states quite harshly that the positive effects of the social guarantee for young people on employment were limited and, if they were, targeted young people who had completed vocational education and training. [President MariaLohela : Premises and Black Lake,wait a moment. — I would ask the representatives to move these debates outside the Chamber in order to hear what the speaker has to say here. — Please continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u6	Madam President! Mr Mustajärvi criticised the efforts to make changes to unemployment security aimed at promoting the employment of persons. There has been a reduction in duration here, and, as Mr Mustajärvi said in his speech, the duration for young people has been reduced from 500 to 400 days. Mr Mustajärvi has justifiably argued that the changes made to unemployment benefit do not in any way create jobs. But, Mr Mustajärvi, do you really think that the changes to unemployment benefit do not have any effect on the employment of the unemployed? Now that we, together in this Parliament, have made provision for a EUR 300 contribution per month to unemployment benefit, studies already show that such people who are unemployed have found a lot of these small jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u7	Mr President! In that speech, I raised the question of reducing the duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit for all unemployed people. And if we have already had one target group for which it has been tried, and any positive impact on reducing the duration of unemployment, creating jobs or increasing the activity of the unemployed is not visible, then why do we want to introduce such a failed method for all? And it is quite interesting how lame these arguments for employment policy in Finland have been. When the working condition has been shortened, it has been said that it activates the unemployed. Once the condition of working has been extended, it has been said that it will increase the activity of the unemployed. So it has been said that it will have the same effect, that it will be reduced or that it will continue to be subject to the condition of working, and it will not fit my logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u9	Mr President! It is the responsibility of the Social Insurance Institution to ensure the basic security of citizens, and against this it is incomprehensible that large cuts are being proposed from the government to the housing allowance for pensioners. This has become a great deal of mail by letter and telephone and e-mail from the citizens, and there is great concern about how to deal with the needs of basic living. At the same time, pharmaceutical costs will rise and other benefits will also be reduced. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but I would like an answer to the fact that has the government now calculated the extent to which all these synergies will be directed at the individual citizen. Now, in these presentations, I have not seen any calculations as to how these weakenings are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u10	Mr President! Unemployment is the biggest problem in our society. We have to pay about the same amount of unemployment benefits as the government takes out a loan a year. In other words, the management of unemployment should be a top priority, and it is incomprehensible that the government should cut the appropriations allocated to the treatment of unemployment, start-up money, pay subsidies, and this will then be reflected in the fact that Kela will have to pay even more unemployment benefits. The unemployment benefit guarantees income during unemployment, and Mr Zyskowicz is quite right that, in the previous government, when we managed to achieve this EUR 300 element of protection, it has increased the fact that short cuts can be received. But that does not mean that unemployment support, the basic income, does not prevent us from receiving a job. This allows short cuts, but no human being, Mr Zyskowicz, is able to live for 300 or 500 euros a month on short jobs. This makes it possible to move on to work,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u11	Now, let's go to the debatt. The possibility to sign up is now open.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u12	Mr President! This discussion forgets that, in most cases, the problem with a young person is that when he tries to apply for a job, there are many who are competing for a much longer experience. In other words, young people should have the experience of working, and it is then considered in the direction of education that it is necessary to increase the period of employment in order to enable young people to have the capacity to compete for that job. Then the question of the EUR 300 is very good: it is true, and I wish it could have been raised a little, because it would allow us to accept such shorter employment relationships if they were available. All in all, this rigidity of unemployment benefit is also one of the problems that it does not allow for sufficiently shorter job opportunities or, in most cases, education. So this is what needs to happen, and I'm sure this parliamentary term will change. If I remember the government program correctly, corrections will also be made in that respect beyond that level and length.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u13	Mr President! I would have reminded Mr Zyskowicz that unemployment benefit really matters, and I would like him to look at a recent doctoral thesis on how, for example, the problems of people with earnings-related qualifications and the end of unemployment benefit are affected. That doctoral thesis shows that they affect people by leaving the labour force, not by entering the labour force. But, for example, for those who are long-term unemployed who depend on labour market support, those activation obligations and toughness will have the effect of becoming involved in activation measures and thus entering the labour force. Since then it is strange that since the joint multi-service points of Kela, social services and labour administration have undoubtedly had an impact on the services and activations of the long-term unemployed, the labour administration is now the one who withdraws from these services and has given instructions to the service centres to terminate leases from these joint service points and then perhaps see if there is a place in the future. I hope that you will intervene because that is probably our common interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u14	Mr President! To Mrs Zyskowicz, I did not object to the government's proposal to introduce this protective part last season, although I opposed many other government proposals. There have been many very different models: in the past there has been a safety component, there has been an adjusted daily allowance, many different models of it, there was a safety component in the past, in contrast to whether it was unemployment benefit or training support during an active action. But the best model, if we want to remove red tape, would be that if one day a person had a job, he would simply inform the person who paid the unemployment benefit that he was working at the time and that day would not be entitled to unemployment benefit, but otherwise unemployment benefit would not change anything, and that would be the most sensible and predictable form of all, and would not have to wait excessively long ago for the euro that is necessary for living. And yes, if you use carrots and not sticks in unemployment insurance too, you will certainly activate more people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u15	Mr President! I must say that this time I have more understanding of Mr Mustajärvi's criticism than of Mr Zyskowicz's criticism. The government cuts these employment appropriations and the government cuts the money that could help the unemployed. Mr Zyskowicz, on the other hand, focuses on the need for further cuts in the income of the unemployed. They have already lost half of their pay, and then there will be further cuts in unemployment benefit. My own daughter was unemployed a few days ago, and the employment office said that the situation was such that they might meet in January. Perhaps in January we can meet and see if there is anything to be done or offered. This is the reality when you have accepted these budget cuts. But when we talk about Kela, I'm going back to where there's also a lot of feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u19	Mr President! The young people who have been lost have been the target group in which, for example, they were wanted to be covered by the Youth Guarantee. They are young people who are not covered by unemployment benefits and, for example, young people are working with them. Kela’s delegates heard experts on the matter last year, and if you look at this report, there is also a solution that does not require money: the possibility for Kela to provide information, for example, on young people who receive housing allowance but do not receive any other income, so that young people who are looking for work can take up the position of these young people as soon as possible. So there are other ways besides surgery that can help and improve people’s situation. I would also like to ask Mr Sarkomaa, the President of Kela's delegation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u20	Mr President! Indeed, it is that: Kela is implementing the legislation decided by the Parliament, and it is certainly good that Parliament first deals with the budget, but then we can look at our meetings in the Kela Bureau of Deputies. But from the point of view of young people's employment, it is good to see what has been in the report of the Committee on Finance and what has been the focus of Kela's delegates in the previous period and what has happened here. The speech by Mustajärvi also pointed out that the most vulnerable young people have not received that help and support. Therefore, those mechanical measures, such as extending compulsory education and others, would not have helped young people. That is why tailor-made measures are needed for young people, and that is why this is one of the top priorities in Prime Minister Sipilä's government. Resources will also be allocated to it, and I believe that during this term of government we will be better able to get to grips with it. But the general difficult economic situation and unemployment, of course, are visible for young people, and it has also slowed down the prospects for these measures in terms of employment for young people. But the most important thing in Finland is that young people get a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u21	Madam President! The hall includes a cane in the form of a cutter and then carrots in the form of Mustajärvi. The debate is interesting, and should we see that new elements now need to be introduced into this whole system: For example, labour market support could be used to make it easier for workers who get a job. In other words, both directions would be met so that an entrepreneur who employs a young person who has been unemployed or unemployed for 200 days would be relieved of 100 per cent of the extra costs of pay in the first year. And this labour market support could be used to compensate for the loss of social and pension security for its employee and, at the same time, this would be extended for three years by another 70% and 30%, because the taxation of paid labour makes this system profitable for society. These are the new things we should bring and not just go to that cutter line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u22	Madam President! My previous response to Mr Mustajärvi was that when Mr Mustajärvi concluded in his actual speech that the changes to unemployment benefit would not increase jobs, I said that this makes perfect sense in itself. But I told you that when we fixed this EUR 300 per month for unemployment benefit, many unemployed people, according to studies, have taken or received these jobs or labour inputs below EUR 300. After all, these EUR 300 contributions did not increase the number of jobs, but the changes in unemployment security still led to unemployed people having access to these jobs. This was my basic argument: the changes made to unemployment security have an impact on the employment situation of the people concerned and on how they take on the jobs available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u23	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is now at the top of his logic. If you say that the EUR 300 part of unemployment security leads to more work being done, it cannot logically draw the conclusion that by taking EUR 300 out of unemployment benefit more work would be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u24	Madam President! My point was that I disagreed with Mr Mustajärvi's view that changes in unemployment security do not affect people's employment, because, as we all understand, changes in unemployment security do not in itself create jobs, as Mr Mustajärvi said in his speech. And this is what you are against all changes to unemployment benefit; you say that there will be no more jobs. This EUR 300 contribution is an example for me of the importance of changes in unemployment security in terms of employment. When we encourage unemployed people to accept jobs by allowing you to earn 300 euros a month without eating your unemployment benefit, we find that many unemployed people have been able to take up and take up these jobs. This was my point, i.e. the changes made to unemployment security will affect people's employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u25	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is a master of deliberate misunderstanding. I understand that sometimes he does it with all his annoyances, but now he does seem to have some kind of logic problem. When cuts to unemployment benefit have been planned — not carrots, but cuts — I took the example of the fact that, when young people have already had a reduced duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit, 100 days, it has not increased jobs, has not increased the activity of workers and has not improved the position of young people in any way. The situation of young people has continued to worsen, more than 10 per cent have become more unemployed than young people during the year, with 57,000 per annum. It is quite different to talk about encouraging employment policies, about carrots, than about those cuts. And those are the cuts you're offering now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u26	It has now been said that unemployment security and its weakening do not matter at all. Let me give you two examples from last week: I met a nurse who's been out of work. He's on a earnings-related allowance. He himself said that he should not go to the nursing profession now, because earnings-related daily allowance is so good. He knows that there are very many jobs there, but he does not accept them. Another example is the bus operator. He spent six months in employment training as a bus driver, offered a permanent job. What did this gentleman say? No, I'm going back to earnings-related per diem. Yes, we must get these unhealthy things out of our society. I admit, there are a lot of unemployed people out there. But it's like there's no such thing as this, and I'm sure everyone's got a lot of people around here. Now, however, it is acknowledged that surgery is important. Should I give them even more money to be sure they're home?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u27	Mr President! The basic idea of unemployment security is that the unemployed are available to the labour market. It is not, therefore, a question of any free-of-charge security. In every case where you refuse a fixed-term job or permanent work and you report it to the Employment Office, the sanction will certainly be pounding. If you do so repeatedly, unemployment benefit will be denied indefinitely until the unemployed person shows that he or she is actively seeking employment. It's a sure thing. If these refusals are not notified to the authorities then it — and all of them — is the fault of its provider. If there is a job available and proper working conditions and there is a refusal, then it is the provider's duty to notify it to the authorities so that they will be subject to the sanctions provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u28	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is now clearly confusing two things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u31	Mr President! Now that unemployment benefit is, on average, about half of the salary, I would say that someone who does not accept the work of his own sector does not work in a very sensible economic way. When you listen to this debate here, I am, however, extremely surprised by the speeches made today and to some extent earlier. This party is quite different from what appeared here during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u35	Mr President! I did not understand how forest taxation has to do with this, but my real message is that we really do not need the culprits here, but that we need jobs for young people and other people. This catastrophic trend in employment should be able to be changed. If last year the previous government has underbudgeted the employment budget, that is, of course, a problem which perhaps should have been corrected more quickly. Similarly, the activities of the Ely Centres are weak, and there is no point in applying for them, at least in this current government. But we really do need a certain amount of ownership in Finland for people, a certain incentive in the systems, and if we assume that it does not exist, then we are in these examples — I too have many, and I do not know if they are true, but entrepreneurs say that there are many unemployed people in the city but they do not get workers. What does this phenomenon tell you? That's something you can all think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u38	Madam President! As President of Kela's delegation, I would like to remind you that everything that is being discussed here is not Kela's fault, but Kela's delegates are following these things that have been discussed here. But I would like to say that in the government we have experienced, well-informed people, and that is why I have to say that I am really surprised that even if we do not already know what the reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners means in practice for pensioners' livelihoods. At present, pensioners who receive housing allowance earn from around 700 to less than 1,000 euros a month. Housing costs range from €500 to €800. Currently, on average, pensioners receive housing allowance of more than EUR 200 and some 100,000 pensioners will lose less than EUR 200 housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u39	Madam President! I have followed this debate with interest, and I say that as far as this money relating to the payment of unemployment benefits is concerned, there really was a heavy underbudget in the last budget of the previous government. Do you think this lack of money could be a little bit on that side too? Let us hope that the facts are also recognised as they are. But as Mr Ala-Nissila has just said, it does not help much to look for those responsible. What is more important in this country is that we should be able to eliminate red tape so effectively that the poor people who are facing the spiral of unemployment are given a genuine chance to find employment and even be rewarded for finding a job on their own initiative. Now this system is punishing and passive. In my opinion, we need to have a system in which a young person who is actively getting a job or anyone who finds a job is given a small bonus on behalf of the employment services that he has been active himself. Then there is this general de-bureaucratisation. Without that public demolition, this job is not going to work. It is now included in the Government Programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u40	Mr President! I think that this debate is beginning to reek strongly that, on the right as well as on the left, there is support for basic income and there is also agreement that it is necessary to make work and receiving work worthwhile under all circumstances. It is clear that long working hours and the reduction of unemployment security will not increase jobs or employment among young people. The example of representative Heinäluoma was sad but unfortunately true. It is equally regrettable that many young people are in pain in the various advices of the TE Office and Kela without getting a job in a situation where it is needed. So we have to get the kids a one-stop-shop principle to catch these interlopers. I also warmly support Mr Sarkomaa's proposal for a better assessment of the effects of cuts and increases in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u41	Mr President! Yes, I must say there is something wrong with this system. Of course, there are unemployed people, and there are many different situations: one of them is seriously looking for work, the other is offered and not received. I visited a bakery in Lieksa about a month ago. There was a recruitment training, and that was what the application was going on. Ten people would have been included in this training, six of whom were promised a permanent job in advance and four part-time jobs. Those ten people were not found in Lieksa, a city with 20 percent unemployment. He said it wasn't worth sacrificing earnings-related per diem. I visited a metal workshop that had been searching for two machinemakers for months. Not found. And yet that machiner's work is very interesting to many young men, but not these companies
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u42	Mr President! Representatives Kiljunen and Haatainen raised here the cuts in housing allowance for pensioners, and despite government promises to reduce these cuts, these cuts will lead to an increase in the use of income support for low-income pensioners. Income support should always be the last step in a difficult life situation, but there is now a risk that tens of thousands of low-income pensioners will be covered by permanent income support. This is inhumane, but it probably won't save us any money either. But most of all, I am concerned about the pensioners who have come to me directly to say that otherwise they will not be applying for income support — they prefer to compromise on medicines or food because it is such a difficult thing for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u43	Mr President! I do now appeal to you, Members of Parliament, not because you have spoken to one or two people, to label all the unemployed. This image of the human being is quite incomprehensible, which is currently taking place in the general debate, and which we Members of Parliament are adding right now, that people are lazy and unworkable and that the majority of the unemployed do not want to work even if they are offered the right thing. Is that really what you think? I would not be surprised if people were to go into the demonstration just because of the way they are now being labeled. The problem of matching the workforce is different. The obligation to accept a job has just been extended. Various measures have been taken. And then, as far as protection is concerned, it has addressed the problems of the system. It has been ensured that the changes do not cause you to spend the next three months without subsidies, because the processing takes so long. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u44	Mr President! I recall that the chairman of the SDP, Mr Rinne, said some day ago that unemployment benefit is not exactly a job alternation leave, and that is quite well said. That the idea is that if you are unemployed, of course you are looking for a job yourself, you are available to the labour market. Otherwise there will be no unemployment benefit. And that security is needed, it is an important part of the well-being and well-being of all of us, that we can be confident that income will not go to zero in the event of unemployment. After several of these companies have been brought here by downtown representatives, where there is a situation where vacancies are not being filled and the unemployed do not want to go to them as they have been told, I really suggest that we go there together and see. It's pretty important to know that what this is about and how it's going to be there at the workplace if you don't come somewhere In Lieksa, applicants for a course like this, where they promise a job. Let's go and see, 'cause we'll find out. That is all it is, and then we have a common understanding of this matter. But even after that, I'll tell you, we've got the latest report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u46	Mr President! In my view, however, the more important issue of this confrontation which, at least in Kainuu, exists in such a way that we have the highest unemployment rate in the country, but also the highest shortage of labour in some sectors. I agree with Mr Salonen that we should, however, work even more on this issue and not go together to blame the employer who does not necessarily get the workers there. This seems to me to be the wrong policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u47	Mr President! Indeed, it is essential that workers and jobs are met. And when we discuss the Kela report here, it is good to say that Kela has a joint office here in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, the In To Finland point, where Kela and the Tax Administration provide services to work-related immigrants so that they can get to that job. This type of innovation is needed, and yes, I say that thanks are due to Kela's staff. Service innovations have been made there. There's a once-in-a-lifetime principle that could be in te-offices and our health care. There's customer guidance. 52% of the applications are already online, and for those customers who show up, there is already a person in the lobby who will help. And the situation in the capital region is very challenging: 160 countries have customers, and it is difficult to find a common language. In other words, service innovations are needed and they are especially needed at the TE Office. There's no former Minister Ihalainen here. He knows, and in his day there were really big challenges, and now this government has to find ways of getting every unemployed person help in time, because the sooner they get help, the sooner they'll be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u48	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u49	Mr President! In this speech, I would like to raise a few points from the Kela Ombudsman's activity report last year as such a fresh, new Kela Ombudsman. More and more customers of Kela are now doing their business online. The number of visitors to Kela's website has increased annually. Last year the number of visits was 24.4 million. More than 15 million online services were logged in. Already 52 per cent of all applications were sent through the online service. It is important to develop networking because it has the potential to save a lot of money while the service level remains or even improves. However, the opportunity to do business in person and on the phone must be maintained. Older people, in particular, may find it difficult to handle their affairs online. Mr President! Strong savings targets have been set for Kela. Kela's operating expenses will be reduced from 2015 to a saving of EUR 15 million from next year. But at the same time, there has been an increase in the number of missions. Maintenance support and interpretation services for disabled people have been included in the repertoire, and a further increase in basic income support is planned in 2017 and perhaps in informal care support later. You can see a contradiction here, at least a big challenge. But overall, the transfer of services to Kela is a good development. This serves the idea of less bureaucracy and the genuine one-stop principle. The process of clarifying the language of the official language will receive commendation. In future, attention should also be paid to harmonising the language of different agencies, for example between Kela and the Tax Administration. In Kela, customer servants have been just as confused as their customers when trying to interpret what income affects the income limits of student support. In this context, Kela and the Tax Administration used different terms. Mr President! In order to ensure equal treatment, it would be important, for example, to transfer informal care support from municipalities to Kela. Now there are big differences in the amount of management fees between regions. The problem is, as we know, that many municipalities are under-estimating the budget for informal care support. This creates injustice in the system and can have a negative impact on citizens' willingness to act as family carers in the future. The decrease in the number of informal care will accelerate the increase in care expenditure. And as we know, informal care significantly reduces the cost of care. Currently, without the help of family members, the cost of care for older people would be EUR 2.8 billion higher than at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u50	Mr President! The report of Kela's delegates has already been discussed today and Friday in a very diverse way, and so I will only raise a few points. The primary task of the delegates is to supervise Kela's operations and administration. However, the delegate also has the opportunity to highlight the shortcomings of both Parliament and individual citizens, which may warrant the attention of the Kela organisation. It is also possible for delegates to make proposals for the development of Kela's operations. So I am looking a little to the future, Mr President. The basic part of the income support will be transferred to Kela from the beginning of 2017. All of us who deal in some way with income support or disadvantaged people know that the life of a person or family depends on income support is a tough thing. In most cases, it is not just about money and buying bread, but poverty is a complex issue and a matter of great concern to one’s psyche. When basic income security for these people is transferred to Kela, the question for many social workers has already been whether paying the basic part will only be financial traffic or whether people and families will also receive mental support, discussion assistance, versatile social worker support, guidance on targeted and needs-tested income support. Mr President! It will be quite a challenge for us new Kela delegates to have sufficient information in the future on how the new income support system will be implemented and how it will work. I therefore hope that in future the report of the delegates will also provide Parliament with sufficient information. It is not desirable for these poorest people to be forced to run both at Kela's hatch and at the municipal social welfare office in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u51	Mr President! Kela's activities are not sensitive to political winds, its policies do not vary by parliamentary term. Kela’s operations are guided by the fact that the basic security of citizens is enshrined in the Constitution. Kela also has a responsibility to inform citizens about various benefits and Kela's service activities. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of Kela's delegates to supervise the administration of Kela. The current activity report examines the smooth running of Kela in 2014. Mr President! However, one of the outstanding and important issues is the transfer of the payment of informal care support from the municipalities to the Social Insurance Institution. This would be a more appropriate and equitable system in relation to the present responsibility for the organisation of municipalities. The issue of providing informal care support is very important in many ways. In fact, the harsh reality is that state transfers have not earmarked money for informal care, and so, unfortunately, in some municipalities, the money allocated to it has perhaps been spent on the other responsibilities of the municipality. In many municipalities, informal care contracts have even been omitted altogether, due to a lack of funding. If fees, services and administration are combined, one informal care contract will cost the municipality approximately EUR 13200 per year. On average, informal care contracts have been concluded in Finland per 7.9 thousand inhabitants. In my municipality of residence in Hollola, we are just above average, but in many other municipalities the situation is much weaker. Mr President! Like many other instances, Kela is also in the grip of structural changes. Kela is undergoing the biggest reform in its history. The Kela Board of Directors approved a new organisational structure last December, which will start at the beginning of next year. Some of the central government adjustment and saving measures have also been targeted at Kela. Kela’s operating expenses will be reduced from the beginning of this year to savings of EUR 15 million from next year. Mr Sarkomaa has already explained these savings with merit. The scope and coverage of the service network is a source of debate, especially among citizens. Services should be guaranteed equally and comprehensively throughout Finland. Kela’s activities are quite impressive in society, and it provides people with various social security benefits and services. The number of applications has increased dramatically. However, the starting impression is that despite the high working pressure, Kela has managed well in a demanding situation. The highest benefit in terms of the number of recipients last year was medical benefits received by more than 4 million people. Child benefit, on the other hand, was paid for over a million children. In particular, the number of applications for unemployment benefit and housing allowance increased due to Finland’s poor financial situation. Mr President! One of the tasks of the Social Insurance Institution is to safeguard the basic income of the population, promote health and support independent survival in different life situations. The Social Insurance Institution has managed and manages the basic security of many Finns at different stages of their lives. All in all, Kela is a lot of security: Kela’s operations cover Finns from a baby to a grandfather. This activity report rightly states that Kela's concept of activity is "involved in life – in changes as support". There are many challenges to ensure the smooth functioning of Kela's operations in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u52	Mr President! Kela’s customer satisfaction is high, but there is one group of citizens who often gives me negative feedback about certain activities in Kela. Deaf people have often contacted me that the services of the Interpreting Centre do not always work for them. For example, remote interpretation techniques do not work as they should and messages are not always answered. However, the most negative feedback comes from the fact that the individual needs of the customer are not always taken into account when choosing an interpreter. For example, it is not possible to change an interpreter locally, even if one of the available interpreters has a better sign language capacity in the case the customer needs. These are the things I would like to see invested in in Kela, because it would not seem that it would be very difficult to get things right. Many other good things have happened: the development of e-services, for example, has been sensible and efficient in Kela. However, I am concerned about people who are unable to make use of e-services, and the Ombudsman also addressed this problem last spring in his own report — not to mention Kela, but generally as a social challenge. Hopefully, Kela will ensure that citizens also receive the service face-to-face. In sparsely populated areas in particular, citizens have received feedback that, for example, multiple service points do not receive personal service from Kela's expert, even if the customer needs it. If remote connections are assumed to be used at multi-service points, there should also be a person who instructs and guides these remote connections because not all citizens have the capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u53	Madam President! In fact, I still want to address this general argument, which I said a little about last time. Kela provides basic security for people in different life situations, and it is essential that Kela's funding can be secured in all circumstances, even today and in the future. At present, Kela's income is 69 per cent from the state, 25 per cent from health insurance contributions, 5 per cent from municipalities and 1 per cent from other kinds of income. However, the government is now undermining this basic funding system and reducing the share of health insurance contributions and will inevitably affect Kela's total funding. The last time this happened, we Kela delegates, all together, regardless of political parties, studied the matter and took a united position that the state should ensure that this basic funding can be secured. At the time, this was such a great thing that Kela was also unanimous across party boundaries. The government is now reducing the private employers' income insurance premium, which will reduce basic funding by nearly EUR 1 billion, an estimated EUR 950 million. But another thing that is also a bad thing is that the government discriminates between different employers and thus treats both private and public employers unequally. This reduction is directed exclusively at private employers, and public employers continue to pay employment income insurance just as before. That is why the government is discriminating against our employers' policy, and I would hope that this will not happen. Now I would like to ask — here are the chairmen of Kela’s delegates: could we, as Kela’s delegates, be able to look into this issue in the same way as the previous time, and then take a joint position on this matter, so that then this Mr President! I will then ask the following question in the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u54	Mr President! Indeed, the report of Kela’s delegates for the year 2014 is being discussed. The next Bureau of Kela delegates will be on Friday, and I am sure that we will be able to go over these matters. With regard to customer service, it is good to say face-to-face — when the parliament in particular has to monitor that every citizen is provided with a service — that it is good that there are services on the Internet, that 52% is used, but even if there is not always a person with all the benefits at the joint service points, then there is guidance, where help can be obtained, and also for the use of information technology. Special attention has been paid to the fact that on the ground, for example, when you go to that office in Kamppi, there is a lobby counselor, so that hand-in-hand help is also provided because, for example, linguistic problems are quite challenging because the official languages are Finnish and Swedish and English alone is not enough when we have people from 160 countries, for example, here in the capital region. But on this matter of interpretation, I would like to say that the interpreting service moved to Kela on 1 September 2010 and now the first tendering period is over and we are in another, and it has indeed discharged these services into Kela's operations so that from that order until then they are in one hand. Just before the parliamentary elections, a few days before, there were Development Days of the Kela Interpreting Service, and there were many things that were now being taken forward. I personally trust that this will be better in the future: these development measures have been raised and 31 new people have been hired, half of which are interpreters. But I am sure we will follow this up with the Kela delegates, and it is important that this issue works, and it has certainly not been the top priority yet, but it is going to be better — from the information I have received, I can say that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u55	Mr President! Kela also performs high-quality research in addition to its operations, and here at the end of this report there will be these key results and findings in 2014. One of the studies there has been that the dietary allowance for celiac disease is properly and effectively realized. Since 2002, Kela has granted a dietary allowance of EUR 23 60 cents per person per month, and this is available to over 30,000 adults. I am now very concerned that the dietary allowance for people with celiac disease is being proposed to be abolished in that proposal for the budget of the VM. This total abolition of compensation is really unfair to other long-term illnesses, as the only treatment for coeliac disease and the medicine is a gluten-free diet, which costs a person an extra EUR 70 per month. These extra costs burden a person with celiac disease every day for the rest of his life. Many people with coeliac disease cannot afford to buy gluten-free products if they do not receive the dietary allowance, and in this case there is a risk of slipping out of this diet, which causes serious additional illnesses, such as the risk of cancer, which was verified in this Kela study. In this way, our health care burden will increase and social and health care expenditure will increase several times as much as the cost of paying the dietary allowance. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease in which the body’s own defence system is failing. And briefly, President-in-Office: there is still a chance
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u56	Madam President! I'm a representative. I fully agree with Mrs Tavitsainen and hope that this will happen as she mentioned in her speech. But I will continue with this basic funding for Kela while I am particularly concerned about it now. I would now like to ask Anne Louhela, a representative of the Finns, whom I greatly appreciate: You insisted last season, and you have demanded on several occasions and lastly also Minister Lindström this spring that the employers' Kela fee should also be refunded. You justified this precisely by taking it in time so that we could strengthen employment, and now no results and studies can prove that this abolition of the Kela levy has achieved the objective that was sought. But now you have agreed with the Government that Kela's basic funding will continue to be broken down, i.e. sickness insurance employment income insurance will be facilitated for private employers. Now I would like to hear your views on your measures and your views on follow-up measures. Do you really agree that this employer's income insurance premium should be abolished, or are you prepared to work to ensure that this basic funding of the Social Insurance Institution remains unchanged, stable and, on the other hand, that employers are treated equally regardless of their background?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u57	Mr President! Of course, in this situation, when we try to change all the structures and look for the situations and alternatives that can help to increase the number of people employed, of course these solutions will be sought from many quarters. Unfortunately, with these earlier solutions, employers have not taken measures that have always achieved the savings or new jobs they are aiming for, but in this economic situation it is necessary to use all the means. Certainly, when this draft budget comes before Parliament at the end of this month, we will be able to learn more about what the Minister for Labour is proposing. Also, we are all concerned about this funding for Kela, because, as I said in my own speech, Kela is quite a baby grandfather with all our services and social benefits. So it is in the common interest of all of us that this, too,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u58	Mr President! I would then ask Mr Sarkomaa, who is also in the Committee on Budgets: do you have any information on how this is to be financed? Is the State taking out additional loans so that this basic funding missing from the Social Insurance Institution can be received as a state contribution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u59	Mr President! First of all, the government is strongly committed to securing the funding of the Social Insurance Institution. But now we are discussing Kela's Annual Activity Report for 2014. At the same time, we will have a debate on next year's budget. And it is a good thing that when the budget comes into this house, then the ministers will give us the reasons for these, and this issue of Kela's financing is also being discussed here. But it is good to note that when you look at the future prospects for Kela's financing, the increase in benefits is estimated to be between 2% and 2.5% in 2015-2016. Two thirds of these are financed by the State and approximately one quarter by insurance premiums and 6% by municipalities. What is most essential is that we get economic growth and new jobs and hence tax revenue. It must be the tip, but as part of this is also considered the fact that Kela
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u60	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-15-ps-33.u61	Madam President! In its report, the Parliamentary Committee on Education has discussed the Parliamentary Library's report for 2014. The chairman of the committee and, apparently, the other members of the committee are not here because of the trip to the committee, so at the same time I represent a little committee as a member of the committee during the last parliamentary term and as an alternate member of the board of the library, as the current chairman of the board. The committee has welcomed the work of the library in its report. The library has been well managed in 2014, and the service has been highly successful. The renovated facilities have benefited both users and staff. Attention has been paid to accessibility in the renovation. Each organisation must redeem the legitimacy of its existence through continuous development. The library field is also affected by many trends of change, such as digitalisation, increasing appreciation of openness, increasing competition for people’s interest and especially for time and, of course, then, of course, the struggle for resources, in Finnish for money in general. Some of the trends of change and future changes may also increase interest in the Library of Parliament. An example of this is the building near the Central Library, which should open in 2017 in the centenary year of Finland’s independence. It may offer various opportunities for cooperation, at least this is how I think, and certainly a new, big, great library will be displayed on the media. Success in recruiting skilled and motivated personnel is important for all organisations, and it is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, where there is little room for malpractice. There are about 40 staff in the library, and success in future recruitments will continue to be important. About education and development at work: According to the Library's report, the staff of the Library of Parliament have been actively involved in organised and offered training, part of it up to the doctoral level, and then in various forms of shorter specific training, depending on the situation. Of course, in terms of recruitment and recruitment, it is important that employees have the opportunity to continuously develop their own skills. Society is changing, the library field is changing, digitalisation and other ways of seeking information is changing the field, and it imposes requirements on current staff, and of course future people who are considering looking for a job in the Library of Parliament are interested in what training opportunities future employers can offer.
