ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on Tuesday, 29 September 2015. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the 4th to 28th agenda. on the subject. The debate will begin with Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u2	Madam President! Why do the government and parliament have to operate? Because our country has not been able to renew itself. The previous government also decided on major structural reforms; they could not be carried through. It is extremely disgusting and uncomfortable to do this: we have to deal with many of the benefits that have been achieved and we have to question the current practices of almost all the structures of society. This situation is compounded by the fact that we have lost our agility with over-regulating and management. As a result of all this, too many people are out of work and our public finances are in crisis. We are in a situation where, at the same time, we must both save and push through major reforms. We would not be here if reforms and preparations for a strong demographic change had been made in time. Now we have to do it. This isn't going to be fun, and it's not going to get any points out of it. Now we have to think about Finland's interests and do what is now required. At this rate we will not even be able to provide our basic services; a turning point must therefore be made. This parliamentary term will be easy for those who oppose change. There is something to be criticized in every corner, and all structures need to be touched. This government is not only talking about reforms but will implement them. Many of us view ourselves as reformers. Now let's dig up that freshman in the middle of the dust. Now the speeches have to turn into practical actions. This government is powered by a vision written in the government program. It defines the Finland to which the amendments are intended. We are committed to this, and it is worth the effort. There were many references to midwives here yesterday. Why not listen to the opposition now when the midwives were also listened to? Midwives, like most people, constantly solve problems pragmatically, every day, every hour. Midwives immediately had a spontaneous solution to a situation they suddenly faced: do not touch Sunday supplements, but some holiday money can be cut, it treats employees more fairly. If that practical problem-solving capacity were to spread rapidly into this Chamber, the table of social partners and society as a whole! The list of this and the previous government included, for example, reducing municipalities' tasks by EUR 1 billion. Everyone in this Chamber has been in the position of the government party to write down this goal. I expect that proposals for this work will come to the responsible minister, both from the opposition and from the government groups. Nor does the reform of social security come about by itself, which is also our joint exercise. We started last season. We're in the middle of it. Important decisions must be taken in the next month to move forward. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the balance sheet of the budget book. We have made the change we have promised: we will also include property in the budget process. The state’s assets, i.e. the balance sheet, are in lazy use. We need to get the balance sheet to work, to create new and to reform our society. I demand it several times last season. This government will put state property to work in a completely new way: creating jobs, renovating Finnish industry. I will bring this whole, that is to say, state ownership strategy, to this Chamber in the spring of next year. Now that the balance sheet is part of the budget book, I hope that your proposals will also be made in this debate on how to bring it together to create and renew our society. Here, too, we are strangely caught up in the old. We live in one of the most sensitive moments for the future in Finland. We must not give up now; we must ensure that, in 2025, Finland is a renewable, caring and safe country in which everyone can feel important, and there is mutual trust in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u3	Then let's start the debut. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u4	Madam President! The Prime Minister's speech was once again excellent and very constructive in the direction of the opposition. In other words, if the opposition were to start this debate in a slightly different position, you could enjoy the satisfaction of presenting Minister Vehviläinen with a long list of tasks that will be reduced in the field of local government tasks, you could say to your supporters that you have achieved more than perhaps many oppositions for decades. Take this Prime Minister's offer, bring suggestions that contribute to the balance of the Finnish economy and this good, common position of our country. Then it was also an excellent thing for this more active management of the state balance sheet, there is much to do here too. Take initiatives, too, in what way and in what way the state could take steps to get new jobs and what passive assets could be put into new work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u5	Mr President! This is a little like this speech similar to that of Mrs Rantakanka and this is at the same time a point of order: Constructive debate is needed. Recently, this hall has begun to resemble more like this Red Guard event, where matters are solved by shouting and not by talking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u6	Congressman Mölsä, all right, that's enough!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u7	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the Prime Minister and the government of our country for a new way of doing things. I've been puzzled by the fact that it's the first time I've been accused, I am fully grateful to the Prime Minister and to our government for this, and I hope that the culture of this debate will continue, that we will take account of others and together build a country where there will be more work to be done, that will be more well-being and that everyone can manage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u8	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, we are prepared to work together, but not in a policy of cutting, which deprives the most deprived people in Finland of their livelihoods: not from low-income pensioners, not from families with children, not from the unemployed. We will bring our own options to this adjustment policy when we find out in this Parliament when the time has come to present our alternative budget. We are also bringing a package that shows how to build economic growth and employment in a different way than what the government is now moving forward with. I ask you, Prime Minister, are you prepared to come into this process of collective responsibility as a government, to build hands on Finnish society? There are more than 60 NGOs and a lot of experts involved, and that process continues. Welcome!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u9	Mr President! With its cuts, the government disciplines the weakest: children, the elderly, pensioners, low incomes. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have said that people with disabilities are not being cut at all, and I wonder what this is based on, because the government is raising social and health care charges, weakening the housing allowance for low-income pensioners, freezing national pensions, reducing medical benefits, increasing the self-responsibility of sick taxi fares, abolishing the dietary allowance. These are all the worst hit by the most vulnerable, such as pensioners and disabled people. In terms of education and research, you're making a big cut in university funding and Tekes' admissions. On the other hand, you are directing money through your top projects to selected targets, and I wonder: do you have the wisdom to choose winners? In science, it is very important that there is freedom of research.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u10	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä said that cutting was disgusting and wanted problem-based solutions. Our problem is that we do not have enough income. And one of the reasons is that we have a grey economy and billions of euros are being poured into tax havens every year. Work against the shadow economy and putting tax havens under control should be the top priority both in Finland and in Europe. But what is the government doing? During the last period, resources were increased to combat the shadow economy — the government is cutting them down. Ninety-nine police officers less to investigate the black economy. Is it not, Mr Sipilä, that the grey economy is not rampant and the trickery of tax havens is being curbed? When you also have experience of how tax haven companies operate within the government, you can probably also get from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u11	Irade fru talman, Madam Speaker! Mr Prime Minister, at least on such a general level it is easy for me to agree with the vision you have just painted. There is little to disagree with. In fact, we have already tried in the last government to make these reforms and change Finland. Unfortunately, at the time, the Central Party was opposed to almost all reforms. At least this is my experience. I may be wrong, but this is what it felt like. In any case, reform is necessary, and that, of course, is what you need to be able to do now. As far as these priorities are concerned, the question still needs to be asked as to why education, science, science is what is most vaccinated. I do not believe that this is a consistent way to act, because you claim, Mr Prime Minister, in your programme that competence is the top priority for Finland, it is our leverage. That's what your government program says. I do not think that this is really reflected in your policy, and I would like you to be able to justify this a little further.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u12	Madam President! A constructive opposition policy has been called for here, and that is precisely what the Christian Democrats have been trying to do all along. You also asked for proper preparation and, of course, it is good that, for example, the housing allowance for pensioners was moderated and that the pressures and cuts on Sundays and shifts were withdrawn, the income ceiling for the solidarity tax was lowered. These are quite the right moves, but somehow there is a feeling that they may not have been properly prepared for them, that they have been movements where it seems that it has not been possible to keep up when changes have been made in these matters. But the changes have been in the right direction, thank you for that. The most valuable balance sheet item this nation has is our children and young people. In that sense, even the finest innovation strategies and development policies will not succeed if our children and young people are excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u13	Madam President! The situation is that a cold right-wing economic line has been chosen. When you look at this thick yellow book, there are not so many acts of justice here, nor are there acts of justice that employ them. On the contrary, contrary to what the centre said during the last term of the government, there is a cut from pensioners, families with children, students, the unemployed. These are value choices, including economic policy value choices, Mr President. I am a little annoyed that the centre has now adopted this cold, right-wing, co-operative economic line with the Finns. We're going to have a clear choice. We will challenge this line with employment, among other things. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to ask the four years when the Central Party and President Sipilä said that there was a growth fund,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u16	Mr President! I agree with those who have said that we are living in a huge change, and this change is cold. If we cling to the existing one, we will lose our chances. Therefore, even if it seems safe for us to seize the existing situation, it does not move us forward. Therefore, a few choices are needed for limited resources, and that is why the government has chosen these key projects. There is a risk for major projects, but this risk has now been taken, and we firmly believe that in this change in which we are in turmoil, we will be able to maintain and create new jobs, from 50,000 to up to 100,000 in the future. That is why it is worth taking this matter forward now. Finally, I would like to say that it is good for all of us that we have time,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u17	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä spoke a lot before the elections about a new political culture, and in the speech you have just given, you appealed to the spirit of cooperation. In fact, long before the elections, you raised hopes, you spoke of a broad social pact. You are now only making labour market decisions, in which you are only pursuing the interests of the employer. You said it was necessary to lead with fear and the world of the past. Now you're bringing in mandatory laws. You have just said that social reform is a common process. Now you are simply taking it forward by a majority of the government and the opposition has been left with a monitoring role. We offered you the hand of cooperation in standard procedures. You say that this too will be carried forward on the shoulders of the government in the summer. The parliamentary development of comprehensive school has been forgotten and then you said before the elections that if we make a growth fund, Finland's economy will start to rise, and there will be no need to cut a cent of low incomes. How do you judge it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u18	Mr President! Mr Lindström said here that you are in the process of making a labour market decision that only serves the interests of the employer. If so, when the SAK has met quite a lot and are they also making a zero decision just because the employer’s interests are being promoted. I think it tells us that, better than the political opposition, the social partners have understood the seriousness of the situation. And this is because we drive and safeguard the jobs that currently exist and that we get jobs for those who have just graduated, we get jobs for those who have lost their jobs. We are working for the unemployed and for all Finns whose employment situation is currently weak or threatened. That is what we are doing here and I hope that everyone will join us in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u19	Mr President! I'll say it again. We have supported the social agreement that Prime Minister Sipilä spoke about before the elections. We have also supported labour market solutions, even offered Mrs Lauri Ihalainen to midwives, but it has not been acceptable to the government. And then, when you consider how the government has acted, it is descriptive, it is symbolic that, now that you are driving this medical treatment, of which only the majority spoke before the election, which Sipilä and the Finns of Finland knocked out, you base it on only one party's calculations, the EK calculations, which have their own interests here, and you have not even asked the wage and salary earners anything. You've gone completely to the employer's locker room, you're better at lobbying the EK than Häkämies himself. The question is: Your salary is paid by the Finnish people, should you not be fair? And the package you're driving right now, there's not gonna be a single action coming into effect this year, not next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u20	Mr President! The speech was the Prime Minister's speech, but it had a bit of a tone for a business manager. It is possible to make consistent, even unambiguous, solutions in companies, but the Prime Minister is in charge of the government and, to a large extent, the country, and many realities must be taken into account. One reality is the logic of the labour market. You are making compulsory laws, reducing incomes, extending working hours and interfering with the right to sick leave, among other things. The EK does not agree to a centralised solution, it has been stated several times by Häkämies. What a risk you are taking from the point of view of the stability of the labour market and, at the same time, of cost development, by imposing mandatory laws on the admission of the trade union movement by knocking it down, in a situation in which compensation requirements in the labour market round next autumn are truly substantial.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u21	Mr President! It is very easy to go into small details, to stilistic details, to something specific and then to process it. However, when it comes to a large package, this involves the budget, the budgetary framework, all these measures that are being taken to improve cost competitiveness and this, as a whole, will then create the conditions for the outcome that is being sought. And here we are looking in particular, as the Prime Minister said several times yesterday in this Chamber, to improve employment, to create 110,000 new jobs in Finland, which directly affects our ability to reduce debt and even to put an end to debt. And now that the Prime Minister has asked how to put this state balance sheet to work and how to make the best use of it, I ask the Prime Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u22	Mr President! This change in the management system, which has clearly taken place during this Board, is also discussed. That Albert Einstein once said in some way that problems rarely resolve with the same thinking that they were born with. I welcome the fact that, in this rather exceptionally difficult situation, after seven years of chronic deficit, a new form of governance has been adopted in the state administration, whereas even in this budget debate in previous days there have sometimes been accusations against individual ministers that why you do not defend the affairs of the administrative sector of your own ministry, as has been the case in the past. Now that I have been watching the work of the government rather closely, that now in this government, ministers represent the government programme approved by the Government's Parliament in their own ministries, are part of this whole management system, and not the views of just one interest in the sector. I said hello.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u23	Mr President! Many times in this Chamber, questions and hopes have been asked about where to get new work, which will bring new growth or ideas, well-being and new structures to this society that are more agile, lighter, more sustainable. Perhaps I would draw the government's attention to our current question of asylum seekers. Rather than looking at it as a crisis or disaster, I think it has brought much good in society as well. Local people have started to act in a completely new way, a new kind of encounter with different cultures has arisen. It has raised new young experts to develop a variety of technological solutions. Local authorities have voluntarily started to build a variety of integration paths quickly. There is a lot of strong knowledge and know-how and, above all, perhaps that meeting of different people, or regionally some school that has been at risk of closure, will suddenly be given new opportunities through this question. I hope that, when this reform is carried out, this acute situation, asylum seekers, will also be taken into account in this issue, as if to go side by side with it, because we could also find a lot of those solutions at grass roots level. [President MariaLohela : Representative Toivola,time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u26	Värderade fru talman! Prime Minister Sipilä said that reforms should be properly prepared. Well, reforms are needed, and prepare to be, and preferably properly. We heard a week ago that vacation money can't be cut. It was then heard that they can be cut by 30%, it is fair. It was then heard that not everyone has them, so they have to be created, to create an additional cost for 25,000 companies until it was found that they did not. How does the government properly prepare for change?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u27	Madam Speaker! As I understand it, the Prime Minister's speech was about political culture, climate and leadership, the responsibility of each of us for the current state of Finland. It is that we are not going to survive this present, whoever is in charge, by chewing on the past and making accusations here and always, but by going back to the past. A change in the political climate is needed, and this view applies to all of us, every party in this big room. Everyone has a responsibility in this regard as to what is happening to us. In this respect, the recent steps taken by the social partners are positive signs, since it seems that we are taking responsibility for difficult issues and making historic new openings to the negotiating table. A little similar, though, is also needed here in the political field. I am nothing to advise you about opposition, it knows what it does and knows its responsibilities, but I hope that this change of direction will take place on that front, for which it is only one important matter: work for Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u28	Mr President! The message of Mrs. Kääriäinen was truly genuine and important. After all, we do not disagree as to whether reforms should be made in Finland. It is just a question of what reforms and how they will affect us. There is a great fear that, in this line of government, employment will not improve, but income differentials will increase. I offer two alternative reforms to the debate. The first is to make unemployment benefit active rather than passive support, which would promote employment. President Rinne has proposed that the unemployed should be able to get a bill that would help find a new job. Is the government ready to do this? Second: The Government is cutting down on VR's purchasing services, which means that passenger transport in the east-west direction is running out, many sections of the line are being completely decommissioned. In Western Uusimaa this has a very significant impact on commuting. That's 13.5 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u29	Mr President! Quite excellent suggestions that active unemployment benefit rather than passive unemployment benefit should be preferred. I am sure that we are absolutely in agreement on this point. However, I am taking this point of view for children and young people. I fully agree with Mrs Essayah that children and young people are the best resource in the balance sheet. Every action we take today is for the children. The child born today is the child who pays the debt that was taken out yesterday as a long-term debt. That is why we must do everything we can to get into debt. This requires that we also make cuts and reduce the burden of our public sector and create that new work. I think that the key projects are an excellent way to target and start building the new world, the new business life in which our children and young people will work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u30	Mr President! I will continue with these good, constructive proposals from the Social Democrats. You, Prime Minister, did not have the opportunity to be present when we had a debate around the issue of the midterms of education policy. At that time I referred to Kone Corporation's ex-president, Alahuhta, as a mountain counselor. I hope this morning as many people as possible listened to the mountain counselor Stig Gustavson. He's not related to me. Mr Gustavson was very concerned about these cuts and savings in education and research. I ask you, Prime Minister: could you not, even in this matter, take this leap of knowledge and admit that these savings on education are excessive? They eat the branch of the future of Finland. 3 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u33	Mr President! Finland is currently suffering from an investment recession, and the key question for the future is how to make investments in Finland. The important thing for investment is that we have a stable operating environment, a stable labour market, and a broad wage settlement would be good for companies to have a vision of how the labour market is developing and peace in the labour market. It is not worth sacrificing now for these coercive laws. Public investment is another big thing. They should also be in the toolbox when looking at what investments are made and how opportunities are created for the future economy. Putting bets on knowledge, research, product development and growth sectors is really important. We must also consider how we encourage private investment. A reduction in wages is not enough, because if it were enough, then there would be terrible investments in Romania and Bulgaria and they would be EU locomotives, but this is not the case. It cannot be thought that the reduction in wages [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeSarkkinen,time full!]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u36	Mr President! There has been a debate here about governance, both for the government and for the Prime Minister. I would urge the critics to remember and put their criticisms in this context, which we now have. Finland is in a time of crisis. This calls for leadership and determination, rapid decisions and progress. Criticism has been rather abstract at times, but at the moment it seems a little more constructive. There's been talk of cold winds, locker booths. I do not think that if we go to a party locker room to look into the fact that there is a totally colourless jersey for anyone, neither is the government. But this in itself is no disgrace to the political party. The only way forward is through responsible decisions. They are based on a line that has been supported by the people, represented by the parties. In front of them...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u37	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Terho. I would just like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term, the centre and the Finns of Peru were opposed to defence power reform, police reform, second-degree reform, constituency reform, municipal reform and, first of all, to social reform. This is just to refresh my memory.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u38	Mr President! I fully agree with what Mr Haglund said here. That's how it is, if you remember these things, but let's go over it again. First of all, I think it is good that Terho now acknowledged this fact, that when Mr Satonen, the group chairman of the delegation, tried to speak black and white here that the government has not become an EK agent, Terho here acknowledged that there is a jersey of its colour in the locker room. Then there's another thing. — Mr President, if I may continue to finish. — When Mr Terho spoke of the fact that the mandate of the people has now been given to carry through these reforms, such as these forced wage cuts, do I remember correctly that Mr Soini said before the elections that the worker had earned his salary? And when your slogan was that you get what you want, for the fourth time, I have asked you before who ordered these salary reductions from you and where can you cancel the order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u39	Mr President! Just when I got off to brag that the criticism has gotten a little better, it fell back to that point of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u40	Mr President! Indeed, when discussing how we could create work, what kind of reforms are needed, I personally see that there are three kinds of things that the government could do more vigorously. One is to promote Finland’s access to new growth areas, the introduction of low-emission technologies, smart solutions, digitalisation. The second is how to lower the threshold for employment and employment, we are talking about reforming social security. Then we also need to think about how to make the conditions for small entrepreneurs easier. I would like to see concrete things happen in all these areas, and I would like to point out that new standards are also needed if the world is to be a pioneer in the introduction of low-emission solutions, for example. Environmental technology in Finland as a whole has been created by the fact that we must no longer pollute water. Through the standards of water purification, we have become the best water purification technology in the world. When will Minister Rehn and the government take forward, for example, the increase in biofuels in fuels, when will it be taken forward to reduce emissions there,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u41	Madam President! Mr Viitanen said that there were no jobs in the government. The ideological differences between the parties have narrowed, but here there is a very clear ideological difference between bourgeois thinking and left-wing thinking. To the left — the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, perhaps even the Greens — the actions are to put more resources into active labour policy. But on this side of the hall, it is thought that employment-related acts are when the conditions for business, the conditions for entrepreneurship are improved, and thus opportunities are created for more and more Finns to get a job. These actions, measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship and employment, the entire government programme and government policy are full. This is a significant difference in thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u42	Representatives Viitanen, Alanko-Kahiluoto and then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u43	Madam President! We fully agree that job creation is needed, [President MariaLohela :Mr Viitanen,I apologise,I ask you to speak this way,so the vote is better. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u46	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's analysis was interesting as such, but as a green politician, I do not think that we Greens are doing that kind of confrontation. Yes, it is just as important for us to help companies to employ people. For example, here today we have proposed that we can help companies to make it easier for them to hire the first employee. Then, on the other hand, helping people so that they can take up employment, self-employment, for example, in an entrepreneurial way, also helps to create new business, creates new businesses for us, which in turn can employ people. This kind of confrontation between the question of whether to help employment by doing that or that does not necessarily include an overall analysis which could, in fact, help us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u47	Now, Prime Minister, three minutes from that place, and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u48	Mr President! Thank you for the feedback. I'm going to take these questions out. First of all, this social contract. There was a rather long debate yesterday. That was the aim of many parties before the elections, and its aim is to find the means by which we can actually create new jobs and jobs. It is now a fifth attempt, according to my calculations, at the moment, and I really expect a common understanding to emerge. We just have to stick to a timetable to find a solution. If we don't find it, we'll have to move on to the other roads. It is now extremely important that these big decisions, the big decisions changing society, are made at the beginning of the reign in order to bring about this change and restore confidence in the ability of Finnish society to cope with this situation, because that is the most important thing. I have gone over these conditions of investment with companies that it is the most important issue for them. They wonder whether Finnish society will survive in the long run, whether it has the ability to finance education and research and so on in the long run. That is our most important task. The Bank of Finland has also pointed this out on several occasions that cost competitiveness must also be improved as a part of the solutions. The most effective solution would be a small extension of working time. It would be the simplest thing to do, but no means and consensus have yet been found. After all, this government package contains these measures to extend working time. So, how do we get employment to grow? The most important thing is to find the right job for businesses and in such a way that we can carry this public sector, the export industry will be brought back to growth. There are a number of actions in this government programme for this purpose. We need this cost competitiveness leap, we need wage moderation, we need measures to promote productivity, we need to dismantle standards, we need bureaucracy. In removing the obstacles to entrepreneurship, we have a long list of actions out there. As far as the financing of exports from SMEs is concerned, we are putting together a billion packages all the time. This funding for Tes is one part of it. We are looking for a number of instruments to put in place the so-called intermediate financing, i.e. the financing between equity and loan financing. There Finnvera is one player on the side of small companies. We are getting a number of private actors excited about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u51	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the need to inspire that faith in the future, and it has also been pointed out that the most important factors in our future are indeed our children and young people. The question is why we are giving this group such a hopeless impression: we are cutting out huge amounts of education, destroying the Youth Guarantee. Would it not be important, in this very time, that we give these people the hope, the support they need, that then, when they take responsibility, they also take care of each of us? It is quite the turning of the back on the young knees of what the government is now doing. Then I would also like to mention that, when foreign investment is required here, we also have to ask about this atmosphere in Finland today: Is this atmosphere here that someone wants to invest in? If we do not treat the people who come here well, why should we treat the money well? I wish,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u52	Mr President! There are concerns about young people, but young people deserve teachers with an updated level of competence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u55	Mr President! Yesterday's representative used a comment such as 'we do not listen to professors', and this reflects the government's thinking: we are faced with a critical government. Mr Adlercreutz asked an excellent question. People are concerned that decisions are made on too thin a basis, without proper research. Holiday allowance is a good example of this: we want to reduce costs, but then we find that it actually increases costs for some, that is, occasionally others receive more money and others are cut off. The Prime Minister, in fact. Sipilä told experts who were asking questions about gender equality reports that the studies would be carried out afterwards. This is a bad way to proceed on these issues. I would like to call for good preparation and then good decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u56	Madam President! The Christian Democrats are engaged in a constructive opposition policy, and here is another constructive proposal: The Government will cut 49 million from development cooperation organisations and give it to Finnfund for a capital increase. We are now proposing a constructive alternative: Could this cut in development cooperation be refocused, moved from one pocket to another, so that this Finnish development cooperation, which is globally valued, can survive here? We ask for an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u57	Madam President! At my best, I have employed almost a thousand people full-time, and I will now be watching this debate that I would be able to do the same under these conditions, which are currently in Finnish society, but I regret to admit that with my skills it will no longer be possible. The labour market in 45 years has become so rigid that recruiting a new person always goes to the highest possible level in the company, because recruitment itself is easy but adaptation is difficult or at least difficult mentally in small municipalities. The example of Germany, on which I would like and assume that the Social Democratic Director-General is aware, would be a good example of how to find out about this situation: the labour market needs to be made more flexible in order to create jobs — otherwise there will be no foreign investment in Finland and the domestic one will also run away.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u58	Mr President! Here I believe that both the Prime Minister and Mr Kääriäinen are hoping for constructive proposals, and I was very confused that the Prime Minister did not respond to two very specific proposals. The second, which has a major impact on employment and which would increase tax revenues, is this proposal by President Rinne to change the passive security, the distribution of money, active use and unemployment security to make this kind of active support, which can be brought into employment. The other, which is of great concern now to thousands, tens, hundreds of thousands of people, is the end of train traffic. It's only $13.5 million. If you were to reduce the car tax a little, 200 million would be just 186 million, we could prevent this cut, which is of great concern in the provinces. I would like the Prime Minister to answer the questions and not to tell us everything he has told us here many times since June to September.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u59	The Prime Minister will respond in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u60	Mr President! I didn't get to answer all the questions, but I'm gonna answer this right now. Active in unemployment benefit: It is in the government programme and we are happy to accept the proposals. Let that be our common goal. We need measures that create jobs and we also need active employment measures, especially for those who are able to work part-time and so on. We are happy to accept these proposals. As far as this VR is concerned, this is the kind of question the government is going to put in order. But the government is going to fix this differently than it used to, not in the way that money is always spent on the state budget, but we are going to find a solution that is better or better for the customer than the current one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u61	Mr President! It is great that the Prime Minister welcomes this Socialist proposal, and this is perhaps a good start for new cooperation between the opposition and the government. We have countless good proposals in relation to the elimination of unemployment, the increase in employment, economic growth and the draw on exports, and we hope that you will listen in the same way. But I was a little surprised by that response to that train traffic. Now we have a situation where transversal traffic is going to end mainly, and on the other hand this Siuntio traffic is going to stop, and those people are waiting for answers at this time, they are not waiting a year for those answers. I hope that this constructive proposal, which the SDP has now put forward, could also be considered here, reducing a little bit of the reduction in car tax, a little more than a million, and it would now buy this traffic in the course of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u62	Madam President! There has been much talk of it here, and the left-wing opposition, to which I read the Greens, in particular, stresses that saving and cutting is a government objective. They are not a goal, they are means. They are ways of saving the welfare society by creating more work. The government has been reprimanded that it stubbornly saves and cuts. The government stubbornly seeks to catch up with the 15% competitiveness gap we have in relation to other competing countries. As a result, we increase exports, increase work, increase tax revenue and receive more tax revenue for welfare services. This is the path the government stubbornly pursues, not savings, not cuts. We all know that they are difficult. It is good that the government has shown that it listens and reacts when situations change. This Sundays
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u63	Madam President! I find it confusing that the government stubbornly refrains from answering the question of the grey economy and tax havens. Even conservative estimates suggest that we will lose between EUR 6 and 10 billion. Finland will absorb some EUR 5 billion in debt next year. Should we not be the first to close these loopholes through which our welfare state is weakened? I find it surprising that the government is reducing the resources that the previous government put in the fight against the shadow economy. If you think about individual things, you double the fine, you get a little speeding, or you walk in the red, you get a double fine for low incomes. I do not take a stand on whether it is good or not, but at the same time it seems amazing that those who stole millions of dollars from taxpayers through tax planning are going to be actively allowed out of business through repentance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u64	Mr President! In his previous speech, the Prime Minister drew attention to the importance of our export sector, just like yesterday's Government communication. It states that our exports are the cornerstone of our economy. Against this background, last night, a large and significant share of Russian trade in Finnish exports rose here with me and others. It has historical reasons and is a very important part of it. It is therefore my wish to ask, although this is not Question Time, to hope that the government, together with the companies and organisations, will also have here — when we are on the West front, we are under pressure from a policy of sanctions — within the framework in which it is possible, an extremely good opportunity to safeguard the know-how and know-how that we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u65	Madam President! Just as the Prime Minister said, the creation of new jobs is certainly the most important task for this government. The economy will not rise unless tax revenues increase and, above all, if the healthy functioning of society in the open sector does not increase. There is a huge amount of investment in this country that is waiting, as it were, for permission to move. One example is the situation in Kontiolahti in North Karelia. The old garrison area was acquired by the municipality of Kontiolahti at the store. There are those old barracks, and there were no protection values in the area during the time when the Senate properties owned it. The National Board of Antiquities didn't do anything. Now that Kontiolahti Municipality bought it for itself and planned it — now the regional plan is ready and the construction is ready to begin — suddenly the National Board of Antiquities came and there are conservation values, and the whole thing stands for the future. Now that we have Anu Vehviläinen, the Minister for Local Government and Reform, in charge of this administrative sector, I would have asked: how do we proceed in this red tape? It can't be that the National Board of Antiquities, which used to be quiet about it, all of a sudden,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u66	Madam President! For three years now, we have been on a continuous decline in industrial production. In this Chamber, it seems that it is unacceptable for risk-takers and businesses to be given an advantage. I think it would be very important for this nation that this Chamber should expressly accept that it is worth taking a risk and employing and, on the other hand, that it is worth working for. During the last parliamentary term, we had the means of cutting — as was the case today when we had to cut — and then adding the same amount of taxes. And if it didn't work out, there was still a threat that we would cut more and increase taxes. We now see the result that this has led to. We must now, as the Prime Minister did in his opening speech, make the balance sheet and everyone else available. And that requires that we acknowledge that there are times when we have to cut temporarily and then turn the wheels on again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u67	Madam President! Representatives of the government parties have called for alternatives from the opposition. It's only fair. It would also be fair to admit that those options have been offered here. Here is another: the government is reducing the employers' social security contributions by 1.72%. This costs the State EUR 850 million. Similar measures have been taken in the past: 2010 Depreciation of the Kela levy, 2014 reduction of corporation tax. However, these measures, which have done almost EUR 2.5 billion a year with this new reduction, have not created jobs, have not led companies to invest. Instead, dividends have been paid out at an accelerating pace. Could this money, which you are now targeting, be used to invest in employment? My guess is that we would also actually see concrete jobs, concrete effects rather than these dynamic effects. These options are offered. Let's hope the government really takes them, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u68	Madam President! Mr Marin, the Social Democrats have used a rather modern way of presenting your alternative to an electronic trilogue: cut, paste and print. Lindtman's so-called option contains in itself good things, points of export-driven growth. There is an indirect compensation for emissions trading, a reduction in rail tax and fairway charges, a reduction in the tax on electricity for business. They're just excellent ideas. It's probably because they're directly from the government program. And as far as Mr Arhinmäki's idea that the black economy should be tackled is concerned, it is important, but if there are tax havens, there must also be tax hells. How much are we losing because, for example, business life and also ordinary citizens in Finland have such a high level of taxation? You know, sometimes it'd be like the left to think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u69	Mr President! Am I right to understand Mr Elo that you think it is quite understandable that funds are being transferred to tax havens because someone feels that our tax level is too high? Or, if we are talking about corporate taxes, it is actually worth comparing them with other European countries. The corporation tax was reduced during the last government term. At that time, Mr Vanhanen as CEO of the Federation of Family Companies and the Confederation of Finnish Industries promised that jobs would now be created, now that the corporation tax will be reduced, the dynamic effects will come. Unfortunately, dividends have grown at the same rate as fired. In fact, we have a very low level of corporate tax paid by companies at European level. In other words, the government must take this issue seriously both from the informal economy and from the fact that companies are transferring their profits to tax havens, so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u70	Mr President! I was not here last season, and in my previous role I was not enthusiastic about this corporate tax reduction — I said it many times in public — especially that it was aimed at financing the taxation of equity in a way that, while you were in the government, you only tightened the dividend tax on domestic owners. You may have received some 300 million out of the 900 million, but most of the dividends paid abroad — about 60 percent of the dividends — were not affected by this tax evasion. You were able to take those dividends abroad, but you were burdened with domestic ownership. Such a rocking board, where domestic ownership is burdened, was not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u72	Mr President! I had quite a lot of hopes with me that there would be such development proposals. Fortunately, today they have started to come much more than yesterday. And it is indeed hoped that we will now begin a genuine debate on these different solutions. As Mr Rantakangas said in his first speech, it would be very interesting to listen to your proposals, Mr opposition, even if they were to reduce the role of municipalities. On the other hand, it would be very interesting to hear how you are prepared to make your own proposals. Are you ready when we talk about rail transport, for example, to consider whether rail transport will be put to competition, or would you prefer that? Do you just want more money, or should we just make sure there's a race on the rails? Maybe we'll have more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u75	Mr President! Now we're back on track. I agree with what has been said here about the fact that, for many people, this solution of yours reduces VR's purchasing traffic is quite unsustainable. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister of Transport, now Mr Jaskari starts talking about competition and opening up competition. Could the government now tell us what plans you have, because it does not warm up, for example, the Siuntian, that it is known that in six months time there may be a possible solution. You understand that, Mr Prime Minister, and Minister Berner. Can't you tell us now what these plans are, which is why they're secret to us? After all, you've brought in unfinished business like this before. Why is it not possible to say openly what is going on here too? It would be easier for us to deal with this. Is this a big secret now, how are you going to handle this railroad business?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u80	Mr President! The debate in this Chamber is very high-level. We have found a good example in the management of Nokia and in the destruction of Nokia. In fact, Mr Skinner's speech made my own contribution in such a way that we should instead discuss management, how we make use of the expertise of all employees in organisations, and thus improve productivity. In fact, the projects are currently experiencing, especially from the public sector, that they are a thorn in the flesh, and when the project ends, we can go back to the way we used to work. We should be able to move each of us forward to study how to do it, and when there are projects, they are to be used, not problems for us in organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u81	Madam President! After all, the government's top objective is to create jobs, and I would have asked the Prime Minister that when jobs are not created by themselves — we recognise that they are not created by the government, neither by the trade unions nor by the opposition, but by attempts to create them — what the government has done to support businesses in order to gain access to the market. For example, this bridge financing, which is given to businesses, is a good element in getting money into the cash register and increasing the volume and jobs created through it. But companies will then be sending out a message that even if Finnvera guarantees up to 80 %, the banks will then demand even heavy guarantees for the rest of it and will also take interest of up to 6 % on the over-guaranteed and funded capital, and this is what they are asking for in moderation. But what could we do, in line with the Swedish model, to get these small businesses into the world, to increase exports there too, because they have up to five times the head start?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u82	Mr President! There has been talk here of management — government management and corporate management. Surely a new approach is needed in both of these cases to involve society as a whole in these decisions, and I am therefore very surprised that the government has not been able to say, for example, what they will be replaced by. I find it very difficult to understand that suddenly competitive tendering on low traffic lines would lead to market-based behaviour. Could not Mr Sipilä, Minister of Ownership Steering, advise VR to develop their operations in such a way that there will be more customers for these train services and that they will then be able to maintain these trains? Yes, our starting point must be that the activities are being developed and not allowed to slip to the point that, in some way, the market is hoping that they will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u83	Mr President! From the point of view of everyone in Finland, from a baby to a baby, the most essential thing is that more work and entrepreneurship are created in Finland, and it is right that this is the tip that the government does a lot of work for. This debate, which has been taking place here, has been very strange. It is a very cold and hard policy that you in the opposition have basically said no to everything the government is trying to do. I was very pleased that Mr Heinäluoma gave his strong support to the government's efforts to develop earnings-related unemployment protection so that it would allow activity and even entrepreneurship. I would now like to ask the opposition: are there any other proposals which you support, which are included in the government's budget proposal or in the competitiveness package? Isn't it true that we should blow together? Savings are very difficult and painful. We are not happy to do them, but they are necessary. But it is also important that we know and know what kind of savings and cuts are made. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u84	Mr President! The government began its work with deregulation, and Prime Minister Sipilä announced the dismantling of standards and unnecessary bureaucracy, and this goal was fully supported by the opposition. But what is happening now? In fact, you are coming to regulate, to increase regulation in wage formation, to tackle the issue of holiday pay, the pay of sick hours. In addition, you will increase the regulation of children's rights to day care by introducing a needs test into full-time day care. Both of these regulatory measures do not increase the flexibility in the labour market that the right-wing people are calling for, but it brings rigidity to the labour market in Finland. It makes sense to allow wage formation to take place between the employee and the employer. And yes, we must have functional day care so that parents of young children have the certainty of their place of care and the possibility of working. These measures sound like my ear to anything but the liberalism that the centre and the coalition generally want to represent. It is a rather conservative policy, which in itself is acceptable to the Finns, but where is the liberal majority and where is the liberal centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u85	Madam President! A few speakers have raised concerns about the rail network and the continuation of rail transport. As a representative of the Government Party and as a North Karelian, I also have concerns as to whether the section between Nurmes and Joensuu will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u89	Madam Speaker! Mr Oinonen made an excellent speech about the fact that, in fact, passenger transport is being driven down by the Lieksa—Nurmes—Joensuu–Various rail links, and the concern arises as to the way in which industry can develop in the North Karelia and North Savo regions when these important connections are removed, the way in which people can move from one working area to another. This will also make it difficult for the unemployed to find employment. Prime Minister, you have also spoken here about the need for ideas on how to get unemployment benefit active. I have asked many times in the past whether there could be a change in the method of calculating this so-called protection rate of EUR 300, i.e. that it would not be monthly but could be calculated for the whole year, just as it was in the course of study aid. It would certainly make it easier for many unemployed people to accept part-time and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u90	Madam President! I think we all agree in this House that Finland must be better placed, that we cannot live in a state of stagnation or regression. We need decisions now, we need reforms, we need to look to the future, just as the Prime Minister has said in his speech. Decisions aimed at improving employment must be the starting point for everything. Together, then, let us break down standards and red tape, make it easier for people to try and live their daily lives. I very much hope that we will all be able to work together to take forward the government's leading projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u91	Madam President! Despite the criticalness of the MPs of the government parties, I believe it is my right to criticise the government's cutting policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u94	Mr President! For the record, Mrs Myllykoski is aware of the small thing that the government has done specifically for the most disadvantaged. One is the reduction of the Yle-tax by raising its lower limit, which means that 300,000 of the lowest incomes fall out of the Yle-Tax circle. There will be an increase in the guarantee pension, more money will be given for the development of informal care. Which means we'll find some of these here, but we should find more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u97	Mr President! Yeah, the government's social-political grip is really cold. There will be cuts from the most low-income people. They are — and I repeat once again: cuts in the housing allowance for pensioners, many cuts and increases in contributions for families with children, as well as cuts for older people with a high level of suffering through increases in service charges. All of these are targeted at the most low-income people. I would like to take this opportunity to ask once again whether it is possible for the government to change its line in this regard and to consider once again that these savings are not directed at the people most in need of that support. Then I come to the question of this employment: Work is the basis of social security, and that is what we all want. On many occasions, the Social Democrats asked what you think of these active measures that we are proposing. Nothing is said in the Government Programme, and when you look at the budget book, 95% of the Youth Guarantee will be cut, Employment appropriations for activation measures
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u100	Madam President! I very much welcome this debate, which has received quite constructive and new shades during this day, with the exception of one speech. I hope, Mr President, that the use of social media language will certainly not come to the Chamber of Parliament. This isn't where it's supposed to be. This is the highest place in democracy, and it must also be demonstrated by our own style and action. Mr President! The reason why I actually asked for this speech was, especially at the beginning of the debate, this particular type of division, that there is a business life and then there is the working population and so on. Should we not see this today so that we are all one Finland? If companies are in bad shape, it will certainly be reflected in the workers, if workers are in bad shape, it will be reflected in the companies. The interaction is quite mutual, and in this respect, for example, Mr Heinäluoma's proposals were excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u101	Mr President! Indeed, new proposals are also needed, and there has also been a good debate today, and I agree with the previous speaker that there is also the ability to listen. I, too, listened carefully to the Prime Minister's reply and was very pleased to hear him say that this proposal by President Rinne can be taken into consideration in the government. But when you referred to the government programme, then I went over it again, and there is talk of the fact that the government is going to tighten up the obligation to take up work and that the government is going to make decisions in this inclusive social security system, the idea of which is, I suppose, to work without pay in exchange for the support it receives. But this model of Rinte started out as being able to get support to find the job in the good private sector, i.e. do I now understand the Prime Minister's answer, that you are prepared to move a little forward from this government programme and indeed this kind of active support could be the solution to which unemployment benefit can be used, people are employed in a good private sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u102	Mr President! Of course, we are talking about savings and cuts, but above all about what options we have: where to cut, where to save. In our values, in green values, education is high. It is one of the basic pillars of Finland’s future, especially the future of our children and young people. Education cuts have been widely criticised by economists, researchers and educational and educational professionals alike. There are alternatives to the EUR 200 million cuts you have planned for next year and even more so for the parliamentary term. It would therefore be good to hear the Government's view on whether these options could be reviewed before the education sector is hit. We have proposed an alternative to the cut in the overcompensation of kilometric compensation, which the Ministry of Finance thought to be around EUR 170 million per year a few years ago. We have not proposed to cut the kilometric allowance in full, nor have we proposed to cut it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u103	Mr President! Very few Finns read that yellow budget book or have studied it more closely. That is why it is important what kind of big picture of this is passed on to Finns. In my opinion, the most important message that comes out of this is that the government is able to make decisions and decisions to reverse Finland's direction and reverse the direction of the economy so that we gain employment growth. Just as the Prime Minister said in his speech, Finns and Finland now need faith in the future. We need a climate in which businesses and entrepreneurs dare to employ, set up businesses and create jobs, and we need an atmosphere in which all Finns together believe that these too will be overcome when we only make the right decisions. Unfortunately, such an atmosphere is not created by the kind of action or proposals we have heard about part of the opposition, that is, that it is enough when we wait and wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u104	Madam President! In previous speeches, at least Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Marin have been concerned about dividends. According to the budget, next year the government will receive dividend income and share sales income of around EUR 2 billion. I am now somewhat confused on the part of the opposition about the economic rationale. Is it therefore desirable that we receive more dividends or less dividends? From the point of view of central government finances, is it better for companies to succeed, pay dividends and tax on dividends, which will become the welfare of Finnish society? I would remind you that dividends are also received by pension companies, private small-time pension savers who have secured their future years and, of course, by the state, as I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u105	Mr President! Mr Kiuru spoke wisely about dividends. I would have come back to this prime minister's top project. There has been a question of where the key project money comes from in the past. Now there are such rumours in the city that they are good for you too, Mr Prime Minister, that the government has spent the money on top projects, but has not yet sold those companies and has not yet received those dividends, and that now there is a forced sale ahead. I hope this is not the case, but it is said in the city that the government has hired consultants who put state property on meat. As such, I am not a great friend of state property, but it makes sense that when you sell state property it is done in a reasonable way. At least now I have some doubts as to the strategy of putting the balance sheet to work. What strategy will be used to determine which companies will be put into meat, and in what way will you compare the profits of these key projects with what Mr Kiuru has just said? If you, Mr. Prime Minister, could open this for me, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u106	Madam President! Representative Pauli Kiuru wondered whether the government would not accept dividends from state companies. They sure do. On the contrary, we have been concerned that the state is selling profitable companies, which is precisely taking the future away from children. It's like letting you in your pants in the winter, the fact that you heat up a moment when you sell the dividends of a profitable company, but soon those dividends won't come back. What we raised, and what we are concerned about, is that when we promised that the reduction in corporation tax would bring investment, jobs, dynamic effects — the Confederation of Finnish Industries promised it — it would in fact only result in more redundancies. For example, on Monday Nokian Tyres from your constituency announced that they would terminate 122 employees at the same time as Nokian Tyres distributed EUR 736 million in dividends.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u107	Madam President! When sold, there must of course be a strategy, as Mr Haglund said, and when sold, there must be a new target for that money. The question is whether the money in the new site will produce better welfare for the national economy, Finnish people than in the old one. This is what these key projects aim to achieve. Mr Arhinmäki rightly intervened, for example, in the case of Nokia. When talking about corporation tax, it makes sense to consider what has happened. The problem is that we do not know what would have happened if nothing had been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u108	Värderade fru talman! There has been talk of entrepreneurship and employment and key projects. They're all good things. Success must be allowed, and reward must be given. What is confusing about this government programme and the budget is perhaps just an attitude towards the market economy. In general, it is used to thinking that the state creates its foundation, creates opportunities for education, research and the market chooses those winners. Now we're in a special situation: The government takes a lot of ground, education and research, to Kempele, and then it chooses the winners. It picks the winners, sort of like in the planned economy. Now, so that Khrushchev does not get hurt, it must be said that in the planned economy, however, there was an investment in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u109	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you have asked and demanded, quite rightly, alternatives from the opposition to government cuts and, quite rightly, you praised the midwives who did so. For the fifth time in this Chamber, my dear Prime Minister, are you prepared to even consider the option proposed by the Greens for cuts in education? That is what we have been asking. That is what we have been calling for. Secondly, it is an important issue, it is a matter for us, and the Greens are fully involved in it. But it is a little difficult to be fully involved if the first one goes with the extinguished lantern during the summer, after a month we should make big decisions and the monitoring team has not yet met. How can we be fully involved in supporting the government if we do not even have access to the same tables to discuss the matter ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u110	Madam President! When I left this Parliament in 2006, the government seemed to have a nice amount of money. Now I've noticed,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u113	Mr President! The openings of the opposition have been betrayed here, but neither Prime Minister Sipilä nor the finance minister, Mr Stubb, in any way agreed to comment, for example, on the proposal in the left-wing group speech that VAT should be reduced on a temporary basis, which would lead to consumer demand, consumption, purchasing power, investment, help entrepreneurs and boost the economy. Fortunately, Mika Lintilä, the chairman of the tax section, with whom I was with him yesterday on Politics Radio, said that, in his view, this temporary reduction in VAT was a very good experience in England. What is the point of making new openings, new proposals if the government does not even agree to comment on them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u114	Mr President! Mr Skinner raised the German Government's work. As far as I'm concerned, it's exactly what he said. However, I have never denied the participation of employees in the Board of Directors if they have the same skills as the one required for the work of the Board of Directors. In Finland, it is possible to include all those who agree... [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeLehti,I request that the speakers be heard. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u117	Representative Skinneri, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u118	Mr President! As I said earlier in my own speech, I believe that it is the legislation that allows us in Finland to involve the staff in this decision-making process. I really did not mean whether or not Mr Lehti would have done so. Similar legislation exists in other Nordic countries, such as Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u119	Then the Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u120	Mr President! First of all, about this VR, we'll tell you more about it in the next few days. Representative Myller, VR is working all the time to make its operations more efficient and respond to a competition that has become tougher. For the benefit of our customers, ticket prices have come down. Someone was referring here to a basic income experiment. Preparation of the model will start shortly, and the goal is to start a basic income experiment at the beginning of 2017. We are also very much in favour of all proposals in support of the reception and employment of work, and this could be part of Minister Vehviläinen's pilot package. New practices will be tried out in a regional, limited or agreed way and applied together when progress is made. Mr Arhinmäki, I fully agree with the grey economy. There would have been no economic crisis in Europe if the shadow economy were under control. If I remember correctly, 1700 billion is a problem at European level. On the Finnish level, almost the same, up to 14 billion have been said. The government will continue its efforts to defeat the shadow economy. The Ministry of the Interior has assured us that the police will continue their work. As I recall, a group of 60 professionals are constantly working for it, and the work of the Tax Administration and Customs to combat the informal economy continues. You also mentioned corporation taxes, and that was discussed. It is now competitive, and I think it is evidenced by this recent merger, in which Finland became domiciled in this united company. I believe that this competitive level of corporate tax will be reflected in this way. Representative Skinneri, employee representation. I agree exactly with you. Local agreement and increased representation of staff go as well as the same foot. They're working on it right now. In a couple of weeks, we will have the first suggestion on how to proceed here. Mr Tuppurainen, I look forward to the debate on the dismantling of standards when we talk about reducing municipal tasks by around EUR 1 billion. There we will not be able to move forward without the dismantling of standards. Representative Myllykoski, interesting observation of Senate properties. Obviously you pointed out that it could be privatised or some of it could be privatised or otherwise used better than the balance sheet. We will be happy to consider this. Representative Haatainen, on page 14 of the Government Programme, contains measures to improve employment and competitiveness. Our objective is to create 110,000 new jobs and to raise the employment rate to 72%. Congressman Haglund, owner's strategy. As a stable supporter of the market economy, you will understand that the state, as a large stock exchange owner, is probably not presenting unfinished business. In my opening speech, I promised to bring in the owner's strategy in the spring, where the answers can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u121	I'm sure he still wants to go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u122	Madam President! Perhaps this ownership strategy is the first question. If we now consider that the key projects are financed by the revenue they sell, then perhaps the ownership strategy – although I support that it will come as a whole – will be over for a number of companies if they have already been sold and put into meat. That there's a problem with my schedule. Now for this gray economy. Last year, when the Audit Committee has also drawn attention to the need to continue to fight against it and the proceeds from the recovery of the proceeds from the proceeds of crime have increased significantly over the last period, with the legislative reforms, I think, of twenty million, now that the government has lowered its expectations from 50 to 30. In other words, whether the idea of loosening the grey economy
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u123	Madam President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for commenting on the basic income experiment — I will continue with this. This is the most interesting reform project and an example of an experimental culture, which the Green Group, at least, strongly supports. Instead, we are a little concerned about how the experiment is to be resourced. When I looked at the Prime Minister's preliminary report, the start-up project on this issue, I calculated that if these resources that you are now giving to the basic income experiment are to be carried out, the basic income experiment will be limited, i.e. with minimum benefits, to a maximum of a few thousand people. I would be interested to know whether you will be able to get the experiment to a sufficient extent to draw conclusions from it during this term of government, and when these conclusions will then be brought here to debate whether it will be before the next parliamentary elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u124	Mr President! The cost of immigration will certainly be discussed and will also be reflected in the budget. And of course it is appropriate to suspect that much more money will go through this than is now foreseen in this budget, precisely because of these asylum seekers. Now I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior who is present whether Finland has no possibility under the Dublin Regulation to convert these asylum seekers who come to Finland through Sweden back to Sweden, because at least the website of the Finnish Immigration Service tells us that if a person comes to Finland through another EU Member State, he can be converted and his/her possible asylum application must be processed in the country through which he/she came to Finland. If we have news that busloads come from Sweden, then what is the problem here? Is there a problem with not having enough border checkers, or what is going on? Let's make a border check so we can
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u125	Madam President! Basic income is one of the few bright spots, Prime Minister, in your government programme. However, it is in the programme without concreteness, and we would also be interested to hear what kind of experiment might be coming and what basic income means to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u128	Madam President! The aim, as we all know, is to improve employment and create new jobs. The government is now in many ways facilitating the employment situation of companies, which in itself is a good thing. The biggest government gift to employers is a reduction in the social security contribution, which, according to Kela's estimate, costs approximately EUR 950 million. What is problematic about this is that the government is now putting employers in a position of inequality, since this reduction applies only to private companies but does not apply to the public sector at all. This is very similar to the deduction of the Kela levy, but at that time this discount was allocated to all employers and not to the private sector alone. I would now like to ask you, Prime Minister, why you are putting employers on an unequal footing. Why is the public sector treated differently from the private sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u130	Madam President! When Mr Arhinmäki has regretted the fact that companies are paying dividends, I want to comfort you, even to make you happy, that there is a company in our joint ownership that does not pay dividends despite billions of taxpayers' money being pumped there: it is Outokumpu. Prime Minister, as a business manager, you know that the success of the company is partly based on the expertise of the members of the board and on the work of the CEO. I may not ask you, Prime Minister, because it is not appropriate, but I hope that in Outokumpu's problems we will not wait for the corporate governance strategy papers, but will be dealt with quickly, because you, as a former business manager, also know that the structural problems in the company will not improve because they are expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u131	Mr President! Government talks about extending working hours confirm the perception that the government has been greatly alienated from the everyday life of modern working life in recent weeks. Of course, working hours are monitored; in many workplaces there are three overlapping hourly records — one for pay, another for customers and a third for health and safety authorities — but none of them have anything to do with actual working time, except for the time to return to filling the CRMs and Excels. The old saying of work psychology is: you get what you measure. When you measure working hours, you get hours, and when you measure results, you get results. The second question here is about the Siuntio and other closed stations. What is your message to the people who have built their homes near these stations and whose property will lose tens of thousands of euros when the train stops?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u132	Mr President! In the past, there was talk of Finnish work and actions related to key projects. This also involves the fact that, as a common country person, when you move around the street, you hear more than Finnish on construction sites, and many individual Finnish people buy more services from behind the bay, such as car maintenance or other tasks of this kind. I would draw attention to the fact that when we work enormously to create new jobs, we should at the same time remember that we are changing legislation, practices and the labour market so that Finns can be located in these jobs and that our services are competitive in relation to the services of our neighbours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u133	Mr President! When we have talked about these key projects and we have talked about using them for the sale of state property, and Mr Kiuru asked what the alternative output is, then VATT's new Director-General said quite coldly that a large part of the funding of key projects goes to agricultural development, for example, almost a third of the top bioeconomy project goes here to Makera. It seems a little old-fashioned, the measures do not seem terribly innovative. And when you look at the whole of these key projects — about a per mill of national economy — and when Minister Rehn said yesterday, for example, that these are the government's measures for employment and growth next year, but that these other measures can be expected until 2017, I ask: does the government have an assessment of how much results these will achieve here and now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u134	Madam President! Mr Tuppurainen asked where the Liberal delegation is now. I heard an invitation to take part in the debate. When much has been said about these two midwives, as the Prime Minister said, they immediately put forward the alternative that they could agree to cut the holiday money if it applies to everyone. Such estimates and such an understanding of the situation I would also like to see within the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u135	Mr President! I think it was President Kekkonen who became famous when he said, "That's what it is, if that's what it looks like." It does fit this situation perfectly, because when we look at what is happening here, yes, quite rightly, this fundamental right-wing government is about to intervene in wage formation by law. In this Chamber, then, a law would be introduced on sick pay, on holiday pay. I want to ask you what's at the end of that road. That auction may be extremely costly, and it does not, Mr Zyskowicz, contribute to Finland's competitiveness. Yes, it would be wise to leave that wage formation in the labour market. So is this day care. Mr President, this increases the bureaucracy of the municipalities. Juha Sipilä, you want to reduce standards from municipalities, but you actually produce full-time day care for families in municipalities. How much red tape does that add? It also jeopardises the functioning of the labour market by undermining the employment of parents of young children. Yeah, if it looks like it. This seems to me to be a rationing government and not to any right-wing government of an open market economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u136	Madam President! It must be noted that exceptional measures are also required in times of exceptional challenges. I think it has become clear to everyone that the government would have liked and, in fact, would still be happy to allow the social partners to find solutions in their negotiations that will improve our cost-competitiveness. Unfortunately, as the Prime Minister has said on several occasions, there was no agreement with the social partners on the objective of achieving a 5% cost-competitive increase in this competitive leap and then continuing with these moderate, ultra-moderate wage solutions. As I have already said, this wish for the social partners remains valid in order to avoid these laws, and, as I have also said, I would like the opposition to have the same willingness to participate as these midwives showed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u138	Mr President! Yes, Mr Zyskowicz, I think that the common goal was dictated by the people who wanted to tell them in advance that wages must be reduced by 5%. Mr President! We appreciate the agreement, the consensus, the cooperation. It has been Finland’s asset in history for a long time. I appreciate those speeches, Mrs Kääriäinen and others who see this coming. Yes, I say that when you do not necessarily want to ask Lauri Ihalainen who we offer advice here, ask for advice from Lasse Quality, for example. I drew attention to his excellent column in the morning paper last week, where he whistled to the government a penalty or offence — too many players in the field —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u139	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that I too think Lasse Qualitynen is a very wise and experienced man. As far as Mr Viitanen's argument is concerned, that the original aim was to cut wages, it is precisely the opposite. The means would have been left to the social partners once the target had been agreed. In fact, rather than cutting wages within the government, there has been a great deal of emphasis on the fact that a slight increase in working time would have led to an increase in the labour input without further wage costs or wage cuts. This talk about jumping into an EK booth: I do not know who has developed this good metaphor here, but I must now say once again that, with the aim of improving the competitiveness of Finnish work and business and thus improving employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u144	Time is running out, so still representatives of Pakkanen, Lindtman, Viitanen, and then Prime Minister to the end of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u145	Mr President! I am very surprised that there is talk here of wage reductions when the negotiations on the social pact failed. After all, the government has just offered a show in which holiday wages are arranged for those who have not received them so far. My question is: Where is the trade union movement when the government has to defend these approximately 200,000 people who have not had holiday pay so far?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u146	Mr President! Here Mr Zyskowicz asked why the assessment was based on the fact that if the government had taken up this SDP offer and had taken Ihalainen to form this agreement, that agreement would have arisen. Of course, historical results are never a guarantee of future profits, but here is a man who has made an agreement in even the most difficult places in Finland whenever it is needed. And the secret is that when you go to the negotiating table, you have to leave on an equal footing with all the parties involved. And who here has said that we should now increase the cost by 5%? No one's ever done anything like that. When you looked, for example, at the proposal of employees' organisations, there would have been immediate measures which would have had an impact next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u153	Mr President! It may be continued that, now that this was chosen to jump into that locker room, we now have a situation, Prime Minister, that you say that exceptional times call for extraordinary means, and that in practice, unfortunately, at the moment, means that we have a historic mess in our hands. Here, step by step, an explanation of the situation will change. Soon there will be a situation where everyone will be angry. Wage earners' purchasing power is being reduced, wage cuts are being sought — bad economic policy, humanely wrong. Entrepreneurs are absolutely amazed at what is going on here. And yes, Prime Minister, this will also cost manufacturers, for example, if this method is used to throw in the wastebin a common agreement. We're going to the strike wave, and that's where the factories are going to close. Yes, this assembly duo of the Confederation of Finnish Industries,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u156	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes from this canopy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u157	Thank you, Madam President. I will try quickly to go over these detailed questions. Firstly, this rapporteur. Isn't that one of those things we have to work out together? In June, I had a discussion with employee organisations and business organisations, and it was agreed that this liquidator was Juhani Salonius, who was very competent and experienced in this task, and everyone accepted this, and it was agreed together. Isn't that exactly what you're supposed to do? This was not up to the rapporteur, it was up to the will. Then this change security part was forgotten. It is with the elements that have emerged in these discussions that this element of security of change, that is the one-month conversion training package, or how it will be used in order to facilitate employment. In this debate, employees' organisations raised the issue of this continuation of occupational health care six months after the termination of the employment relationship and then the problem of these women-dominated sectors at the same time. A federal or a centralised wage solution? Of course, the government has no position on that. That is a matter between the social partners. I've never taken a stand on it, and I've never taken a stand on it. The key employment projects and means will be here in the debate at 6 p.m. this evening. We'll pick it up there. Immigration. When Sweden becomes a human being at that border, we have two ways. He doesn't have any papers. He's coming into the country illegally. He will either be returned from the border or he will tell us that he is an asylum seeker, and we will take him back to Finland and for processing. That is clear. Mr Toivola, I agree that immigration is also an opportunity for us. That is also the way we should deal with it. It's a basic income experiment. The details are still open. The aim is to be as good as possible, and this experiment has also been of international interest. There is going to be a parliamentary advisory board for pilot activities, and the government is still considering whether it should also be put on basic income separately. War reform. I do not know exactly why this monitoring group has not yet met, but I am assuming that it will meet as soon as possible. Someone asked about the weirdum. A good and functioning board operates in this situation — i.e. the board of directors of the company. Siunth. What is my message to the people of the Blessed? My message is that it will be put right. There were a lot of questions about the major projects here. The debate on key projects will take place in a week. Then there was the question of these separate funds. There are 2.9 million prosecutors, 10.5 million in the Tax Administration, 0.3 million in the open, and the police are targeting the money in such a way that the work to block the informal economy continues. Mr President! The ability of the public sector to finance existing services has been permanently weakened. We need to find a completely new approach and innovativeness and pragmatic solutions to how these services will be produced in the future. For example, here, at least in yesterday's debate, someone raised the possibility of digitalisation, and we need to be able to make much better use of it. Finns have an excellent basis for this, a technical base, but we have not been able to use it, for example, e-government and so on, in the same way that Estonians have been able to do behind the bay. They've offered to cooperate. We've taken it. We are working together to improve the information systems in social and health care, to introduce e-government and to make the same leap in education and training, so that we can make better use of digital learning environments and so on. We have a lot of work to do, a lot of opportunities to do, and that is absolutely certain that we will get through this too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u159	This matter is suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u160	Now let's go back to Daytable 2. to: Government proposal to Parliament for the state budget for 2016. The debate will therefore continue, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u161	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Budget Section of the Ministry of the Interior is one of the exceptional sections to which money has been added for the coming year on the basis of a parliamentary working group. In the government negotiations, 50 million were directed towards internal security and justice, which are very much needed. Of this, 28.5 million will be allocated to the Ministry of the Interior, of which we have shared this so that the greatest and most critical need is at the border, where 5.5 million of these additional funds are now being allocated in the budget book, but we will be allocating 2 million more, because we have estimated it to be the most critical, and the police will have about 20 million more. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that this increase in money for the whole parliamentary term has somehow achieved a good state of affairs, but we are well aware that next year, both for the police and for other internal security authorities, we will be able to manage reasonably because we are now able to meet the challenges, but the greater challenges with these frameworks will then come in 17 and beyond. The government is preparing for this by launching an internal security report project, which will carefully review the internal security situation and the new threats and we will be working together with the government and at the next stage with Parliament to set priorities, priorities and targeting and assess the needs in relation to resources, and I believe that this will provide a tool for us to be able to manage the good state of internal security in the coming years. The Government Programme has set the objective no more or less than that Finland is still one of the safest countries in the world at the end of the parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would focus on immigration during the closing speech: This has now been the basic saying, along the course of this few months, that it is better to act with a warm heart and a cold head. Now I feel like we're going to go with our heads hot and our hearts cold as we watch the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for restraint here, above all. We work at different levels. In Finland, we deal with the acute situation that, due to the uncontrolled migration of Europe and the disastrous situation of people in the countries of origin, they come to Finland. We will do our best to control the situation and help people in distress. At home, we are working to ensure that we are able, fairly but firmly, to separate and find those people who are in need of real help so that we can concentrate our resources on helping them. And in order for our system to be clear, we are developing it all the time so that we can gain the confidence of the citizens in the work we are doing. We are working at European level to find a solution to the current lack of control over migration to Europe within the Schengen borders, the Dublin area, the EU region, and also the lack of control of movement within the EU, within the Dublin system and within the Schengen system and the failure to comply with the agreed rules of play. The European Union is the forum in which we need to find these solutions. We have now made good decisions in Europe. We have been and are involved in sharing the burden of an acute crisis: Finland participates by taking 2,400 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece, but it is only a cure for this acute chaos that exists in Europe. But, above all, we are looking for solutions to help the situation in the countries of origin, in the countries of transit, in how we are able to intervene in the smuggling of human beings, in how we can steer migration towards legal and safe routes. The setting-up of hot spots in Greece is one of the most critical issues and has now finally been speeded up. The Director General of Frontex visited Finland to explore the situation in Tornio. In two weeks, under this pressure, we built an organisation centre that works so well that we are now looking for a model in Europe to deal with this issue. The Greeks have been building this for years. So we are looking for solutions pragmatically at different levels, but we must remember that while in Finland this is testing our society and causing widespread emotions, there is still genuine anxiety and suffering and people who need to be helped. But our system must be — once again — fair but firm.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u162	Thank you. — This speech by the Minister seems to give rise to replies and we will start with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u163	Mr President! Indeed, this situation is extremely alarming, and this applies to all European countries at the moment. It has come to the point that we were not prepared for this and that we are in deep trouble. It is clear that we too have this problem of receiving asylum seekers, and then the real question will be this integration. But, in fact, what you did not say at all is the main thing about this solution, namely what is happening in Syria and in the region where refugees are forced to leave. After all, there should be a Foreign Minister here, because these solutions are not in your hands. In order to put an end to this, we must find a peaceful solution to the crisis in Syria that will safeguard the human rights of the people in the region. If this is not achieved, this stream will continue and continue. We now have 4 million people outside Syria, apparently in various refugee camps, and as this crisis continues, there will be more and more and more. Does the government have some idea about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u164	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. I would have talked about this question of asylum seekers. It is good to hear that the Minister speaks of a warm heart and that it must be remembered that they are, however, individuals who are genuinely distressed by many, and I think it is important to remember that. Even in the big box, in the public debate, when we talk about these agreements, they are ultimately between states and are not in themselves binding on these individuals, and that in itself obliges us to meet every person who comes here. In fact, I would have liked to ask about this interview process when we go to screen people's distress and to make decisions. There was a story in today's Helsingin Sanomat that now a lot of new interviewers are being acquired, and it became such a picture that it is quite a lot of this kind of distance learning for these people who are selected for the job, and a few days from now. I would have asked how to ensure that — while we are in a rather exceptional situation, i.e. that such arrivals have not been seen, international conflicts are terribly multi-level — and perhaps become a citizen of such a concern that how to train people with this kind of education who are genuinely able to assess the different, multi-level needs, what different countries and communities have and what people are exposed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u165	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for having been able to keep the head of each of these things really cold. The general discussion has gone a little too far at times, and at times it has gone a little unimportant. But it is important to bear in mind that, even on the left, if there is opposition to tax refugees, then we also have to criticise the refugee status of living standards, because then, if we are really able to look at those people in need — and as is the case, every individual case is seen, as it should be — it is also in the interests of those really in need, that they can be taken into account and that the system is not blocked. In my view, this is what the government has rightly tried to do, as is enshrined in the government programme: to keep immigration policy under control. I would like to ask Mr Orpo: knowing that Russia is keeping our eastern border quite well in this respect, is there a willingness to move significantly if necessary, and there seems to be a need for us, our officials on the western border, from one border to another, to deal with this acute situation on the western border?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u166	Mr President! I would like to ask about the fight against the grey economy. As we all know, the shadow economy and tax leakage is a huge problem for our society. It distorts competition and deprives our society of its tax base. What measures are planned next year to combat the shadow economy and to stem tax leakages, in particular for these large fish? What kind of EU cooperation is planned in this area, and what are the resources available to combat the shadow economy? There is now little information on this whether police resources are being increased or reduced for this investigation. I would also like to ask about immigration: are there plans to make even bigger renovations to the integration system?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u167	Mr President! The amount of EUR 8 million will be added to the police item next year compared to the level of this year. Of this, 7 million will be allocated to the costs of asylum seekers. However, it has now been reported in public that already this year the police have had to compromise, among other things, traffic control and criminal investigation. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: has the government thought about taking action this year so that we can guarantee sufficient police resources? This situation has shown that the line chosen in Finland in terms of the number of policemen, for example, compared with Sweden or many other countries, has been wrong. A group of us policemen will not be able to deal with this situation, and now we need additional resources faster than next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u168	Mr President! It is true that the refugee situation has certainly surprised us in many respects, even if this should not have happened. If we have followed at all what is happening in Iraq, what is happening in Syria, what is happening in Afghanistan at the moment, then this should not be surprising at all. But we must remember that every asylum seeker, every family, every individual in Finland is treated as an asylum seeker and then, Representative Elo, is considered and determined who has come to Finland for what reason. Now there is an atmosphere and a debate that has come from Mr Soin in particular, whom I would have liked to see here as well. He has decided in advance that certain groups do not belong to Finland, and, for example, the Iraqis are already having a hard debate and are being returned even before any discussion has been carried out. Do you think this is right, because the Finnish Immigration Service has granted Iraqis, who have come from the middle of Iraq in particular, almost always these places of refuge to date? Is there such a thing as patience now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u169	Mr President! The budget book specifically states 'immigration is controlled'. So what does the Minister think is the structure of costs and the factors in the future, in particular, where immigration will be managed? Secondly, this week's debate in the Chamber has strongly criticised the fact that during the last period the opposition has been fiercely opposed to the reform of Pora III. That is not the case; the opposition merely drew attention to the abolition of the mobile police as a national unit. With regard to this and traffic control: what is the Minister's assessment now of the adequacy of traffic control and, in general, whether you believe that the statistics are true of the extent to which traffic control has been carried out on the road?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u170	Mr President! I too felt that it was a very bad comparison to put tax refugees and standard of living refugees on the same line. At the moment, we are in a situation where, in any case, there are very difficult conditions in all these countries which will become these immigrants who want asylum, there is no organised society there. It would therefore be extremely important for us to have a system within the European Union to bring migration on legal and safe routes. That's why I'm asking: How are we now building a common European Union asylum policy, because that is not what the Member States have wanted to do so far? Now, under duress, you're doing it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u171	Mr President! It is clear that the decision at EU level on internal transfers of asylum seekers has contributed to the attractiveness of uncontrolled immigration and human trafficking, and it is a pity that as a result aid for those most in need will be reduced. For example, this budget book shows that next year 300 fewer quota refugees will be taken in Finland than this year, not to mention other European countries. But now that we are talking about the budget, there is a great deal of concern here about how the resources of the authorities will be sufficient, when this number of asylum seekers has skyrocketed and when the budget base has been drawn up at a time when it was not known that we might have 30,000 or even 50,000 asylum seekers this year. How much do you estimate that the police, the Border Guard and the immigration administration need more resources than what is provided in the budget book?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u172	Mr President! Of course, the biggest issue in this section is now the issue of immigration, and against that background too, it is an excellent thing that the Internal Security Report was now decided to be brought forward to May 2016. In so many ways, these security threats have changed in our operating environment. But, Minister, Frontex will see how the Tornio Organization Centre works overall. I have to ask what it actually says about Frontex, the level of its operation, what it says about the overall contribution made by Frontex Member States in previous years. I have a feeling that this reflects the fact that the Member States have not put sufficient effort into this common border control and thus Frontex.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u173	Mr President! This budget, as has already been said, is perhaps too small an increase in immigration and internal security, and it will probably be increased in additional budgets. But another concern is that of the municipalities, or the way in which they have been prepared for this, is that in the future, even though they receive compensation for the first years, the municipalities will have to shape their own activities. The way in which municipalities are able to respond to this situation of immigration and asylum seekers is financial but also know-how, systems, tools. That is the second question. Second, this gray economy. This separate programme, which, in the previous period, produced quite good results, amounted to over 50 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u176	Mr Karimäki and then the Minister will answer for the first time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u177	Mr President! Europe has now faced one of the biggest humanitarian crises ever, and it is good that Finland is taking responsibility and taking refugees from southern countries, which are under great pressure from the arrivals. It is important to find legal and safe routes to avoid the loss of lives and solutions to the crisis. One option is, among other things, humanitarian visas, which would create safe passages to Europe. I ask Minister Orvo: has the possibility of introducing humanitarian visas been discussed at EU meetings? In Finland, many NGOs and citizens have done a wonderful job helping refugees to integrate and come to Finland. Perhaps what would help with integration would be that refugees would be able to take part in the work as soon as they came and do something meaningful. Has the government considered this point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u178	Now for the first time, perhaps enough at this stage for 3 minutes, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u179	Mr President! These are excellent questions, some way to go. First of all, Mr Heinäluoma started out for these root reasons. That's exactly what it is. The solution must be... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Minister for Microphones, with open mind. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u182	We will soon continue with the Minister, sometimes speaking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u183	Mr President! Last week, at the meeting of EU Heads of State, it was agreed that these reception centres, so-called hot spots, will be set up at the external borders of Europe, and border controls will begin there. I understand that this was also the case when it was agreed that it would only then be at the internal borders of Dublin that this mobility would last at least until November. If these estimates are true for those who come to Finland, as many as 40,000 asylum seekers can arrive in Finland before the end of November. I would like to ask, Minister Orpo: what can Finland do about the part that Finland’s attraction might slightly diminish at this current rate? Denmark, for example, does so to speak, to educate these asylum seekers through their own actions in different countries. My question is: are we up to date so that Finland’s appeal could be slightly reduced? After all, we are about to take measures to tighten up asylum policy, and in this respect we could also understand that our capacity to carry it is our ability to carry it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u184	Mr President! In a short period of time, we have come to a worrying situation as a result of the abolition of the mobile police. There are messages coming from police officers as well as heavy-duty transport operators and drivers: The police on the field tell us that these statistics look different than the reality itself, for all written work is recorded in traffic control. And it is reported that as many as 50-85% of police officers previously in traffic control are now doing other police tasks. In addition, there are concerns about the issue of heavy-duty transport operators and drivers. Currently, heavy traffic control does not have a national steering group. How do you intend to influence this and get traffic control?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u185	Mr President! Minister Orpo, you should be grateful for the determined management of matters when this acute flood of asylum seekers struck. The success of Tornio’s organization centre in a week has also gained international reputation. Last week I met an ambassador from a Mediterranean country and he told me that he was taking the Tornio model to his own country for implementation. You also mentioned that this process of asylum is being developed so that people can have a yes or no decision more quickly. And especially if that non-decision comes... Each person then has the opportunity to appeal against that decision. When you used the words 'justice' and 'chomp' in your presentation, I would like to know how we can guarantee these people who have received a negative decision a quick and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u186	Mr President! Lapland has the largest number of asylum seekers relative to the population, and we have more than 1000 people in Rovaniemi. However, the infrastructure is getting pretty tough, and there is no desire to find suitable facilities anymore. Similarly, volunteers have made a significant contribution to this work by providing and dressing these people, but there too, forces begin to run out and run out. I would therefore appeal to the Minister not to leave this maintenance of social peace to these volunteers, but to have sufficient resources, which you have already responded to. But in this regard, I would like to ask about the Tornio Organization Center now that it has been in operation for a few weeks. On the whole, how much has been registered there so far, and could you give us a quick look at how it has gone about working?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u187	Mr President! In addition to this acute process of reception, we must now all focus our thoughts on the future, i.e. this, in my opinion, the most critical phase of the integration process. Once they have obtained that residence permit, these refugees will leave the reception centre. In Sweden, we are now discussing whether the state will order municipalities to receive refugees so that they can be distributed more evenly across the country. We don't have that reception obligation yet. It would be important to make the reception of refugees work on a voluntary basis. It would create a positive atmosphere. I therefore hope that, as Minister, you, in particular, will bring to these loss societies the atmosphere of seeing opportunities for immigrants as well. When you told me that you had that meeting tomorrow, a meeting on these matters, I hope, for my part, that you would take ideas there about how to keep those refugees in those municipalities so that they would not run into these big settlements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u188	Mr President! There's a lot of people who need help. Above all, however, we must help those who are in the most vulnerable position. ISIS has been targeted especially by religious minorities, Christians and peoples. For example, there have been 1.5 million Christians in Iraq and now only 300,000. So for years now there has been severe persecution, and we can talk about a real massacre. While men are killed, women and children are victims of human traffickers and rapists. Minister Orpo, how does the government intend to help the Christians and the siestas persecuted by Isis, and will the government take these persecuted minorities into account when taking quota refugees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u189	Mr President! We have a wide range of questions from people, and I am now asking a couple of such general, frequently asked questions: Firstly, why should the border between the north, Sweden and Finland not close or prevent the influx of asylum seekers? I understand that this is not only possible under legislation and agreements, but I ask the Minister: in what situation, when would it be so bad that this could be done? Secondly, people are wondering, and I myself am surprised that, when we have, for example, the Dublin Regulation and the Schengen Agreement and they are now in a fairly brisk breach in almost all countries, perhaps it can be said that in almost all countries except Finland, there are any control and punishment mechanisms in these agreements for these countries, which are now operating in this way, which is what we are suffering here as the ultimate country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u190	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his humane statement on this acute immigrant-refugee situation. I would like to ask you a few questions about integration. After all, integration is not only humanly sustainable, but also sensible in terms of the internal security of the nation. When I visited the reception center, I heard many times a wish not to have to wait on nothing without doing anything. Is it possible that the state could facilitate asylum seekers' opportunities to work, for example, when a permit and decision are awaited? The means to do this would be quite common, starting with the right to open a bank account. My second question relates to education in Finnish, which is a key element in integration. Does the Minister consider that the additions now made to the draft budget are sufficient to ensure education in a good and comprehensive Finnish language throughout the country, and do you have any new means planned, for example, with organisations or with liberal education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u191	Mr President! This is where Iraq came up earlier as a country of origin. Let me be more specific from the Minister: do we really have different classifications between the Nordic countries, which are safe areas in Iraq, even in urban or provincial terms? And would it be possible to coordinate at Nordic level without creating differences, more attractive countries and destinations and thus away? That we could coordinate it. Another question, a little like this larger, bigger picture. If we look at Africa now, it is estimated that Africa will have a population of 1.3 billion by 2050. It corresponds to approximately 240 people in Finland. So are we now in the face of some big tidal wave, or do you think this is something that is now like this momentary that can be controlled?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u192	Mr President! In fact, I would like to say a few words first about this immigration situation and asylum seekers, as so many have said. The first thing: I myself was in my own municipality getting acquainted with emergency accommodation last weekend, and the first question is that the big problem now seems to be how decisions can be made for these people, whether they stay in Finland or not. They say it takes up to three years to process. My second question relates to the fact that how will this police visibility be handled in these reception centres and emergency accommodation areas? Could it be possible for police stations, for example, to be opened in the localities where there are accommodations, and would it be possible to perhaps then open secondary offices? Then I would like to go to the rescue services section, which has hardly come up in the debates here: now that the Minister is planning to link the rescue services to the future self-governing areas, how to secure the situation of voluntary firefighters at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u193	Mr President! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Orpo, for the good management of the asylum situation. But there is development. A government proposal in next year's budget would halve the number of police training: starting points would fall to about 160. At the same time, the retirement rate for the police is high: currently some 280 police are retiring within a year. This also undermines keeping the number of police officers at the current level. Finland already has few police officers in European terms in relation to the population. The European average is one police officer per 400 citizens; in Finland there is one police officer per 733 citizens. Last spring, a parliamentary working group was sitting on Parliament's side, which set out how to keep the number of police officers in the future at around 7,500 levels. Is the government giving up on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u194	Mr President! These days, the Finnish Immigration Service and others have said that in Iraq, three regions in the north and eight in the south are in such a good position that there is no need to grant them asylum. But of course the situation will change, as the Minister of the Interior said, but whether it is calculated how much can be in the reception centers to have people like this. Then people have also asked a lot of questions about the fact that, now that these people are going here as asylum seekers, especially from Iraq and the rest of the country, these people are not eligible for accommodation. At least I have seen that they often sleep there between white sheets. And I wonder if Finnish and Iraqi gastronomy are so different that in Oulu, for example, Finnish food is good for schoolchildren and children of the day care centre, but not for these asylum seekers. Pig meat has been removed. This is the cultural difference I'd like to ask you about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u195	Now, Minister Orphan, let's try in three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u196	Mr President! Let's go as far as we can again. Tornio first. In less than a couple of weeks, nearly 4,000 asylum seekers have now gone through the tower and it works well. Indeed, the model is being looked at, and I find it a little sad that in Greece, where it is the worst of all, they have been putting this up in their own centre for years. Minister of Interior Rajamäki said that he had already called for this in due course. But it's a good model, and it works. I think it was 600 on the record day. So we have really managed to get this thing under control through the Agency. Then people are sent to reception centres for asylum, which are trying to set up as fast as possible. We must give thanks to Finnish municipalities and operators that they are offered a lot, they are not running out. But raising them up, getting staff: SPR is doing a great job, but it still takes time. I hope that we do not find ourselves in any forced situation. But it is the civil servants' responsibility, and the minister of responsibility must also be prepared for different situations. That is why this mandatory legislation is also on the table, but I really hope that it will not have to be considered and that has not yet been discussed within the government. As far as municipalities are concerned, the State will, of course, contribute to the costs and it will continue to be linked to this entire financing. We are constantly monitoring the situation, and the government is increasing the budget, whether it is the cost of reception or integration on the TEM side in due course. Both have now been substantially increased, both in the amending budget and next year's budget. We're gonna hold on to this. This is not the kind of money you can think about whether to use it or not, but you have to. This further integration: New thinking is needed. And even though it belongs to Minister Lindström, a few words still. In my opinion, when it comes to such large amounts, we must involve Finnish society. Take retired teachers to teach the language or NGOs to help with integration. There are thousands of individual Finns in volunteer work. In fact, thousands have registered to the SPR for volunteer work, and this is the strength we should look at. As Finland, we have to go along with this, or else we will be in big trouble. But it still needs that rigid system, and — and I will return to this issue of Iraq, and therefore to the Iraq issue, that 70% of asylum seekers currently entering Iraq are from Iraq — because we have such a clear difference in criteria compared to other Nordic countries, which I still do not consider to be very inhumane, I think we have to go through this so that we can be convinced that we will act on the same criteria as others, and we can be convinced that we will check the situation in Iraq, that we will help those people who are in the greatest distress and that we will be able to concentrate on helping them. There are countless good questions here. I'll take some more. This part of the mobile police. We have had reports different from what Mr Kymäläinen referred to, but I promise I will go through this and make sure that things are going in the right direction. But it is clear that, now that we have so much police resources to channel into this asylum situation and secure people's sense of security in reception centres, it is out of place, it is a fact, and we are trying to look at this resource and point it to the right places. Stations, no, thank you. Wheeled, mobile police units to move and act quickly, it makes much more sense to spend money on the walls than to put money on the walls. This has to do with police training. I am concerned that we will be able to train enough police to replace retired people. That is what we are looking at at at the moment, and that is what we shall be returning to.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u197	Let us continue with the Minister at least one more time, and now let us speak on behalf of the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u198	Mr President! The heart is warm and the head is cold — that is what you, Minister Orpo, have indeed been. Thank you for that. In my opinion, the acute situation has been handled well under the circumstances. I have just come from the Council of Europe, and almost every Member State there is criticising the Dublin and Schengen agreements, so I do not think that any constructive alternatives will come from there to remedy the situation. But in your opening speech, you brought up the development of the system. Obviously, there has been some kind of development, if you could open up a little bit of potential system developments in the future, and especially what rapid measures are coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u199	Mr President! I ask Minister Orvo: we still have 70 million undivided funds and we will make the fourth amending budget. In your view, how much more money, resources, is needed to enable asylum-seekers to be processed within a reasonable time frame? At present, the main problem with many reception centres for asylum seekers is that people wait for weeks without knowing what they could do. And the second question is precisely that: how can they be guaranteed reasonable daily rhythms, language learning and the identification of their own skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u200	Mr President! First of all, thank you to Mr Orvo for his exemplary work on this acute crisis. But now we really have to go to these appropriations: As we all know in this Chamber, even though the economy is very tight, this is the kind of activity for which additional resources are urgently needed. It is a good thing that both the amending budget and next year's budget have these. But we have to ask: what is the reserve, but what should we expect next year, that, then, in future amending budgets, we will probably also need additional money if, for example, the pressure on Turkey breaks out or Africa is still rising? We all know that, in the worst scenarios, we are talking more about millions of people on the European continent, and it is clear that even more pressure is being exerted on Finland. In this respect, I would have asked the Minister: how do you look at that development even further next year, because it is nevertheless to be assumed that this issue will not end here in the second half of this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u201	Mr President! On page 216, the budget book honestly states that the availability of police services and also the quality of services will be slightly reduced. And especially myself, I have felt that these services have been further reduced in these peripheral regions, so to speak, in so-called sparsely populated areas. I would have asked about this: have these cooperation points — a strong role for the municipalities and other actors — been well established? And, in fact, from my own town, Mänttä-Vilppula, where is this reception centre at the moment: will there be additional resources for these, and with what timetable, that this licensing policy, which also relates to this reception activity, should be strengthened? And there's another question about non-governmental organisations: On the other side of the budget, we have a small amount of funding from non-governmental organisations. How do we get these 4Hs, patrols and Martas actively involved in this integration effort?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u202	Mr President! People are getting pretty hot right now and they're scared. I'd like to ask the Minister about our internal security. The Lebanese Minister for Education, Elias Bou Saab, estimates that 2% of people entering Europe would be Isis jihadists. If that is the case, we may have hundreds of them, especially since 80% of the refugees coming here are men. I used to get this refugee avalanche under the name of a death threat, and this guy died in a suicide attack in Syria. Have these been taken into account how carefully?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u203	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and Isis is scaring the world at the moment. And of course, especially if you think about these people who are running away from Isis, we can imagine that if that fear is here, what kind of fear is there when Isis is next door and there are hundreds and hundreds of them. This general state of affairs must of course be addressed, and this is not just a matter for Finland; it is a matter for Europe as a whole. And Unfortunately, Isis is not only in Syria at the moment, but Isis is very much also in Iraq, in many other countries, and this is also part of the reason why Iraqis, for example, are seeking asylum. I would like to return to my previous comment that, of course, these reasons must be looked at and, of course, re-evaluated, but I hope that this kind of debate will not be made public but will be decided and handled by our authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u204	Mr President! Asylum seekers must be received as humanely and fairly as possible, so that refugee status is given to those who genuinely need it, and I believe that other reasons must be taken back. More than 500 asylum seekers have entered Kajaani so far, and I am well aware that there are many of these issues there. I would like to ask Mr Orvo: is it still possible to conclude new readmission agreements with safe countries or countries classified as safe countries? And is it possible to legislate quickly so that at least these young people there will be able to work from the first day on, in any work whatsoever?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u205	Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Orpo for his good work in a difficult situation in the shadow of a controversial government programme. I would like to say to Mr Hakkarainen that, for the time being, there are only indications that asylum seekers are in danger in Finland. So far, all violence has been directed at them — by stones, fire bombs, fireworks — that is, only they have been in danger so far. And in that light, I would like to thank Mr Razmyar for his excellent initiative in the debate on racism and extremism, which we will probably catch up with in the next few weeks, hopefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u206	Mr President! A very challenging situation, a very difficult situation — a human emergency — in which Minister Orpo has done well on his own property. I'm sure we'll need some patience. Violence is not the answer on either side or otherwise, not in any form — not the bottles, not anything related to it. As Finns, we must be able to deal with this emergency and issue much better. In fact, I would like to ask you a few questions: firstly, these uniform return mechanisms between the Nordic countries, for example, in the return to Iraq, should be put to action as quickly as possible, and I agree with that. But how much debate are you currently having within the government about the challenges of education, social welfare and health services, for example, in these places of integration, where children need education and child protection, among other things, and other such social and health services, because this emergency is also quite obvious?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u207	Mr Yanar and Mr Juvonen, then the Minister. Then let's try to move on to the next section.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u208	Mr President! Representative Tanus has a little educational tip that Isis does persecute Muslims, too, that people are being helped on the basis of need as before, thank you. In fact, Mr Tanus' thinking is directly related to Timo Soin's thinking, the foreign minister's thinking. How does the Home Secretary see this? What kind of opinions do you have on this? The second is the views of the Minister for the Interior on what kind of European human resources could be used to deal with this situation of asylum, what kind of investments should be made in the neighbouring regions. We were talking about a humanitarian visa. You didn't answer that, did you? What is Finland's position and what is your position on it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u209	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I am sure you are under great pressure at the moment, and it is your job to thank you for that. I would have asked about the situation of these minor asylum seekers. In what amounts do we move, and in what way are they then directed from there to places or destinations, and what is their situation? The second question concerns refugee camps. Will the refugee camps be the ones who really need help, and what is the situation there? Then it's right here for national security. After all, the government's goal is to increase security and that feeling. The transport culture has now exploded a little. There's a lot of these red times, and there's no respect for the safe road anymore. What can we do about it? The police often shine with their absence in traffic there. Also this increase in drug drivers: up to a third of drunk drivers are under the influence of drugs. In what way could this transport culture, too, get its attention, and the police, too, be prominently represented there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u210	Now Minister Orphan, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u211	Mr President! Very good questions. Let's start with that refugee issue. The situation in refugee camps is now almost catastrophic. There are millions of refugees in and around Syria’s neighbouring countries and countries of origin. I am pleased that the European Union has decided to allocate EUR 2 billion through the Trust Fund to these regions of origin. A billion funds are planned for the Syrian region. We have also been able to — Minister The future would be able to say more about this — to ensure that, although development cooperation appropriations have been cut, they do not target these countries of origin and transit countries, which is a very important issue. Then this access to work has been mentioned in many speeches. We're working on it. Finland has had a reasonably short period of time, about 3 months, if you have the papers in order, and you get a work permit. But we'll see. As I said, this integration — Mr Lindström is not here — must now think again in this new challenging situation. But the faster the integration into Finnish society, the language is taught and the start of working life, the more successful this will be. Furthermore, Mr Kankaanniemi asked about Dublin, Schengen. I really think it is a very central problem that they are not being complied with at the moment. Finland is using forceful speeches in all contexts to ensure that the southern borders of Europe must be managed — or migration — and the Schengen Agreement must be adhered to. But now this is out of control, and that is why strong action is needed to get this thing moving. This then relates to the Swedish border issue. If we start internal border controls, that does not prevent any asylum applications from being submitted to Finland. We are members of the European Union, we are members of Dublin, we are members of Schengen, we have international human rights agreements. If we were to make a fence like Hungary, then it would be a little bigger foreign policy issue. I think it will have to be discussed with Foreign Minister Soin, among other things, what it would look like if Finland were to do so. Isis — a plague and a very big problem: From the beginning of the week, I myself had the opportunity to attend a UN meeting against Isil, with more than a hundred countries. Over 60 countries are in the coalition and are committed to fighting Isil. It is the international cooperation that beats this shocking movement and calms people's living conditions. As far as helping refugees is concerned, Finland has been there for about a thousand people and will hopefully continue to be there. I hope that it will be possible to put an end to this uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers and to help people, especially in refugee camps, and that it will then be possible to start by identifying and helping those most in need. That emergency, the human emergency, is the central and first starting point. Just give me a second.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u214	All right, thank you, Minister Orphan! — The Ministry of Employment and the Economy is now in the administrative sector, and its debate will begin with a five-minute presentation by Minister Rehn. - Out of the toilet, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u215	Madam President! Finland urgently needs new jobs and growing companies. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy is the Ministry of Sustainable Growth, which is reflected in the investments made in this section. The essential thing is to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production, both the structural competitiveness of a longer period of time and the cost competitiveness of a shorter period of time. It is precisely because of employment and growth that the government has made proposals for solutions that would be able to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production relatively quickly. It is therefore to be welcomed that the social partners are now negotiating with each other. Maybe after two failures, the third time's the charm. If the organisations are able to agree together on concrete, effective means of achieving the objective of improving competitiveness, the government will be prepared to take this into account. We now have the opportunity to achieve a threefold increase in employment: firstly, a rapid correction of cost competitiveness by 5%, followed by a moderate wage settlement and the determination of wage standards in the export sector and, secondly, to promote local reconciliation and, in parallel, to strengthen the position of staff in business decision-making. No one should lightly reject such a solution for ideological or other reasons. In the sense of normal urbanism, this would also be of interest to the EK, because such a solution would improve Finland’s competitiveness quickly and surely. Now, if we ever have to look at it from a national, not an ideological point of view. The creation of jobs requires companies that are growth-oriented and capable of doing so. In order to improve the financing of businesses, through existing and competent financial institutions, we have gathered growth funding for key projects covering a three-year period and consisting of several different parts. These are at the heart of the TEM section in this budget book. I will crystallize these into the following three main plots: First of all, growth programmes and the commercialisation of innovation, which will amount to more than EUR 190 million in three years. We target growth programmes and Through Tekes, the commercialisation of innovations, including the bioeconomy and cleantech, will be increased by more than EUR 150 million over three years. In addition, Teollisuusinvest Oy will be capitalised with an additional capital of EUR 35 million with a view to Fund III of the Growth Funds. Secondly, the mid-term financing of growth-oriented SMEs will be strengthened by directing Finnvera's new loan facility to EUR 300 million. As part of this key project, we are preparing for the introduction of a new intermediate financial instrument, which is indeed aimed at launching this EUR 300 million junior loan programme in early 2016. Thirdly, support for renewable energy, EUR 100 million in three years. In other words, we invest heavily in companies' investments in renewable energy and in major energy technology pilot and demo projects. A further EUR 100 million will indeed be allocated to this. Therefore, through the key projects, I wanted to point this out, because yesterday this was discussed quite a long time ago and I did not have the opportunity to talk about it. In three years, more national enterprise funding will be generated through major projects totalling almost EUR 600 million. In addition to these national contributions, one of the key projects of the Government and Finland is to make effective use of the European Investment Fund. As a result of national, European and private contributions, additional investments of at least EUR 1 billion on top of the current level could be made on an annual basis in Finland. Madam Speaker! Overall, these efforts at national and European level are an important contribution to business growth, development, internationalisation and employment. This will help create new jobs and sustainable growth in Finland. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u216	Let's move on to the conversation. I would ask those who wish to speak to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u217	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. It is with particular joy that we note these contributions to growth that are now being made to the bioeconomy, both at national level and through the European Investment Fund. I'd get involved in this role of Finnvera. Finnvera will be given 300 million additional loan credits, but has there been any planned changes in the use of this money, since Finnvera is currently working with banks, especially with Finnish banks, and now we have a lot of projects that would receive funding from foreign banks, and now our rules prevent Finnvera from being able to be a partner with foreign banks. In some cases, this has occurred:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u218	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good proposal. We in the government have created a number of good top projects, and we also have a difficult situation when our exports in relation to imports are in deficit and, indeed, the conditions for business should be developed very strongly. So there are good things about the business environment. With regard to the EIF, the European Investment Fund, I would have asked: what structure and timetable will this be used to get marketing started, to get this billion euro well out of it? What sections is it divided into, how much public funding is involved and how much private funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u219	Mr President! Indeed, first of all, when it is generally argued that the government is cutting off product development and research, it is not appropriate to accept this claim as such. If it is considered that already in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment some EUR 100 million in total is the pot that will now be added through the key projects and will be added to it the circular economy contributions of education and culture and, for example, of the Ministry of the Environment, it will be the same size as the reduction in Tekes' assistance mandates, about EUR 130 million. Moreover, what the Minister has pointed out here is that lending powers are increasing in Tekes. These investments are about the same. What is important now, of course, is that these are used effectively. And perhaps I would ask the Minister again, now that there seem to be as many as three new items here — we have EUR 30 million in the administrative category for cleantech and bioeconomy solutions, then there is a new item for regional pilot projects and then there is a new item on the energy side for renewable energy, new energy technology investment aid, in addition to the traditional energy aid measure: How do these rules differ from the fact that they are all under one investment aid item? Why are these separate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u220	Mr President! Finland is a country that has traditionally had the goal of being a world leader and a pioneer in its competence. Arctic expertise is a sector in which a country such as Finland should invest significantly more. We already have expertise today, for example in shipbuilding, we have icebreaking expertise, which is top of the world. Of course, there is a threat that the existing knowledge will fade, and that is why the shipyards must also be supported. But we also need to support a high-quality education system and invest in the kind of knowledge that through education and research opens up opportunities for us to be the top country of the Arctic expert. I ask the Minister what plans the Government has for promoting Finland’s Arctic expertise and how the Government intends to ensure that Finland becomes the top country of Arctic expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u221	Madam President! I'd like to offer the government one tip. In Finland, the pharmacy business is now regulated, and as a result, in Finland, medicines are more expensive than in other Nordic countries, about 10 per cent more expensive than in Sweden, although in Finland, the wholesale price of medicines is about 10 per cent lower. This means that, since we do not have competition, consumers are making a direct transfer of income to pharmacies. Finnish residents spend approximately EUR 2 billion per year on medicines, and Kela will replace approximately EUR 1.3 billion. If the competition could achieve savings of at least 10%, it would be directly out of Kela about 130 million. From the Nordic countries in Norway and Sweden, which freed up competition, it is clear that supply has increased and the price of medicines has fallen. This could also be changed in Finland so that the current licence would be granted on the same principles as today for all those who meet the conditions, and that would enable us to achieve competition. There would be no fear of companies from abroad taking the money from Finland to the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u222	Mr President! Active entrepreneurship and industrial policy and active employment policy are not mutually exclusive, as some people in this Chamber today seemed to think. The long-term unemployed are often not employed in an open labour market, so support measures and wage support are needed to prevent prolonged unemployment and to cut unemployment periods. Long-term unemployment is the big thing that gives us a sustainability gap. Even now, this year, when there are insufficient wage subsidies and they will continue to be cut next year, how will we be able to deal with long-term unemployment and achieve the goals of long-term unemployment that is contained in the budget book? On the other hand, we want to encourage entrepreneurship, but is it not a little contradictory that start-up money will be cut next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u223	Mr President! I appreciate Minister Rehn's view that, now that we are trying to reach an important solution between the social partners and with the government's involvement, it is not for ideological reasons that the employer is going to go ahead with this, but to see this national interest go beyond what we are trying to achieve. It was a valuable view. I had the opportunity for four years to sit where the ministers I appreciated are now sitting, and then few weeks in the opposition were presented such a billion-dollar growth fund as a remedy for a little one and another economic problem. Well, each of us understands that this was not possible, and it is not reflected in this budget either, but that the growth funds of the last regime are now being capitalised, which is probably the right way. And the concern in all of this is: if we do not get exports to withdraw, investments in Finland and this domestic demand to pick up, Finally, I would like to ask: why is this not a key project? [President MariaLohela: Now is the time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u226	Mr President! Minister Rehn's speech made very clear the challenges facing Finland's economy. The government's key projects show will and determination to improve the situation in our country. As key projects, cleantech and bioeconomy are areas where Finland has excellent expertise, on which companies can develop new industries and jobs. At the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, their impact on the economic situation has certainly been clarified. It would be interesting, Minister for Industry, to hear your assessment of how investing in the bioeconomy will affect the competitiveness and success of our country in the international market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u227	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the Government's programme, which is related to growth, development and internationalisation, but my concern is great when I look at the TEM administration as a whole. Yes, Mr. Mykkänen, there will be surgery. Despite these efforts, we are in the cold. What I am really worried about is that while you are talking about an experimental economy, about experimenting in Finland, and that is a good thing, at the same time more than 100 million will be cut from Tekes, that is, just what could be tried out. How do you, Minister, ensure that these growing small and medium-sized enterprises are really allowed to experiment with their innovations and put them into practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u228	Madam President! In the last 15 years, employment in Finland has mainly been taken care of by small and medium-sized enterprises. The risk of employment has been taken up by small enterprises, which have grown in product development and in part also by Tekes' product development and are growth-oriented. Product development support for small growth enterprises has also been recognised as the best investment in society in the Ministry. I would like to ask Mr Rehn: is it possible to move the cut of EUR 130 million from Tekes in order to cut back on some other form of business support?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u229	Mr President! The importance of these key projects may still not be sufficiently understood: they have the opportunity to allocate resources to these new growth areas, as Mr Kiviranta mentioned here, for example, and this is extremely important. They do not replace the cuts in education, but the cuts in education lead to the renewal of old structures on that side and, at the same time, to these growth sectors of the future, to the cutting edge of these projects, it is a truly wise and responsible policy. I would ask Minister Rehn: has this budget secured national EU contributions so that we do not miss out on EU funding for projects where it would be possible to obtain it because the synergies between municipalities and the state do not have sufficient counterpart funds? And then I'd like to ask you if you could estimate the budget a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u230	Värderade Talman! Representative Kankaanniemi is very grateful for these key projects and apparently trusts whether I would say blindly that the government will be able to select those winners on the market, which may not have been the most effective way in a market economy to screen them for chaff. That is why I ask the Minister: how does the Ministry ensure that these key projects are indeed the right ones to invest?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u231	Mr President! The government has decided that these will be carried out in a technology-neutral and cost-effective order. This is the order of things. It will achieve the best results. The government itself, as I understand it, is not in the process of deciding which companies or sectors, for example, are doing this, but rather technologically neutral and cost-effectively. Mr President! Now that I have been given the floor, I would like to return to this point raised by Mr Sarkkinen, mainly on social security and unemployment security, on the employment budget: I believe, however, that it is the government's intention to increase inclusive social security, in which social security is to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u232	Madam President! Finland has recently produced two distinguished Arctic reports. One was drafted by the emeritus politician Paavo Lipponen for the EK as the Northern State of Mind, and the other is the Arctic Report of the Prime Minister's Office, which mentions four growth drivers: tourism, energy policy, sustainable extractive economy and the bioeconomy. A touch of determination is needed to get these good projects in motion. The President shall also: Niinistö has raised these Arctic issues and emphasised cooperation with Norway. My question is: what is the government promoting in terms of the Arctic?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u233	Madam President! The bioeconomy is one of the government's top projects, and I think it is perhaps the most important one there. In any case, the potential for renewable energy is recognised and Finland's goal is that in 2030 renewable energy will amount to 50 per cent of total energy. There is practically no limit to wood in our forests. Additional cuttings of between 20 and 25 million mots are entirely possible compared to the current ones, some of which are also of this much-talked energy wood and, fortunately, most of the fibrewood and logs. However, Minister, I ask you, when we have a lot of these chp power stations that use both wood and peat in joint combustion, and that is the best cocktail in terms of combustion technology and energy production: how do you feel about the fact that, when wood is being burned, we will also need peat in the future, and that means that we have a lot of good projects that are standing through a hopelessly late permit – we have a situation where it may take ten years to issue a single permit, which is an unreasonable time for, for example, the investment of an entrepreneur? What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u234	Let's take representatives Aalto, Eestilä and Eloranta, and then Minister Rehn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u235	Madam President! As a bioeconomy man in the provinces, I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Rehn, that when I have waited a long time to see my hands in clay, when we could do combined heat and power generation in the north of Central Finland, chp production — to which Mr Hoskonen has already referred — what you are actually doing to promote this. Is it possible that the feed-in tariff is going down completely, which would make it possible for small-scale chp to be supported in order to exploit the waste from these animals, to exploit over a year's hay, to exploit the harvesting wood there, and to enable that small-scale person to feed it into the public grid and to earn a little income from it if there is an excess? Do I have any good things to take up north to Central Finland, Mr Rehn?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u236	Madam President! I'd like to ask Minister Rehn about corporate finance. We have an industrial investment, Tekes and Finnvera, which have a slightly different task but the same goal: to increase work and enterprise in Finland. I have received feedback from entrepreneurs about Tekes, for example. There used to be a loan and support component in roughly equal form, and today, according to my information, that is no longer the case. Is this something wrong? At least the companies felt it was good. And the second question concerns Finnvera: According to the information I have received, Finnvera has changed the allocation of funding so that start-ups are no longer much favoured but are targeted at those companies that are in a way receiving secondary funding. And when these start - up companies are having major problems with collateral values to get money from the bank, they are, as it were, getting a little run over. Is this knowledge truthful?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u237	Madam President! Without knowledge there is neither work nor growth. It seems strange that the government calls for Finland to rise with innovations and at the same time cut off basic research and science and also Tekes' competitive research funding. The whole Finnish innovation ecosystem threatens to fade, and at the same time Finland's export-driven growth-driven future, which is created only by its pioneering expertise, is at stake. It feels like we're eating a little like our food for the future. Mr President! Drug development would be one area where there is still enormous economic potential. The pharmaceutical sector should be a strategic choice for us Finns. Setting up a pharmaceutical development centre in Finland would be an important step in the right direction for the model of other European countries. It would provide a simple, cost-effective and effective way to create new export-driven business in Finland. I really hope that the government will understand the growth potential of the pharmaceutical sector and do what it can to set up a Finnish pharmaceutical development centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u238	Secretary Rehn, from his seat, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u239	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these strong speeches, comments, questions. In three minutes I will try to answer these 30 or so speeches and questions, and then we will continue with the following replies. First of all, Mr Turunen asked about the change in Finnvera's operating model and whether it could be thought that Finnvera could cooperate with foreign banks and financial institutions. I believe that this is a quite legitimate question — not least because a major Finnish bank has transferred its head office activities to Stockholm and these borders are blurring, especially in the Nordic countries and the euro area. So this is certainly something that should be clarified, and we will do so for our part. Funding is also often European on the side of public funding. I am referring to this European Fund for Strategic Investments, and in this respect too, I believe there are grounds for clarifying this issue. Mr Pirttilahti asked about the timing and focus of the use of this European investment funding. The timetable is that, from the beginning of next year, this new system should have been driven in Europe as a whole, and our objective is that Finland should be a pilot country for a country in northern Europe that has suffered from severe industrial restructuring and is also able to reform itself through European investment funding. That is the message that I have given to both the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, and the President of the European Investment Bank, Mr Hoyer. So we're on the road here. Next week we will be launching this activity, and this will focus on three areas, i.e. larger innovative industrial investments, as the Äänekoski bioproduct plant has already been able to do, secondly, on infrastructure investments that require a combination of private and public funding, and thirdly on strengthening the financing of SMEs, where Finnvera will act as at least one of the key intermediary organisations. We will also build a project advisory service to advise companies and public authorities on how to use this European system. Mr Ihalainen said that this multi-million-dollar growth fund is not reflected in this budget book. In fact, when we put together these funding for key projects specifically from the point of view of business financing, it will amount to around EUR 600 million over three years, and if we are able to achieve the objectives we set for European investment funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u240	Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u241	Mr President! During the summer and autumn it became apparent that a large number of Ely centres, almost all of them in the end, had difficulties with sufficient funding for employment, start-up and other funds. More specifically, in the context of the additional budget, it became apparent that the Ministry and the Ely Centres' information on the adequacy of the appropriations went at different paces of power. I would like to ask when, in this digital age, it should be addressed whether the Ministry has already intervened in any way. There should be better information. It was not just a question of sufficient appropriations but of not having real-time information that would have allowed them to be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u242	Mr President! In fact, getting jobs is the most important thing in getting Finland’s economy up, and in this sense these key projects presented by the government seem to be very good. But when, for example, the bioeconomy, which has been on the table here, receives EUR 300 million over three years, of which EUR 100 million for agriculture, for example, the Minister of Finance, Stubb, as soon as these key ideas were announced, announced that it would provide two smaller biopower plants or one larger. I think bioenergy is a good thing, but we should have a higher look, we should get more kilos of wood. How are these key projects going to make it possible for us to really get a new price per kilo and more products, new products?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u243	Mr President! Representatives Hoskonen and Aalto took my question into account. But last season there was a left and a green one here and there was a lot of talk in the government about the bioeconomy and renewable energy — and what happened? We had an unprecedented amount of coal in this country. These speeches and practices do not go hand in hand. But the government's top projects are the bioeconomy. Has this decentralised energy production, which was referred to as ‘chp plants’, been considered? At the moment it is EUR 750000, but that money is not available, these are very expensive facilities. That aid must be increased to EUR 2 million, and that will be the start of this and will certainly create more jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u244	Mr President! Sweden has chosen a model for export to promote international exports. I am now quite concerned when I look at this budget item 32.20.43, the internationalisation grant for joint ventures between companies, where these levels have collapsed, the money has been halved. For example, this year we have estimated companies participating in cleantech projects: 135 now, next year's estimate of 20, and the corresponding trend goes through this line. Should we not now try to find such solutions that enable companies to network and provide comprehensive solutions for export markets, especially in developing countries? In terms of cleantech, clean water, clean air, energy efficiency, there will be markets for these companies as long as they are growing strong enough and find each other through networking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u245	Madam President! It is quite right that the government and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy focus strongly on supporting the restructuring of the industrial structure and on finding new sources of growth. In recent decades, our industrial structure has changed significantly. We no longer have a utility industry, but our industry is largely based on industrial investment in other countries. In many ways, the Government invests around EUR 45 million in cleantech and bioeconomy solutions and the commercialisation of their innovations. I would like to ask the Minister for Industry how food is included in these, because clean food is produced in Finland and we have good export opportunities for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u246	Madam President! Of course, when we talk about the budget and the aim is to mobilise investment, I would like to point out at this stage how legislation prevents investment in the market. I am setting up a new restaurant, and the purpose was to produce all the electricity needed during the summer with solar panels. We had agreed with the next hall that we would rent about 3,000 square meters of roof space for solar panels. This would have been a clearly profitable investment for us according to all calculations, until then, when it was taken forward, it became clear that, since those solar panels are located on another site, it will be subject to both electricity tax and transfer tax and VAT, which makes this investment completely unprofitable. I would ask the Ministry of the Economy to take these restrictions into account and to enable solar panels, for example, to be installed in their own production elsewhere than on their own property. Given the enormous potential of the market, this could unlock it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u247	Mr President! Representative Vartia said something: we have a certain problem with not investing in Finland. And the root of the problem actually sums up one word: customer orientation. I got this example from one Canadian-Australian investor who said that when he invests in Finland, officials are asking for tickets and notes, and then they are asking for tickets and notes, and then they are still complaining about each other's decisions, while in Sweden, for example, a public official is asking me what I can do to get you to work in this area. Minister, how could you contribute to raising the bar of customer orientation in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u248	Mr President! When we talk about this renewable energy, I am very confused that I have listened to Mrs Aalto's speech today and Mrs Aalto's speech the other day. On the other day, he was concerned about the government's objectives of increasing the cost of cutting by 15 million cubic metres; today, he called for an increase in the rate paid by taxpayers for the exploitation of renewable chips. In practice, this is what 15 million fellings are needed to achieve, even in those goals where the government has set a 50% renewable share. I believe that the Greens have spoken of a larger number and are going to do so without additional nuclear power. Tell me how this is possible — I don't understand. On this point, I would ask Mr Rehn when, indeed, this movement of wood is a bottleneck as much as the subsidies. We go to Äänekoski with 4 million cubes — good. We already have 5 million for the 2020 application and 9 million cubic metres for doubling by 2030. Are you prepared to support the so-called advance tax system in the field of forest taxation, which would be the effective way to mobilise wood quickly? Soft means are not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u249	Madam President! Mr Mykkänen is a humorous man, and it feels like he hears what he wants to hear and does not hear what is said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u252	There are so many questions here that it is probably appropriate for Minister Rehn to spend three minutes answering.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, there were many important questions here. Some of these are the responsibility of Minister Lindström, since the question of employment funds and start-up money falls within the responsibility of Minister Lindström, among others. Representative Hakkarainen and earlier and later representative Aalto and indeed representative Vartia referred to renewable energy and bioeconomy. On this issue of the feed-in tariff, which, in my opinion, aims at the right things, I would say that renewable energy can also be promoted in a decentralised form: in this regard, we will be assessing the entire renewable energy support system as part of the work that we will be doing in the preparation of the national energy and climate strategy in the near future. In other words, this will start in November, next month, and is in fact already going on within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and during next winter and spring there will be a wide-ranging debate in Finnish society, in this house, and it will be brought to the attention of Parliament in the autumn of next year, through the Government's report. Its role and context will also address the issue of the renewable energy support system as a whole, including the promotion of decentralised production. Mr Vartia and Mr Wallinheimo, with the support of Mr Mykkänen, drew attention to solar panels, renewable energy and Mrs Wallinheimo's customer orientation, which he wishes to emphasise, I think that is right. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention and encourage you to read the competition programme, which is part of the government's leading projects, which aims to promote, precisely through customer orientation, the development of the market and the strengthening of competition, and also to ensure that unnecessary authorisation procedures, unnecessary bureaucracy, to which Mr Vartia referred, can be reduced and thus remove unnecessary barriers to investment, which we still have far too many in Finland at the moment. This is one of the absolute priorities of the government, and we will be working hard on it all on our own property. Representative Rinne referred to the internationalisation of companies. I fully share this objective, including networking. In this respect, it is very important that we have the capacity to cooperate. We will start next year's budget with EUR 8.5 million of key project funding for Team Finland growth programmes to support the bioeconomy
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u254	Mr President! We are working to improve Finland's competitiveness and increase exports. Wood is a very important raw material for us and it is transported from a very long distance. It is a pleasure to note that the Government Programme is now investing in the rehabilitation of roads. The budget provides €5 million for transport aid. This is the same amount as this year. However, Finnish companies are unfortunately on their way back to a competitor country compared to Sweden. Minister, is there a plan for how this competition gap will be smoothed out in the neighbouring countries in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u255	Mr President! Indeed, Finland urgently needs these new innovations and competitiveness. The film and television sectors have proposed an incentive system for Finland, which I would be in favour of. This would increase Finland’s competitiveness as a country of production of international films and television programmes and promote regional and land brand marketing also from the perspective of tourism. This av-incentive system is based on several ministries. I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister for Industry has addressed this issue and the proposal. Are there plans to make use of this competitive model, which would actually discharge income flows here to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u256	Mr President! I have not yet received an answer to this Arctic expertise, and I would like to ask again about it, because a year ago there was a great deal of talk about it. I want to hear how this new government will react to that Arctic region. It has been believed that this would enable growth and employment to be achieved. But, of course, even in this situation of foreign policy and world politics, Russia is one of the big players in the Arctic. In fact, I would like to hear a little of the Minister's comments on whether you have cooperated with Russia, whether there is a discussion connection, which is currently Finland's contribution to the Arctic region. I would like to reiterate my question about how to invest in this competence and competence development in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u257	Mr President! Tourism is a growth sector in Finland and internationally, as in the whole service sector. However, there are too few issues in the Government Programme that would develop services, especially tourism in Finland and its internationalisation. We have also addressed this issue in the Nordic Council, where the Social Democrats have taken a joint initiative throughout the Nordic countries to create a common Nordic concept of tourism. But I ask you, Minister: What are you going to do about the fact that Finnish tourism really takes advantage of its internationalisation, the potential we have? From Asia, for example, we get dozens of planes to Helsinki, but only about one in six passengers stays here. What can we do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u258	Mr President! Finland will only rise by work and would need those jobs. But I would like to ask whether it is possible that everything has already been done or whether it is necessary to increase cooperation between entrepreneurs and universities, universities. It would seem that they would find a vision of what possible new jobs and such essential works suitable for Finland would be. It seems that there would be that wisdom, and in one way or another they could be of assistance to the export industry, because this export is extremely difficult for SMEs in particular. If I heard correctly, then Finnvera has been given 300 million loan guarantees and is intended for SMEs. But as we know, Finnvera has this concept of small and medium-sized enterprises, not necessarily companies of less than 50 people, but even 500 people. But are these now future lending powers just intended for such so-called SMEs?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u259	Madam Speaker! As has been said, the bioeconomy is affected by a very significant, even massive, waiting value for new jobs. That is why, of course, we must ensure that this society does not concentrate too much. This comment is mainly because I did not really like the fact that there is an annex to the draft government budget at some point and at some point, which says as a heading that urbanisation increases the chances of economic growth. Not all innovations are born in cities. But to the minister, the question is: You rightly spoke of these new financial instruments and opportunities. Of course, growth policy is also part of the right timing. We should be able to identify, in a timely manner, those companies that are ready for international markets and then want to grow. The question about this is:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u260	Madam Speaker! As has already been said, there will be strong support for the bioeconomy, which is a good thing. But it must be remembered that we have many other areas, and it has been learned from the past that it is not worth building an economy on one stone foot. That's what Nokia already taught us. It has been said here that service exports are a big opportunity; tourism is a big opportunity; the pharmaceutical industry is a big opportunity; applications related to Arctic expertise are a big opportunity for us. Is it reasonable, then, to drastically reduce RD funding from Tekes, VTT and universities and then give it back to certain key projects selected by the government, mainly the bioeconomy? Is it worth building on one stone foot?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u261	Mr President! I have to start by saying to Mr Sarkkinen that under no circumstances is it built on one stone leg, that the government has practically 26 different measures in all these key projects. We are actually dealing with the area of the TEM, and the bioeconomy is now what is being discussed, this most important thing. But now that Mr Myller is here, I would say that anything can be done about wood today: medicines, plastics and medical supplies. The plaster can be replaced by wood, and you should get to know about this A new tree project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u262	Mr President! My question, which I did not receive an answer from the Minister, was precisely how we are going to increase the level and value of wood processing. It is important that we produce biofuels and bioenergy from the secondary streams of the wood processing industry, but there is an opportunity to significantly increase the level of processing, to obtain more euros per kilo of wood. And that is exactly what I wanted to ask: when, in practice, there are EUR 200 million for that top project for three years and I told him that I had read that Mr Stubb had said that it would bring about either two small biorefineries or one larger biorefinery, then what else would be done?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u263	Madam President! This was a discussion of solar panels. We have in fact included in the government programme that solar panels and this type of system will move towards lighter regulation, including the notification procedure and so on, and I think it is very welcome. We have a huge amount — in fact, it is estimated that up to 3 billion — of various investments are stuck because of authorisation and complaints, and we have also been included in the government programme that we are going to limit complaints, impose binding time limits on Yva and various permits, and also limit the permission to appeal. I would like to ask Minister Rehn, even though this is in part certain to go to Mr Tiilikainen's area: how are they going to proceed? I believe that you too, as Minister for Industry, will be interested in this, because a significant number of projects would be set in motion in your sector if we could now quickly reach decisions in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u264	Madam President! It is wonderful to note that many people support domestic energy in the present parliamentary group. With regard to the previous period, there were a number of opposing persons, those who opposed a number of domestic forms of energy — excluding, in fact, rubbing electricity and muscle energy, which were accepted by the Greens. I would also like to ask what Mr Wallinheim referred to as these services. More and more municipalities will also have to take these business services for the Ely Centres and for the TE Offices. What is the condition of the Enterprise Finland projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u265	Then there are the representatives of Karimäki and Paloniemi, then Minister Rehn, and then we go to Minister Lindstöm's business.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u266	Madam President! Mr Pirttilahti's speech must now be wondered. Last season, greens have driven very strongly bioenergy, wood energy, wind power, solar energy. What we've been driving all along is a net measure. After all, many people today want to install solar panels or small wind turbines, but sometimes this locally produced electricity is more than the resident himself consumes — that is, the house is self-sufficient — and he would like to feed electricity into the grid. Of course, the electricity company accepts the electricity supplied to the network but does not replace it for the consumer. On the other hand, since we already have telereadable electricity meters that measure electricity consumption and supply in real time, it would be very important to have a net metering principle in the electricity market law: the electricity market price would replace the electricity supplied to the resident. I would like to ask: what is the government doing to promote this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u267	Madam President! The role of universities and universities has been mentioned here, and that is very good, because in the creation of new products and services, universities play an extremely important role, including in the bioeconomy, which has raised a lot of good speeches. However, the problem at the moment is that if, for example, universities of applied sciences are to be used more effectively in this innovation chain – international studies have also been carried out, among other things – then we really need long-term RD funding to ensure that. For example: Jyväskylä University of Applied Sciences has done a very good job in the bioeconomy at the Natural Resources Institute, and that work is getting stronger and stronger, but the tempoability of RD funding is the problem when it comes to getting good projects started and creating these new products and services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u268	Minister Rehn, five more minutes from this podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u269	Madam President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these questions and comments. I will start with the speeches made by the most persistent representatives who asked the same question at least for the second or third time. These include Mr Salonen, who commented and asked about Arctic cooperation, which is a very important issue. There were also other comments on this theme. We are launching an update of the Arctic Strategy this month, in October 2015, and I can give you an example from two sectors. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has an Arctic centre of expertise in the preparation process, which would network the expertise of Finnish companies in this field, help them to market them and thus contribute to the success of Finns in the Arctic region. A EUR 100 million research programme has been launched under Tekes in the field of TEM. Arctic seas, which aim to promote innovations in this sector, product and service ideas for companies. In this context, there were also questions about Russia, and it is clear, of course, that there is Russia involved in Arctic cooperation, that there is the United States associated with it and that it is very high on the international policy agenda at the moment. After all, Finland will have a presidency in this field next year. In fact, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I hope that you will be able to have a debate with Foreign Minister Soin, particularly in relation to Russia, because he is responsible for these issues in accordance with the division of government's duties. Then there was representative Myller, who commented and asked about the use of wood, the exploitation of wood. In this respect, we actually have different articles in the same section and different parts in the same key project. In other words, when it is established that one more medium-sized biorefinery or other bio-energy plant can be launched with the additional support of EUR 100 million of renewable energy, it comes from a different item than research, development and innovation funding, which is specified separately in the key project, and aims to increase the value added of wood and, of course, increase the added value of wood. I personally strongly believe that we should improve our ability to exploit wood and forest by gaining a higher added value, but it is a difficult species, and we have enough growth in forests for both higher-processing products and renewable energy production. In other words, we are currently beating up perhaps 60 to 70 % of the annual growth rate, and from that point of view we are also in a position to produce renewable energy as well as to use wood in a diverse way. Mr Skinner then asked and commented on tourism. I refer to Visit Finland, which is a very important part of Team Finland's work. In this respect, of course, it is very important that we are able to maintain and strengthen the position of Helsinki Airport as an important crossroads station in Asia, and it is of course related to the development of Finavia, Helsinki Airport and Finnair. Representative Mäkipää asked Finnvera about an additional loan mandate of EUR 300 million. You're absolutely right. It is specifically aimed at SMEs, or, as you said, SMEs, that is to say, it has a strong emphasis on SMEs in industry, but of course it can also be granted to service companies, especially because the borders are increasingly vague today. Mr Parviainen then asked and commented on the transport aid. It is very important that we are able to improve the conditions for business in other parts of Finland than in southern Finland. In this regard, I would simply say that our budgetary constraints are such that it would not be very realistic to promise any significant increase in transport aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u270	Then we move on to Minister Lindström's presentation, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u271	Madam President! The Minister of Economic Affairs described quite well the economic environment in which we wrestled with our goals and problems, so I will not repeat them. On the other hand, I will go a little further into the modest employment developments brought about by weak economic development. In recent years, a weak year of economic growth has always followed a weak year of economic growth. Unfortunately, when this formula has been repeated many times, we are in a situation where our employment development is weak. The Ministry of Finance estimates that this year's unemployment rate would rise to as much as 9.6%, with an increase of 1.1 percentage points compared to last year. The forecast for 2016 is 9.4 per cent, so no rapid cure is expected for our poor employment situation. A few words about our current situation. At the end of last month, employment and economic development offices had nearly 350,000 unemployed job seekers. The number is huge, it is over 27,000 more than one year ago. We have spoken on several occasions in Parliament about young people, the long-term unemployed, unemployed job seekers over 50 years of age. The current situation is that there are 48300 unemployed young people under the age of 25 who are 4500 more than one year ago. The number of unemployed continuously over a year is 112,000, which is 21,000 more than one year ago, and the number of unemployed persons over 50, 125600, which is 8,700 more than one year ago. All these figures are far too large and, as I have said on several occasions, I am prepared to do everything possible to facilitate this situation. By combining this management of employment with the fact that we must at the same time put our country's public finances on a sustainable footing, we will be able to solve a truly challenging problem. In accordance with the Government Programme, we are preparing a change of focus from passive measures to more active measures. Unemployment benefit must be used more actively, for example, as a start-up grant or as a pay subsidy. In particular, I am responsible for employment and entrepreneurship policy, the business environment, market regulation and working life, and integration in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment. An appropriation of EUR 558 million is proposed for public employment and business services. As part of the Government’s key projects, EUR 5 million has been added to the article for 2016 to increase the supply of private employment services. An additional EUR 20 million is proposed for the digitalisation of employment and economic development services, which is distributed evenly between 16 and 17. During the parliamentary term, the work life 2020 project will continue with an annual investment of less than EUR 1 million. Some of the fully necessary adjustment measures of central government are also targeted at the items against which they are addressed. As part of the savings, the grant mandate for business development projects will cease in the 2016 budget. To this end, a few words on the integration package that I am responsible for. The situation with regard to the growth of asylum seekers is well known to us all. We are facing a completely new situation and comprehensive and controlled management of the situation is of paramount importance. We need to ensure that people who have received a residence permit have a place in the municipality smoothly and quickly. The aim is to move to municipalities in a controlled way, not out of control. For the integration allowance to be paid to municipalities, we will propose a budget of just over EUR 141 million next year, with an increase of just under EUR 47 million compared to the actual budget for the current year. Mr President! Here are some of the key elements of the budget that I am responsible for. I look forward to an interesting debate and some pertinent questions, and then you will receive proper answers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u272	I would ask those who wish to take part in the debate to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u273	Mr President! I know that it is not easy to be a Minister for Labour at a time like this, and certainly not in a government which drastically cuts the budget for employment policy. In that sense, it is gratifying that the Minister is thinking about how unemployment security could be used more actively, because then we will be able to transfer this passive pot of almost 6 billion to the active side, which currently accounts for about 10%. But what amazes me when you read this budget in more detail is the choices you have made with regard to these available funds. If you look at government support employment, municipal support employment, employment in enterprises and start-up money: We all know that employment and start-up money in the private sector are the most effective instruments. But when you look at this development, it seems that it is in the start-up money that volumes are falling strongly, and in the aid money specifically directed at the private side that volumes are falling sharply. We know what happened last year, what happened this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u274	Mr President! I tried to ask Mr Orvo this earlier, but I felt that he might have misunderstood this issue of integration. He spoke of these immediate reception centres and the positive attitude of the municipalities. But my concern is precisely that when a person gets a positive decision, how can we get the municipalities involved in finding these new homes elsewhere than here in Congestion Finland? The second question: How can we prevent the development of what can be seen, for example, in Sweden and already in Finland, that people do not want to stay in these municipalities but run down here and then become more isolated? How would we be able to support municipalities, municipalities and these communities in order to achieve genuine integration there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u275	Mr President! Thank you for the presentation to the Minister. A few questions. I was in that Advisory Board of the National Audit Office, and the annual report was reviewed there, where Mr Marko Männikkö, Director General, presented studies showing that the unemployment rate for immigrants is three times higher than for the whole population, and there was a debate about how it would be good to take more account of these employment needs as individuals. In fact, I think that we could also begin to discuss the fact that different groups of immigrants, people from different countries, work differently because they have different backgrounds and different learning backgrounds and other things. It is a little dangerous to always talk about immigrants, because we can never solve the problem if we are just talking about a certain mass. We have very different skills. What is planned for this? I thank you for the fact that the Court's emergency has been noted and for the extra money being put in it. I can talk about this later, but I thank the Minister — because it is a guarantee of our rule of law that we have sufficient resources in the court — that there will be additional money coming in.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u276	We'll get into the Justice Department's business next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u277	Mr President! Studies show that a young person who is inactive for more than three months has a high risk of exclusion. The Youth Guarantee was probably not a complete success, but it managed to keep the long-term unemployment of young people relatively well under control. Up to now, Finland has had the lowest long-term unemployment among young people in Europe, but now this situation is deteriorating rapidly. Even in its own assessments, the government has estimated that long-term unemployment among young people will increase and be prolonged. With regard to the good means of the Youth Guarantee, I would like to mention, for example, the Sanssi card, which is now running out or is being stopped, and I personally know many young people who were employed by the Sanssi card. Several employers have told me this autumn that just when they learned how to use the Sanssi card, it was stopped. Have you thought about the extension of the Sanssi card? The second question is: what will happen to the detective youth work which, during the last period, found at least 15,000 young people who were lost to whom they were then built?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u278	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Employment has been discussed here all week and investment and a lower threshold are needed. We all know that, in practice, new jobs are becoming more and more important for SMEs. The two main problems relate to financing and better reconciliation at local level. On the financial side, bank orientation is still a major problem, and we should be able to launch an even stronger and more thorough business tax reform with the TEM initiative or with the VM initiative, which would in practice take the model of Finland's business tax reform in the '90s or the Estonian-type business tax model, the tax models associated with investment reserves. I hope that the ministers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs will be active in this, although tax policy itself does not belong directly to you. But this is one of the most important. The other side, local reconciliation and lower threshold hire people. In Germany, it has been possible to integrate a huge number of people who have emigrated into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u279	Mr President! I am sure that Mr Rehn and Mr Rehn will share some of my reflection. The brickyard, but it's also a serious part of the work. There is talk of large sums of money, as was said in energy: 100 million to support renewables and so on. By the way, because of the comparison, Outokumpu also needs 250 million to invest them in Fennovoima in a completely market-based way. But large sums of money have also been used to discussing when there is talk of the abolition of paper producers and large-scale redundancies in the IT sector, in which case support is needed. Now that the country faith of a Finnish farmer is being tested in such a way that 70 per cent of dairy farmers' gross income threatens to lose an eastern neighbour due to Ukraine-complaints as a result of an entirely correct policy of sanctions in themselves, so if farmers do not get help in this situation, viable farms are threatened to go downhill, and jobs in rural areas will be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u280	Mr President! The trend in the world and in Finland is that jobs will disappear from low-skilled occupations and new jobs will be created mainly in high-skilled sectors. The Government Programme and this budget reduce education and the number of master's degrees by 20%, or that is the goal. Do you see a contradiction as the Minister of Labour, or is there any fear that in the future we will not necessarily have access to highly skilled jobs in the field of education and training, or that we will not have access to conversion and continuing training? Is there sufficient resources there for people who lose their jobs to get a new job? Is this the kind of encounter-problem how big and acute fear? Then I apologise for the fact that I had my notes mixed up here, and I accidentally asked Minister Rehn the question of pay subsidies, which was intended for Minister Lindström, but I am sure you will remember that. And you then talked about this, that it is intended that this labour market support could be used more actively. Does it also apply to start-ups and start-ups? The sufficiency of start-up money is now one fear for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u281	Värderade fru talman! Much has been said today about competitiveness. If we are to have greater competitiveness, it is essential that we make the whole of our labour market potential available. This means that equality issues are important. Now, in this so-called competitiveness package, there was a hand-out for employers of mothers in the form of a one-off payment, which is a good thing and a good first step, but it does not change the structures. In order to change structures, parental leave should be reformed so that these periods are distributed more equitably between fathers and mothers. This would promote the position of women in the labour market and also the position of employers in women-dominated sectors. Do the ministries have plans to do something about parental leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u282	Madam President! The Minister began his speech by talking about these gloomy, truly worrying unemployment readings. We have been talking here for a long time about how to create new jobs. Indeed, the previous minister was already in charge. For example, today we have called for the billion-dollar growth fund, which the honourable centre thought was the solution for the last period. Of course, I would have liked to have found a solution in this book. But as far as employment is concerned, we need both jobs and employment measures. The big concern is now, Mr Lindström, that the fact is that, in this situation, you are cutting employment appropriations. We have an amending budget which proposes more for this year, but not enough. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. But now this level of next year: Minister Lindström, when you were chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group, there was an increase in your alternative budget plus 75 million presented, and now it has become a minus sign, minus 50 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u283	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Employment, Mr Lindström, how about, first and foremost, for small businesses, the idea that, if I hired one person as a company, I would be able to get the side costs off him for a year? This would very much help small businesses in particular to grow and make a significant contribution to the employment situation. The second point is that during the last parliamentary term there were good buffers, EUR 300 buffers, specifically for labour market support and housing support, but, above all, there is still this strong incentive trap with income support. Would it be possible that this EUR 300 buffer could also be allocated there to provide income support, so that more and more people could take up even the small part of the work, thus waiting for basic income?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u284	And also representatives of Savio and Paloniemi, and then Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u285	Thank you, Mr President. The Government has brought many, many good proposals to Parliament, and they will certainly help to develop Finnish business and labour markets. But I myself would like even a little more reform, and this is where Mr Häkkänen has just highlighted the Estonian business tax model, among other things. In this model, companies' accounting results are not yet taxed, but only on distributable profits. In my opinion, this has, at least in Estonia, been a very good source of more investment and also more jobs. And I would like to ask the ministers present today whether there has been any discussion in the government about the use of this model, especially now that we have a strong experimental culture under the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u286	Madam President! The Youth Guarantee was by no means as successful as many mouths have been declared in this Chamber. The National Economic Research Centre (ERC) carried out a study on the youth guarantee and the social guarantee and concluded that the impact on employment was extremely low. This is a fact now and not just a misty. And on top of that, who did it help a little? Those who already had training helped a little, but the young people we have so much to worry about here are, of course, the young people who have no education at all. Neither the social guarantee nor the Youth Guarantee helped at all these young people without education. This, of course, still means that we need tailor-made models for young people with life-management problems, mental health problems and so on. They need to be rehabilitated, directed to those studies and workshops — only after the basics are in order. Vamos service package The Helsinki Diakonissa Institute has one good model that should be preferred, and it should be replicated
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u287	Now Minister Lindström, three minutes, and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u288	Madam President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. Representative Filatov: Constructive feedback but also criticism at the same time. Of course, it is difficult to act in such an environment where we are now, i.e. when the money is reduced. This is where Mr Viitanen said that you should recognise that you have cut the employment budget: of course, I said it out loud right there, that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u291	Mr President! We have been talking here today about the Ringe model in relation to this active use of unemployment allowance. I am making the point of the motion in such a way that, when this item, 32.30.51, is EUR 240 million, which is now being paid in the form of pay subsidies in different areas, the proposal basically means that the basic part of the unemployment benefit from the automatic stabiliser would be used directly to make up for this money. It does not go one way or the other because EUR 705 is the sum of unemployment allowances per month and the maximum wage subsidy is EUR 2000 for the hard-to-work population, but there would be a significant amount of savings which could then provide additional funding for that aspect of employment support in such a way that more people can be employed. This would get thousands of people, now people in need of pay support, to work quickly. Why don't you use this idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u292	Mr President! In my opinion, this move of passive money into active money is, in a certain way, a magic trick that works because now we are budgeting for two points. One is outside the spending limits, and the other is inside the spending limits and there is a roof and the money is running out. But with regard to this youth guarantee and to keeping these people in the most difficult position and, in a way, those people who are not in good shape, the priority is: this is exactly what needs to be done, because only then will employment be achieved. But the problem is that one of the best tools is detective youth work and now a powerful cutter strikes on that side too. It belongs to the Ministry of Education and in that sense is not the subject of this debate, but I think it is a big question mark. But if we think about the employment of a young person, the main problem is getting the first job after training: when you have no work experience, you cannot get to work. That is the youth guarantee on the part of the Ministry of Labour, which has used the pay subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u293	Madam President! As Minister Lindström said in his own speech, a challenging environment and a weak employment situation are typical of this situation and he genuinely acknowledged what is going on in this situation of employment money. Here are many of these kinds of support opportunities for employment, but from experience I can say that pay support is a functioning system. It can genuinely employ people or people when there is work available. Of course, we only have a problem in Finland because we do not have enough jobs at the moment. I do not think that we should pursue such employment measures, which, of course, do not genuinely get people into sensible jobs, but that this wage subsidy should be able to find those places. But we now need entrepreneurs in Finland on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u294	Madam President! Indeed, the Youth Guarantee is not going down, it is going to continue, partly through budget funding, but also through growth efforts, and 30 million dollars a year will be spent on it. The Youth Guarantee has done a lot of good, but it has not made youth unemployment any easier, and it is good that reform is also being carried out. One essential point has been that there has been no such clear responsible person in the Youth Guarantee, and that is what is coming. The Youth Guarantee will be developed into a model in which the responsibility of the young person rests with one body, and the cab services will be distributed nationwide. It is good that reforms will also be made if we do not achieve the result for which a good youth guarantee was originally made, and I will encourage this type of reform. But it is true that the budget is not as much as it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u295	Madam President! This is where the Minister said earlier that we are developing this too, and I am glad to say that development projects are important to you, but in the youth guarantee we cannot afford such development projects now. The Youth Guarantee was launched during the last term of the government, and it is clear that it is not perfect at first but must be continued. Now we should have kept that work going. We cut from 60 million to 56 — I do not know what Mr Heinonen is talking about, but this cut is significant. However, over 70 per cent received either education or employment under the Youth Guarantee. This is a significant number, this is a big number. It is incomprehensible that when Europe starts to boast and see the youth guarantee as a positive thing, then we in Finland will take the rug out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u296	Mr President! I, in my own speech, admitted that the budget is being cut, and I said that this appropriation is probably not the right one, but I am surprised that, for example, representatives from the left are not in favour of improving the youth guarantee. I think it's amazing. In my own speech, I have just pointed out that the youth guarantee now has a clear responsibility, personal guidance, and then the representatives from the left say that nothing should be changed. After all, it is absurd if we do not change if we do not achieve good results. We need to make the Youth Guarantee better than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u297	Mr President! Mr Heinonen and Mr Paloniemi spoke from a different world. So it seems that the Centre is of the opinion that the youth guarantee as a whole has failed. The Coalition Party admits that the Youth Guarantee has done something good. Perhaps we still want to hear the Finnish Minister tell us how the government now thinks about this youth guarantee and what this cut is and how it will be possible to help young people in the future. For the first time, the Youth Guarantee understood that young people must be caught immediately, immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u300	Madam President! That's what I'm trying to say right now. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u303	Mr President! At least in North Savo and North Karelia this has worked. There a very large proportion, I do not remember now whether it was 75 per cent or even more, of those under the age of 25 were either able to get into education or work, a traineeship within three months. That is why it is intended that young people do not become unemployed for a long time, but can be employed immediately or be given a place of education, and this will then prevent exclusion. You are talking about helping those young people who have become marginalised to move forward. This is definitely something that needs to be done. Both are needed, and the advantages of these must be put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u305	Mr President! In terms of youth unemployment and in terms of all forms of unemployment, it is vital that permanent jobs are created. Under no circumstances will the Youth Guarantee be abandoned. The government will certainly take care of each young person so that the young person is immediately taken into the box if he is empty after school or unemployed for a certain period of time. This principle will continue to be upheld. But when they advertised the Sanssi card, the fact is that the Sanssi card was not, however, such a tool to cut youth unemployment because it was an extremely bureaucratic system. In some cases it worked, but in some cases it did not work — the problem is precisely this bureaucracy. After all, during Question Time the Social Democrats presented this bill to the unemployed, but we get these Sanssi cards and the unemployed person's notes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u306	Mr President! I think half of this byrok-ratia is true. Those who know how to use these systems say that this is not a question of bureaucracy. Those who have never used it and who have not come to know it say it is difficult. But one solution would be that this The model presented by the slope would be reasonably automatic. It would be obtained by an entrepreneur who would convince him that he has not laid off the people, that he has not laid off the people and that he has no obligation to take back, as stipulated by the Employment Contracts Act. Then random checks would be carried out to check whether this system works, and if that person had betrayed the confidence that this banknote system is, then there would be a proper sanction. But those entrepreneurs who would genuinely convince and who would not replace the redundant workforce with these subsidies would then have it without red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u307	Madam President! Mr. Minister of Labour! In fact, I could start by trying to compromise Mr Filatov. A total of 5.5 million will be cut from detective youth work, even though the Government Programme boasts a great deal of praise. This is a contradiction. Representative Turunen said that young people are being held hostage, but 55 million will be cut from the youth guarantee. This is a lot of money. My question concerns another matter. The population of Finland is ageing very quickly. According to Statistics Finland, the working-age population will decline for the next 15 years, i.e. until 20-30. And although there is unemployment in Finland, there are also many job vacancies. We have sectors that are already experiencing a shortage of labour. The social and health sector is a good example of this. We know that increasing work-related immigration is not a favourite issue for Finns, but how, Minister of Labour, you intend to continue to promote the maintenance of the supply of work in Finland. In addition, there are many areas in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u308	Mr President! I would like to return to this important issue of integration and the employment of asylum seekers after that, if they can obtain asylum here. As the Minister said, we are facing a completely new situation. That would mean that we also need new approaches to this integration. I would like to ask what new measures are planned. How will integration be reformed and developed? Is there any concrete plan to respond to this new situation and challenge, that this knowledge potential, which is there, can be exploited as well as possible? In Finland, a large number of asylum seekers are also young people, and this youth unemployment in particular has also been on the agenda in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u309	Mr President! I would continue on this same subject, integration. I just described the problem that we all well know about Finland and Sweden, that even if these new Finns were to be placed in less populated Finland, they would easily flow here to growth centres, and then there will be problems here. What measures could we really take to help those people find their work or entrepreneurship elsewhere? Can it be thought that, for example, the small town allowance could be on top of this social security system, not only for the New Finns, but also for the Finns in Finland, so that this social security and assistance can remain the same? And could you think that those subsidies to a company would be higher outside the growth centres, that this entrepreneurship would thus be easier? I think this was a question for both ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u310	Mr Ojala-Niemelä. Then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u311	Madam President! I would also like to raise this youth guarantee: EUR 60 million has been invested in it in the last parliamentary term every year, and now that this sum falls to a fraction of it, that is to say, 95% of the youth guarantee is being cut from the level of the current year, it is quite clear that although it is said here that the youth guarantee will remain, if the money is taken away, this volume cannot be the same measure. So more and more young people fall outside of society. In this worsening situation of unemployment, the government cuts these money for active employment drastically when the comb should be turned in exactly the opposite direction, i.e. the start-up money is exhausted. Mr Pakkanen made a good speech here about the pay subsidy. It has proved effective. In Lapland, for example, all young people who were awarded pay subsidies to companies last year have remained there. Then this additional allocation from the additional budget
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u312	Then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u313	Madam President! Thank you for a good debate and a constructive one. Except that we have huge unemployment, the big problem is that the long-term unemployment is getting longer and longer: once a person is unemployed, he is not going to get out of it. There has now been much talk of this youth guarantee. Its idea is, of course, to catch the young person as quickly as possible before he gets into this cycle of unemployment and so on, and of course it always sounds like an explanation, but this is how it is that money has been cut off from the youth guarantee, but it is certainly not going to be stopped. The question was: How do the Finns feel about this youth guarantee? In the last parliamentary term, we thought this was a good thing and encouraged us to go in this direction. Now we have experience of what is working in it and what is perhaps less working, and that now involves this development. The purpose of this Youth Guarantee is therefore to develop a model, which Mr Heinonen referred to here, in which responsibility for young people rests with one body. Then there will be a guarantee of a place of education for the end of comprehensive school, a strengthening of social and health services, a strengthening of mental health services, a guarantee of rehabilitation places, and we will particularly support those young people who are most in need of support, by continuing to finance youth workshops and outreach youth work, and I believe that this is a very important issue. As part of the reform of vocational education and training, we will increase workplace learning and create a new model of training agreements, especially for young people. This is another new idea and line. After all, there was a lot of fighting over the last period, even for an apprenticeship or a training contract. I think it is a good thing that this education agreement is now moving forward, and I hope that it will also bring concrete results. It is quite true what Mrs Filatov said: the first job is extremely important to a young person, whatever it is, and the fact that she is able to try it, because quite a few young people today are sadly lost in the way they are working, just about these basics. It is a huge loss to this society if these young people never learn how to work, what are working hours and so forth, and so forth. Mr Yanar would draw such a question battery that I do not have time for this. But I take these very seriously: population ageing, labour shortages, increased labour supply and structural change — all big, big things. How can these immigrants be integrated? I will return to the fact that employment is the best integrationist. Whether it is an immigrant or a member of the common population, the same means pass on to these people. Of course, for these immigrants it is much more challenging, perhaps, than for Finnish residents, but employment
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u314	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister when you want to reform apprenticeships: when you have this master and race system — which is indeed in great oxygen — you are kind of gentle, could it be that when an employer allows you to learn at work in the SME sector, society, in a way, in order to verify it at work, would be involved so that it would be a master in the society, in terms of learning at work or preparing for a skills test, for example 30% of the salary of a master in the SME sector? That is to make it possible for an apprentice to learn at the workplace so that it does not end now that this educational contract — as it could, in a way, open up — only the use of this kind of cheap labour for those auxiliary jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u315	Mr President! In his previous speech, Mr Salonen summed up the fineness of the youth guarantee. In my opinion, it was precisely that quick action and a very extensive joint observation, and that was how it began to work. It was good and I'm sure there's something to develop. Of course, the most important thing was money and resources. Personally, I would think that one of the most important things when it comes to development is to put young people at the heart of it themselves, so that they themselves are genuinely planning those services and perhaps partly giving each other that service. In my opinion, this was a very widespread criticism, or such an observation when looking at that youth guarantee. And then on integration: The Minister has spoken well about it, emphatically. We have had a very inflamed debate in Finnish society, and I am quite sure that it will for quite a long time leave big scars and it will also affect how people integrate into this society, in addition to its language and work. That is why politicians, we, also have a responsibility, and I hope that the Minister will also think about how integration will create that space for this meeting. A lot of it has now been created through voluntary work: when asylum seekers
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u316	Mr President! First of all, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour a constructive question like this: why have you been left with this kind of heritage, with 350,000 unemployed, has huge youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, unemployment among people over 50 years of age and also those young people who are not in any books? But then: This book also said that there is cooperation with employers in the field of employment services, which feels very good. But is that practically possible? And then it should also be noted that responsibility for long-term unemployment lies with the municipalities, which came into force at the beginning of this year. How have you seen whether the municipalities are still burdened with this long-term unemployment treatment? And so, as this multi-channel cooperation is being developed and then networked is being increased, we will know,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u317	Mr President! It is an honour for the Youth Guarantee, but as a matter of fact it is much smaller than the big question this year about which this will be remembered, that is, this wave of immigration. And I would argue that in ten years’ time, when we see whether this has been a blessing or a curse for the country, we can do a great deal about it. When you read international studies or even VATT’s research on integration published a year ago, there are two things above the others: fast Finnish, fast any kind of work with others, the native population. And as a concrete question to the Minister for Labour, who has already referred to this: are you prepared to do all you can to ensure that the teaching of Finnish does not get caught up in getting qualified teachers with money that does not exist, but that they usually get this kind of participatory work with Finnish speakers, where language skills are acquired? Secondly, are you prepared to forget the formal requirements in terms of strict working conditions, as long as there is work practice, voluntary work, work trials? Can't wait 18 months — as I was told about Espoo —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u318	Mr President! I would like to continue with the questions put by Mr Mykkänen, and perhaps I would also ask Mr Mykkänen some questions. It is often thought that language is, of course, absolutely central in order to get a job in Finland, and for immigrants there is often a barrier to waiting in line for these language courses. But there are also quite a few obstacles that are not related to the language. For example, when the situation of Somalis has been studied, it has actually been found that the majority of Finns are very well Finnish and yet employment is difficult, so it is often a matter of discrimination, prejudice, perhaps a different name. I know that the Minister is also very strongly pursuing the equality objectives that exist in the administrative sector. How does the government intend to promote less discrimination and such barriers to employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u319	Madam President! When a single person is employed by a single person, it is in the same proportion as if a hundred people were employed by a hundred people at one time: it means that the risk is considerable. Large companies think more about the cost of labour, small companies think about the risk of employment. That is why I would call for a hive separation between large and small companies and for the risk to be taken into account by considering the employment of small enterprises, for example, by facilitating redundancies, thereby unlocking the potential there. I would also like to give you a hint on this integration debate. In some municipalities, if not all, asylum seekers' overnight stay costs, I believe, EUR 40. What if this EUR 40 were paid to some private people or families? I believe that many would be prepared to accommodate an asylum seeker at this price in their home.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u320	Madam President! In a situation of worsening unemployment, the government is seriously cutting the budget for active employment and labour market support. There's no way out of this truth. Representatives of the government have stated that they are investing in private companies with wage subsidies for employment. How can this be done when the budget book is based on the fact that some 3,000 fewer people are employed in private companies with pay subsidies than this year? In the budget book, the government has also written that structural unemployment will decrease, but when you look at the figures you yourself estimate that youth unemployment will be prolonged and long-term unemployment will also increase. Minister for Labour, unless the government itself believes in these measures, where there are additional efforts. You are also prepared to weaken the rotation leave. Unemployment is rising, but the voluntary division of work is becoming more difficult. What is the basis of your choice of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u321	Once again, Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Myllykoski have spoken, and then we will proceed to the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u322	Mr President! Minister Lindström received that heavy inheritance, but also in the fact that, for some incomprehensible reason, the previous government — Ihalainen and Rinne — reserved only six months of funding for the management of employment for this year last autumn. I can't believe it. It's got biting and stuff to do. These reform measures, which Mr Lindström has devoted himself to, and which he has pointed out, have become extremely important, as he has already done, for example, on 26.8. At his press conference with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, he made a fine reference. These experiments are now needed, such as municipal trials. The municipal employment experiment will end at the end of this year. We should be able to continue with the organisations that have been created in many places. And then we need to promote digital services on this side too, to increase the potential of municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u323	Madam President! Representative The trout took the right angle on things. I would have asked the Minister when the opposition is being called out that there are no alternatives, and when these funds have already run out and we are unable to hire people through it: would it be possible for us to create a system to exempt employers who employ an unemployed or young person for one year with a reduction of 70% in the following year and 30% in the third year? This, which is missing from employees' pension contributions, would be covered by the basic earnings-related daily allowance or labour market support so that this pot would have a cost impact in the first year plus minus zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u324	Secretary Rehn, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u325	Thank you, Madam President. A couple of comments on the speeches that have been made, first of all on this model of the slope, and I think this refers to Model II of the slope. However, it is somewhat similar to the Rinte model I, which was from 83 C.E., when the long-term unemployed were employed with active employment measures in private companies with social support. It was quite an important move forward from the then SMP-confirmed red soil government and is probably related to this kind of low-paid support for paid work. I hope this time there will be better results in this area. Representative Adlercreutz asked about the government's budget line, and I would like to say that the starting point of the government is that the state cannot be a player in the economy, but a referee and, in a way, also a coach, whose job is to help ensure that the team players are able to perform excellent performances. This is precisely what these key projects contribute to. Those areas have been identified where the key projects will be directed. On the basis of economic and social research, we have assessed what will be key growth areas in the future, i.e. not just for a company but for a wider sector, for an industrial ecosystem such as bioeconomy, cleantech, health technology and digitalisation. I would like to conclude by saying to Mr Viitane, who has already left, that all this growth funding for key projects will amount to EUR 600 million with the current measures. Of course, more will come in due course. These are divided into three areas: firstly, growth programmes and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u326	Madam President! Thank you for a good debate. There was criticism, but it is only understandable in this respect. Congressman Mäkipää asked why such an inheritance. In my opinion, it is no longer a matter of buttering up at this stage. This has happened, and I see no reason why previous governments should be accused of having unemployment at this rate. It's no use to anyone. That's actually the answer to that. You also asked about the responsibility of municipalities for the long-term unemployed. The municipalities and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities have been very active. They have approached the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and have told us, especially these major municipalities, that they would handle this when you just give them the resources. Of course, this is not so simple. It is good that there is activity, and it is good that there is a desire to tackle this big problem, but I personally see that it is a joint task. For this we need municipalities, for this we need a state, for this we need businesses, for this we need everything. It's the only way to solve this problem. Many, quite a few — Mr Mykkänen, Mr Toivola, Mr Biaudet, Mr Sirén, Mr Heikkinen — asked about integration. A few words about what the government is now doing about it. Tomorrow will be the first meeting of a group of immigration ministers set up by the government. It has been established because the government takes this question seriously. We want to know what's going on in this sector. This is not just the Ministry of the Interior, this is not just a ministry thing, this is everybody's thing, and that is something to be taken seriously in that sense. On the one hand, we want to know where things are going and, on the other hand, what we are doing: we must constantly communicate to the public the right things that we are doing, because there is a lot of false information, which then causes uncertainty and even unpleasant mild phenomena, and of course it must be avoided. This is a huge task that lies ahead of us. As I said in my speech at the beginning, we are in a whole new situation in favour of integration. We have to think about new models, and that is why it is good that there have been questions and ideas here too. This group of ministers is one where we consider these, that what means can then be used to get these people into this society, because it all costs money, but it costs a lot less if we do this in a smart way. On the other hand, at its best, if these people are employed, it is in the interests of all of us. They start paying taxes and producing something for this society, and that is, of course, what we are looking for here. They asked about language training and working conditions and all this stuff. These are the kind of things that we all have to think about, what we really are trying to do with all this. This has challenged the government, this is challenging this Parliament. So there is no such stone of wisdom yet, but I believe that when you put the wise heads together, and thanks also to the ideas of the opposition, this is such a thing, which is the work of both the government and the opposition together, and in that sense I accept all these messages. At the end of the day, these messages which we were talking about, such as Mr Rehn on this model of the Ringe, and Mrs Myllykoski had a good idea — all of them I put up, and if I did not understand something, I will ask because I think we are in such a situation that that wisdom really does not just live in the government, although there are many wise people living there. In fact, I conclude that my esteemed representative, Mr Taimela, asked whether the government itself believed in its own actions. I have answered quite a few times out loud that if I did not believe in what we are doing, I would not sit a day in this government. I believe that even these painful measures must have a purpose, and the purpose is that more and more people get a job and that offering and receiving work would always be worthwhile. Uhh, I've been talking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u327	Good evening! Now we are back to our ministers, so now Minister Toivakka of the Foreign Ministry is presenting his own proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u328	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. We all know that the international environment is undergoing a major change and the security policy situation in Europe is tense. Finland will take this change into account in its foreign and security policy. We are trying to strengthen security in our neighbourhood, in Europe and globally through international cooperation. In addition to diplomacy, economic external relations, sustainable development and solutions to the global challenges of our time are needed to increase security. This work for a better Finland and a safer Finland and Europe and the world will certainly all be doing in this Chamber with our own contribution. A great responsibility for this work as a whole lies with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where, like many others, work is done with less resources than before, but with the same ambition as before. According to the Government Programme, EUR 201 million will be cut from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the amount for 2016 will be EUR 1.048 billion. The biggest savings of EUR 200 million in net impact will be in actual development cooperation, to which a total of EUR 498.1 million will be spent next year. After savings of EUR 0.8 million, EUR 226.6 million is proposed for the Ministry’s operating expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, a flexible and meaningful presence in the world is an invaluable source of information and influence that increases Finland's security and well-being. A comprehensive network of delegations, with real embassies, but more and more small embassies, is a key instrument for the implementation of our foreign policy. The aim is that this period will no longer see a reduction in the network of missions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u331	Ladies and gentlemen! I would now ask those Members who wish to ask questions or otherwise comment on the Foreign Ministry's proposal to reserve one-minute responses and comments by pressing the V button. First of all, I will give priority to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and this set of speakers will be opened by Antti Kaikkonen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u332	Thank you, Mr President. These cuts to development cooperation are undeniably painful. It doesn't help to say it's anything else. It can be said that many organizations find themselves in a rather disproportionate situation. It is in everyone's interest that these limited resources should be allocated in the most effective way possible. It is important that development aid is better centralised and coordinated so that it is effectively delivered. Little money cannot be spent at all on bureaucracy or inefficient activities. And it is good to remember that, even in spite of this backward step, that goal will be kept there at 0.7, and hopefully some beautiful day will come, even though it is now moving forward. Perhaps, Minister, you can tell us about this QC crisis management. There is a certain line in the government programme; on the other hand, the President of the Republic made a specific speech here recently, which was encouraging that it might not necessarily be pulled down that much. Can you open this up a little bit, that what is the government's policy and course of action on this matter? It is very important that we continue to be strongly involved in international crisis management, and hopefully this policy of the President of the Republic is also a government line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u333	Mr President! I give my greetings to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which ended a few hours ago, on a trip from Sweden. We were particularly familiar with Sweden's foreign, security and defence policy, and I can only say that there have been very major changes. All parties in the previous government are now in favour of NATO membership, and so is the majority of citizens currently in favour of NATO membership in Sweden because Russia's policy in Ukraine and elsewhere has been so worrying. What, then, has been the result? It means that: Sweden is increasingly approaching the United States, NATO and Finland militarily. The lesson we must now take into account is what we were told: Sweden may move on these issues quite unexpectedly and quite quickly. So we have to be prepared in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u334	Mr President! The situation in Finland's economy is very difficult, and I am sure we all understand that savings must be made and more tax revenues must also be received for the state. But I think that the government is making the wrong choice in terms of value by cutting 200 million from development cooperation and at the same time reducing the amount of car tax. In fact, the government is making a choice of values in which the car tax is reduced by the same amount as development cooperation, i.e. all the most vulnerable people are being cut. I cannot understand this choice of values, Mr Toivakka. Nor do I understand why these cuts are so strongly targeted at non-governmental organisations. I find that completely incomprehensible. It also makes the situation unreasonable for many NGOs when their funding is cut by up to 30-40% at six months' or a few months' notice. Why were you not prepared to sequence these cuts so that they would become effective in a smaller volume if you are not prepared to reverse these cuts altogether? This is something I do not understand and I hope you will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u335	Mr President! I agree with Mr Kaikkonen, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I would like to add that civilian crisis management is becoming particularly important in this world situation. Then I would also like to quote a little of this evaluation of Finland's development policy and cooperation — 2015 has done this, and this says: "Development policy programmes successfully and convincingly convey the values and general guiding principles of Finland's development policy, but give very little relevant guidance on performance-based management and implementation of development policy. There is a lack of clear prioritisation in the direction of development policy. Continual policies will add new but will not remove previous objectives. KEPOs and other more detailed sub-level political guidance documents are suffering from unclear, even missing targets. In addition to the budget of the U.S.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u336	Madam President! Since development policy is a whole, I would also like to emphasise Finnfund's role here, because Finnfund has now been put on the bench for no reason. For a long time, the OECD and our own Committee on Foreign Affairs have considered it important to find new innovative sources of funding for development cooperation, and the Government Programme promises to increase the importance of strengthening the business and tax bases of developing countries in Finland's development policy. Finnfund really needs capital to meet the investment demand in developing countries, and we are not alone in this emphasis at all. In recent years, very many European countries have significantly capitalised their own national development funding institutions, and Finland follows suit and improves resources in cooperation with the private sector. This is one element of our development cooperation. I agree with Mr Urplainen and everyone else who has already spoken in this Chamber. Far too severe cuts were made for the funding of organisations. I'd be too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u337	Mr President! The education of girls plays a key role in promoting well-being, combating poverty and curbing population growth. Education strengthens human rights and democracy, as well as women's ability to decide on their own lives and to participate in society's decision-making. The benefits of this are widely reflected in the communities and societies of developing countries. Strengthening the role of women and girls is therefore one of the central priorities of the government's development policy. That's the right line when you're looking for impact. The Finnish school system and teacher training are world-class. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how Finnish education skills are better used in development cooperation and what plans the government has for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u338	Mr President! First of all, a few good things. Of course, we must thank you for the fact that, during this parliamentary term, the network of foreign representatives will no longer be reduced, which is a great thing. But, of course, this issue of development policy is problematic, and what has also been raised here is this problem of periodicity, which I would also like to raise myself. Then there is an even more specific question about communication and global education, namely that there seems to be quite a lot of misinformation about development cooperation and development policy. Now, if I have understood correctly, it is intended that this autumn there will be no application round for support for communication and global education. The next round would not be until 16 C.E. and then supported by 17 C.E.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u339	Madam President! Congressman Paloniemi here has already brought up Finnfundin. Finnfund's capitalization, 130 million, has said a lot. 75% of funding will be spent in the poorest countries. Setting up business in the poorest countries is always a risk and requires a lot of research and a comprehensive understanding of the society there, and this understanding, and especially the valuable experience on the ground, lies with the development cooperation organisations on the ground. I would like to ask the Minister: how will it be ensured that companies and development organisations cooperate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u340	Madam President! First of all, Minister, half of the development funds are going away. 43% of organisations that work in the humanitarian field, among other things, go away. One fifth of civilian crisis management goes away. There was talk here that 43 organisations in Finland received global education and related money last year — no more next year. I am thinking of the fact that the total amount of these spending limits will be EUR 400 million per year when the emissions auction revenues are included in this way. Do you know what this means in practice, in Bangladesh, Nepal, what is practically not happening? Many of the projects planned will not be implemented. Many of the projects launched will be suspended. What does this do for the effectiveness of development cooperation? That's what I'm asking. And are you prepared to return to your Government Programme's guidelines that the reduction in emissions auction revenues will only take place in 2016?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u341	Mr President! This cutting back on development funds is indeed a sad move, and it also saddens the way in which it is implemented. As has clearly been demonstrated in this Chamber, in fact, some of this savings will be passed by means of the fact that if the organisations had been able to push their projects down in a controlled way, the money that has already been invested would have benefited better, and this is a very sad picture. But once this Finnfund has been strongly raised, I would like to ask when Finnfund has been surrounded by allegations or doubts or facts — I do not know what they are — that it uses tax havens and some of its activities go through it: can you, Minister, with the heart of my hand assure me that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u342	Madam President! I must agree with the criticism that the government is taking the money for development cooperation with a strong hand, especially with regard to organisations. The rapid timetable, the decisions that have been taken too quickly, are very damaging to a very large extent. It has just been mentioned that certain projects have to be interrupted, half-way, some money has already been invested in them, and Mrs Filatov has pointed out very well how it would have been better to complete them than to cut them off. But, on the other hand, I would like to ask a little more about the other angle: could it be that, now that there is the money left over, which is in a way related to Finnfund, we would create technological exports that improve the basic infrastructure of the developing country, climate-friendly energy, the export of wastewater, waste incineration methods so that Finnish companies can come to reference plants in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u343	Mr President! That example of Urpilainen’s value choices in the government was quite illustrative. The same 200 million for those who can afford to buy the best cars in Finland as is exported from development cooperation. But I myself am particularly concerned about what is happening in those regions of the poorest countries. We already see this huge problem at the moment: people are coming out of areas where there is no chance of living because of wars, there really is no chance of living. Climate change will further strengthen this tendence. How are we now prepared in Finland to provide developing countries with the climate finance they need to cope with these challenges? This will be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u344	Mr President! It is indeed, quite frankly, difficult even to describe the amount of shame the government's development policy is causing — what you can hear from the organisations, how, even if you cut more than EUR 2 million out of the Save the Children's Association's grant when they help children in Syria, in refugee camps close to Syria. And then the thing I know best: climate finance. The Western countries have committed themselves to gradually increasing climate finance to USD 100 billion by 2020. Finland has contributed to raising its share of climate funding to around EUR 100 million per year so far, and now a climate agreement should be agreed in Paris in December to which all countries expect more contributions so that developing countries can jump over coal-intensive technologies and so that everyone comes in line with climate agreement. Now, what is the Finnish Government doing? Cut off Unef's environmental funding. The UN environmental programme has always been an organisation with our strong support, and now we are pulling the money out of it. We are clearly withdrawing money from climate finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u345	Mr President! When I was young, one of the reasons I went into politics was that I wanted to save the world, and there is still a bit of the same problem. And then I thought it was really great that we had agreed together in the world that we would be responsible for 0.7% of our support for the poorest countries. And I find it really sad that adults cannot do what most young people think. 0.35%, that is the value we think the children and people of the poorest countries are worth. For example, these surgeries are very intense. You said, Minister, that less money will give you more, and I think that this also seems quite illogical: the same money will do much more in developing countries than it will save here. For example, from Plan’s money, it is thought that: I would still have had the question of these funds, which go into this crisis funding: are they all oda-able, for example, the African Fund,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u346	Mr President! It is true that many of us are involved in politics in order to make the world better and equally better from Finland. The fact that Finland is cutting 50% of development spending is shockingly high. When we take half off, it's half the girls who should go to school. It's half the wells that get clean water. And these are certainly value choices. Minister, you said this week that you do not believe that this in any way affects Finland's reputation. I do not know who you are talking to, but at the moment Finland does not have a good reputation in the world, either in Europe. I sincerely hope that there is concern here about the direction of the government parties about this episode as well. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something you can do about it. Do it, listen to me. But you have that leverage in your hand, unfortunately not ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u347	Mr President! This government will be in the history of the dismantling of Finnish development cooperation organisations. With many of these actors, the State has undertaken partnership projects in development cooperation. This idea has just been driven by the fact that it guarantees continuity, predictability and an adequate level of funding in order to achieve long-term and effective cooperation. Now this trust has been completely destroyed. What will you do, Madam Minister, to restore this confidence? You still have the opportunity to refocus, to make these choices, which many of the representatives of this House are now asking you with their heart. Finnish organizational work is world-class. They're coming for us from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u348	Madam President! Sometimes people hear claims that this refugee crisis is also due to Finland cutting development aid or cutting development aid. Well, of course it is not because, for example, our former foreign ministers have not signed a return agreement with Iraq and Somalia, such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm on the phone right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u351	Mr President! It is true that the cuts in development cooperation are tough and must be targeted at areas where they can now achieve as much good as possible. International crises have continued for an exceptionally long time, this time those that also affect us Finns. In Ukraine, Russia's illegal activities have continued, and in Syria, Daesh terrorised ordinary people. Both radiates in one way or another to Finland. We also have an increased threat of terrorism, but in Finland legislation is dragging on in this number of points. We have no criminalised membership of a terrorist organisation and, on the other hand, intelligence legislation is not at the level of other countries. In my opinion, decisive steps should now be taken in these areas. These are the issues that we raised during the last parliamentary term, and yet we are still in Europe's backwaters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u352	Mr President! There have been extremely good speeches here. In fact, Mr Urpilainen, in his own speech, quite a bit downloaded the whole picture of the situation where we are — really shocking major cuts. It was said here that Finland would, as it were, withdraw to build up forces because we are experiencing financial difficulties and then more can be done. The Minister did not exactly use these words, but I understood that from the speech. Perhaps it, I think, is that development cooperation is such an extremely subtle work that this kind of logic just doesn't work in that area either. And, as has been described here, with such large cuts, the destruction or the slowing down of development, the stopping, which results in quite concretely — it is a huge number of years before we reach it out and get back to where we started. The fact that we would then come with those stronger muscles is not humanly sustainable, but it is not sustainable economically either in my opinion, and, as has been said here, it is also a waste of the money that has already been spent in many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u353	Mr President! This is a division of misery and a pity in itself, but it would sound as if this debate has led to a backward development. Fortunately, however, in poverty, the fact is that, in line with the UN's development objectives, we have a sharp decline in the number of people living in extreme poverty. If we look at Africa, for example, I would argue that we have now moved to such a phase where, fortunately, entrepreneurship there too, a new kind of economy is emerging. In fact, I would argue that the fact that Finland's development aid, for example, is now shifting its focus towards business cooperation, trade financing, Finnfund, may well be the right stage in this world situation to go in that direction. I believe it can be of more use than just carrying water into a well. Secondly, it must be remembered that when these cuts are so much criticised here, we are now returning to the level of our economy about ten years ago. Was there a terrible situation in Finland’s development aid? I don't know. Of course, more would always be better. One word from Team Finland. I believe that even more important than five new Team Finland officials is to ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u354	Mr President! This cut in development cooperation is very cruel, at a time when we are suffering from the great refugee situation in the world and the need for development cooperation would be greater than it has been for a long time. However, it is very strange that there is a refusal on the part of the ministry to do so, namely that the same amount of savings should be made more rationally over time so as not to lose the results that have been achieved and, at the same time, the money that has already been invested would not go to waste. I would like an answer from the Minister as to why it would not be possible to do this more sensible periodicity, as the organisations have suggested. Then I will also ask about this climate finance. The world needs a comprehensive climate agreement. Finland and Finnish industry also need it to prevent carbon leakage. Climate finance is a condition for obtaining an agreement. Is Finland prepared to apply for adequate climate finance and to apply for:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u355	Let us take two more speeches, followed by five minutes for the Minister, and then, of course, let us continue. These two are Mr Ojala-Niemelä and Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u356	Madam President! I would also intervene in this increase in Finnfund's capital. This article is now allocated EUR 140 million, which will be used for financial investments as part of Finland’s development cooperation. The aid is thus converted into a loan and into an increase in Finnfund's capital. While Finnfund’s work is also important, the money for capitalisation should be directed towards actual development cooperation. I would like to ask whether this money for capitalisation can be returned to the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u357	Madam President! Yes, half the budget for development cooperation is unsustainable, and the paralysis of NGOs is also very worrying. It is no longer possible to invest in the education of women and girls as it used to be. The status of disabled people cannot be safeguarded in developing countries and people cannot be helped in refugee camps. There has been a clear strong message from Parliament that there is still a desire for change and reflection on this decision, and in your speech you yourself listed many important points. I would suggest that you consider that emissions auction revenues should, however, still be allocated to development cooperation. After all, there is a record in the Government Programme that they would be directed to the industry to compensate for emissions trading, but this, if anything, is an untenable idea that there should be further confusion with the already unworkable auction. Emissions auctions must be corrected and development cooperation taken care of. We must take care of the poorest in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u358	And then, Minister Toivakka, please, five minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u359	Ladies and gentlemen! A very good debate, and at the outset I fully share your concern that the cuts to development cooperation are regrettable. We wouldn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u362	All right, and then we'll have a lively conversation, and it'll be started by Mr. Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u363	Madam President! It is sad, however, that, despite the great ambition of 0.7, we have run into the old Eastern bloc countries where our own economy is in a rather sad state, that is to say, we are discussing 0.5 in this Chamber at the same time as Britain, the other Nordic countries, the Netherlands and others are sticking to 0.7 and many other countries are seeking it, and we are halving at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u366	Madam President! Minister, it is very arrogant of you to cut off food, vaccinations, opportunities for better governance from the poorest children in the world and for a better tomorrow. The government's argument on many points is that it is being cut because development aid needs to be developed. The framework is one of the most closely monitored items in the budget. Minister, how does development aid automatically develop when half of it is cut? Although the government is not human, it must be logical. Here, too, there are parliamentarians who are terrified of refugees. Let's talk about helping people on the ground. The contradiction is that we are not helping people on the ground either. And everyone knows that the Finns of Peru are irrational in this matter. Mr Eerola's comment was a model example of this. Personally, I blame the Coalition Party and the Centre for this decision. The government is making a shocking inhumane policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u367	Madam President! This speech by the previous representative should be taken up in the sense that I too would be sending development cooperation funds there close to crisis scenes. In this case, these immigrants could stay at the camp and not travel north through Denmark and Sweden to Finland. But, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to say a little more about this from Mr Salola when he said that Sweden is about to become a member of NATO. Is this Mr. Salolainen's own fantasy, or is that really the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u372	Congressman Salolainen, would you like to respond immediately?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u373	Yes. — Mr President! I have not said that Sweden is going to NATO. I said that there has been a strong change of opinion and, for example, all parties, the majority, except the SDP, are already in favour of NATO membership.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u376	Chairman! Mr Salolainen raised a very important point, namely that, with the Ukraine crisis, support for NATO membership has increased both among the parties and among the citizens in Sweden, and apparently, if I understood correctly, there, at least on the principle level, is ready for possible rapid changes in security policy solutions. After all, our security policy in Finland has largely been based on cooperation. Of course, we have our own credible defence, but we also work with Sweden, and defence cooperation is to be deepened. And it has also been widely thought of this NATO membership that if such a situation ever came up, that it would be more topical, it would be sought together with Sweden. Well, after all, in the early 1990s, Sweden suddenly applied for EU membership. As I recall, Mr Salolainen was then Minister. And I think now if it were to be the same with the application for NATO membership, then
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u377	Mr President! There was no answer to my question just now. I hope next time. I'm going to spell it out for you. We have the sixth extinction wave of species in the world at the moment. So a thousand times faster species are extinct than at normal background speed. We have difficulties in getting clean water, millions of people die from air pollution each year, and we have numerous environmental problems. If we do not change the basis of the economic system in the next few decades, this economic system will also collapse. And the climate agreement must be agreed in December of this year. We have promised to increase our climate finance. It was supposed to be new and additional compared to old development funding, and in many developing countries these crises go hand in hand. Of course, we need to work with companies, but we need that basis, such as the fight against soil erosion, in order for the soil to be productive, and then we can work together with companies. I am very sad that it would appear that the government does not even recognise this, that what you are talking about is actually sustainable development and that the environment is completely turned away. At least answer this question and we will find out whether you have any understanding of what crisis we are at and whether you will have more money in December.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u378	Mr President! Much has already been said about the situation of NGOs. A little less attention has been paid to these multilateral players, such as UN agencies. I would like to hear from the Minister how this is reflected in this priority in the role of girls and women and in democratic work, which is to be emphasised. I personally think it is very important that this 0.7 target remains the goal in the future and that, after these unfortunate cuts, the focus is passed on. The evaluation of NGOs is still under way, as the Minister has already referred to, so I would also like to ask about this increase in the fourth budget, which the Minister has flashed and to which Mr Niinistö has referred, and also about this cooperation at EU level, which is also under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u379	Madam President! I will return to this fourth amending budget. Is it possible, Minister, to return some of the already promised emissions auction revenues to development cooperation? They were promised in the government program. You are making a policy against your own government programme at the moment. It says clearly that they will be cut from 2016 onwards. You are cutting them, in fact, as far as the last parliamentary term is concerned. And do you know what the Commission's deficit procedure means? That does not mean that the Commission will decide for us. We need to report things forward. Many other countries have been involved in this system. In other words, this separation would be entirely possible. This is just and only a political issue of choice of values. You can do it differently if you want to do it differently, and this is a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u380	Mr President! I think I'd like to pick up a little bit on these UN agencies. I am perhaps a little concerned — although I am glad that it is thought that refugees should be helped in refugee camps — that we are thinking of building new systems now and not of directing them entirely through UN organisations, partly but not entirely. And especially if part of it is more about managing emigration, I do not think it sounds like it is ODA, for example, and perhaps that is why it is important to ensure that development cooperation funds do not go into such work. Would this be an opportunity to be sure, if not now, then later?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u381	Madam President! Minister, I hope that you will never again say in this Chamber that you will be forced to cut back on development cooperation when that is not the case. If you kept the car tax at the current level and did not reduce it by EUR 200 million, which is what you have reached in the government, you would not have to cut back on development cooperation. The net cut in development cooperation is 200 million, Minister, you have made a political choice of values. I think it would be fair and honest to admit it too, not to go behind the back of being forced to do cuts. We have a difficult economic situation, we have to make savings, but you have made value choices within the budget. You have decided to reduce the car tax instead of keeping the development budget unchanged. With regard to this periodicity, Minister, I would like to say that it is possible. I've also cleared it up with officials from the Treasury Department. It's possible. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u382	And then there is one person who has not yet received the floor in this section and who is Mr Ala-Nissila. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u383	Mr President! Representative Urplainen: I think the net car tax is 100 million because it also includes this increase in fixed assets. In general, austerity, living by means of resources, is sustainable development. But another aspect: I agree with our minister when he said that effectiveness is important. After all, the European Union is an important provider of development cooperation. There was also a problem with inefficiency all the time, and now that there is less money, this is all the more important. It is true that climate change is the biggest problem of our time. I myself think that, in the autumn, the question will then have to be looked at when the Paris meeting takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u384	Madam President! In my opinion, Mr Niinistö summed up this great problem with what we are investing in. First of all, I must say that it is sad to hear the Minister say that we really have to. In other words, it seems that the EU is forcing the separation not to be used, which is quite misleading. But more importantly, if the government says that the government does not create any jobs here in the country of origin, we now capitalise on Finnfund and think that we can create jobs here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u385	Madam President! It is true that cooperation between public, private and organisations is what has been and will continue to be the subject of development cooperation. Now, of course, the emphasis is on how it will be. But it does seem strange that Finnfund never wanted and never asked for such money, and they want to give it three times as much, while the organisation, which could find out how the Finnish company is operating in violation of human rights or the environment, is no longer funded at all. But here are some of these value choices. Then I am concerned that when we drop the number of Peacekeepers from 560 to 90, in accordance with the Government Programme, the peace settlement, which is the second foundation in Finland — we have been in UN peacekeeping operations, but we have also had Ahtisaari and our partners working hard to reconcile peace — the funding is being taken away.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u386	Mr President! It is precisely this transnational development cooperation that is one of the most vulnerable parts of development cooperation and is extremely vulnerable to corruption, whereas the development of cooperation by organisations is a grassroots work on the ground with enormous knowledge. When you say, Minister, that organisations have to cooperate with each other here in Finland, it only tells us how little you know Finnish development cooperation. We work together all the time. We meet here almost weekly, we wonder where each person’s resources and expertise are best used. Madam Minister, it is possible to re-allocate these funds without even having to deal with the cuts: you are simply refocusing this money, which is now thought to be taken away from Finnish organisations, on development cooperation between states.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u387	And a few more speeches, and then the Minister will reply, will be given five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u388	Mr President! Let's go over these figures again for the sake of accuracy: The Urplainen is right that the 200 million is the actual cut in the figures, but when the transfer of the auction income on emissions trading takes place — they are rising incomes, because the prices of emission trading are constantly rising here — is talking about more than EUR 100 million per year, and then it is transferred to Finnfund by more than EUR 100 million, too, then in practice we are cutting almost half of the actual basic development cooperation on an annual basis. It's a really big crash. And when we talk about these commitments, it is hard for the organizations, here many have said that this is the end of the projects, when their effectiveness suffers. They have promised their partners to work in these countries on these projects, and they will also have to betray their words. Then this international UN reputation, which is also here: I know a lot of people there, and yes, people have been shocked that even the United Kingdom, which has been running a truly right-wing policy, has increased development funds, and Finland is pulling in exactly the opposite direction, halves in a year when our sustainable development objectives should be implemented and the climate agreement agreed and now we need that money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u389	Mr President! I am equally concerned about Finland's reputation, and if it is not seen, it is, of course, very unfortunate. Of course, companies are also doing important work and increasingly responsible work, but it must be remembered that these organisations are doing this work on very sensitive matters. I would like to see those companies that want to work, for example, with female genital mutilation or with girls' education. In other words, this work is still needed and, unfortunately, these emergencies have not disappeared from the world. And, of course, the fact that Finland has set itself at the level of Romania and Slovakia is indeed a shame. Instead of really focusing on a sustainable society, on sustainable development, we unfortunately focus in Finland on twisting words, twisting figures and embellishing words, and I hope that at the very least we will be talking about things here under their names.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u390	Madam President! The opposition here is constantly concerned about Finland's reputation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u395	Madam President! Controlling climate change and adapting to it are extremely important issues, and I would like to emphasise once again that Finnfund's projects are in part just that. After all, there are afforestation projects, a wide range of energy projects — solar power, wind power in the poorest countries where there is no energy — and, for example, the largest pharmaceutical factory in East Africa, the highest quality, a billion pills a year or so; you know that there are no proper medicines in Africa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u398	I will give three more speeches, and they are Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Ruoho and Mr Kaikkonen, and then the Minister will reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u399	Mr President! Development cooperation through businesses is a very good thing and is undoubtedly part of the overall package. However, companies will probably not be doing many educational projects, sexual health projects, democracy projects, women's equality projects or food aid in refugee camps, for example, but it is true that not all good things are paying off. And, in fact, there is more illegal capital outflows from developing countries to tax havens than development cooperation is being given there. So I ask the Minister: will the government commit itself to closing tax havens and preventing these illegal capital outflows? Is the government acting on its behalf on the EU tables and on the international tables?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u401	Then there is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.— Congressman Kaikonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u402	Mr President! I still feel the need to clarify this NATO debate a little further, However, it is important to say now that the current Swedish Government is not in favour of NATO membership, and it does look like it has been cut in stone. Therefore, Sweden will not apply for NATO membership at least before the next elections, which will take place in 2018. What happens after the alliance parties come to power? Although there is support for NATO, it is still not clear that Sweden would then apply for NATO membership, because there seems to be quite a strong consensus on this issue. So, in practice, the Socialist position here is quite important. Will it change? It may change, it remains to be seen, but at least on this trip there were still no signs of it. Every politician we met assured us that Finland will be the first to be informed if it is to re-evaluate this issue, that it will not be the same as when applying for EU membership, when Finland was a little surprised here when Sweden announced that it would apply for EU membership.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u403	And then, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u404	Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you very much for the debate and the feedback, but at the very beginning I want to correct one wrong piece of information, which means that Finland's level of development cooperation will be 0.35% of gross national income in the future, and when we compare it with other countries, we are above the OECD average —Austria 0.24,France0.36,Germany0.41. The other Nordic countries are far ahead of us, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u411	Then we go to the list of speakers, and there is Mrs Biaudet on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u413	Madam President! I was still thinking about one last time late in the evening, because I would like to raise our defence budget again in my own speech. A credible defence is one of the subjects we should be talking about. Whatever credible national defence means, or when our national defence must be credible — that is not what we decide in this Chamber, that is not what we Finns decide or judge, but what others judge. But we must do everything in our power to ensure that the assessments made by others are consistent with the fact that Finland has credible defence forces. The 2016 defence budget includes an increase of EUR 50 million in defence equipment procurement as agreed in the Government Programme, in accordance with the report of the Parliamentary Study Group, but this defence budget still includes new operating expenditure savings and the permanent expenditure savings decided on during the previous parliamentary term total 15 million, which means that we will give with one hand, with the other hand we will take, and I think it is worth talking about this 15 million in Parliament. In accordance with the Defence Administration's salary slide and the Government Programme, these cuts will focus on operating expenditure, equipment and administrative expenditure on military crisis management, as well as state aid to defence organisations. These cuts are not in line with what we agreed together in the parliamentary working group led by Ilkka Kanerva, nor with what we agreed in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and I am surprised that this type of defence budget is being brought to Parliament. The Minister of Defence has assured me that the number of military day off and the level of military training and the number of reserve refresher exercises will be maintained at this year's level, i.e. at 18000 refresher exercises, but I do not know how it will then be adjusted. And it would be interesting to hear that, at the same time as cutting the operating costs of 15 million, the savings will be made from where they are being cut out and must be limited. Mr President! Veterans' rehabilitation funds have also been cut for this year, although at the 95th anniversary of independent Finland, the Parliament unanimously decided that the rehabilitation of veterans will be taken care of and not cut. While veterans such numerical rehabilitation money may rise, so it is honest also to admit that the average age of veterans is well over 90 years, and when age increases, the cost of these treatments will also rise. And I think it is important for Parliament to hold to that promise in its formal sitting and to take care of these honorable citizens until the last man and woman. I myself have also submitted a new proposal to abandon the 10% disadvantage of the war ovalids. At present, they are still a group — some 600 former soldiers who were hit and wounded in the war — who are completely excluded from rehabilitation. It is an intolerable and unforgivable situation. Mr President! We discussed the police today, and I would like to continue to raise my concern that, although EUR 8 million will be allocated to the police's operational expenditure next year, of which EUR 7 million will be allocated to the costs of asylum seekers, there is already a huge shortage of police officers. This situation of asylum seekers, the refugee crisis, has shown that our line on the number of policemen and women has been wrong. We have far fewer police officers than, for example, our neighbouring countries, and we must return to that. We cannot continue in this way to be forced to compromise, for example, on criminal investigations, or on the other hand on traffic control. The appropriations for policemen must be increased already for this year by means of an amending budget. Mr President! Right to the end: As regards the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I would like to highlight this long-standing desire for the recovery of the debt. We have a repair debt of more than EUR 2 billion on our roads, and now we are closing it with a pot of EUR 600 million, which will be EUR 100 million next year, plus 300 million in the following year and then another 200 million, but it should also be noted that in this way:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u414	Madam President! If you look at the budget the way you want to look at it as a representative from working life, then you have to say that there are no intelligent solutions, no alternative measures. It would have been important to note that if you want to work for Finnish employment, the cuts in education absolutely are those that do not support the possibility that we should have within the budget, that is to say to build the future as far as the government programme is concerned. It would have been important for the government to invest resources already at this stage in ensuring that we in the cleantech sector, in the bioeconomy, had the money in place so that these projects can be carried out. I would very much have liked the government to have already taken this into account in its own budget so that, for example, we would give climate-friendly investments, for example, a double right of withdrawal, so that we would have created a market for companies to order new technology in their own factories with this arrangement. It is quite clear that we are also under pressure from BAT when we are committed to the EU, and that is why we need to define that, over a four-year period, we will have to assess whether we are using the best technology to make our own industrial products. This should already have been taken into account so that those sectors where energy consumption is high could already have started to make those decisions in advance. In addition to this, the fact that we have, fortunately, investment support for projects that require innovation is a good thing. But together, these would have created an ever-increasing new development, creating new employment potential when we would have had the opportunity to create new references in this country. Fortunately, Mr Jaskari is not here. Although he was not behind the Tampere project, Tampere made its own decision to use old technology for the incineration plant when it should have been invested in Finnish, better technology. It is precisely this side of this transition to a bio-economy, and so to speak, when it is said that we are using waste again, and so on: there is no money, there is no money in higher education, there is no funding for basic research. The government itself eats up the objectives of its own programme, completely wrecks the system on which its own government programme is based. In that sense, the programme is indeed disappointing, and the budget crowns it and proves that the government's budgeting activities do not support its own government programme, staring at only one year's figures. It would have been important to go ahead with budgeting policies that promote the possibility of a new birth. Not that we had to book money for next year, but in the longer term we should be prepared for the fact that there will not be so much tax money for certain investments through these investments. There would therefore be a path to investment so that new entrepreneurship in Finland, new jobs, which would have brought the missing money into the budget, would have been created.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u415	Madam President! The main burden of government budget cuts is on the low-income, unemployed, elderly, children and young people. Prime Minister Sipilä has said that disabled people do not have surgery. What is the basis of the claim? The government will increase the customer fees for social welfare and health services, reduce the housing allowance for low-income pensioners, freeze national pensions, reduce the reimbursement of medicines, increase the responsibilities of sick taxi fares, eliminate the dietary allowance. These are the worst hit by the most vulnerable, such as pensioners and disabled people. The study will return to the level of the '90s. The government cuts off the platform for the future, research and education. It will reduce the funding for universities and reduce Tekes' concessions. At the same time, it directs research with its key projects to the sites it wants. Who has the wisdom to choose winners? We don't know what Nokia of the future is. Freedom of science is essential, freedom to choose research subjects. Then some surprising new story can come from the wing of a butterfly to be a success story for the future. Child day care is restricted to families of the unemployed and families where the parent takes care of the baby at home. It puts children in an unequal position in early childhood education. Group sizes are growing, bullying and exclusion are threatening to increase, as important welfare services, early childhood education, are being gnawed. For the environment, government policy is disastrous. The money for the acquisition of nature reserves will be dropped to a third. Finland’s natural flora is impoverished. Diversity is dwindling at a frightening rate. Still, the government cuts nature conservation with a big hand. And ending the financing of the UN Environment Programme Unep is the wrong signal under the Paris climate negotiations. It is absurd to complicate people's daily lives and reduce learning and working opportunities by abolishing commuter trains. The stop list includes, among other things, the Y train to Karjaa. No bus connection replaces the speed and streamlinedness of the train. On the contrary, the growing Helsinki region needs new commuter trains and not qualifiers. Siuntio has planned new settlements based on train traffic. Almost 400 people are already on the Y-train every day. It is also shameful to see development cooperation dwindling by cutting off half of the whole budget once and for all. The work of NGOs is paralysed. Helping refugees in camps is becoming more difficult, and it is increasingly challenging to support the education of women and girls, to reduce child mortality and to promote sustainable development throughout the world. Finland cannot rise by cutting from the weakest, education and welfare services. The green option provides for a more moderate adjustment of central government finances, worth EUR 2 billion. We reduce environmentally harmful subsidies, but we invest in education, research, digitalisation and renewable energy. We are carrying out reforms in support of small entrepreneurship and employment and we are speeding up the reform of social and health services. Border fences between basic services and specialised medical care must be removed so that people are treated and not bounced from one door to another. The Green Group is prepared to tackle the challenges in a constructive and fair way. We will present our alternative budget in a couple of weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u416	Mr President! There's a few of us left. Mr President! Indeed, the government's budget is worryingly readable, and it has been the first taste in these days. In many of its paragraphs, the Finnish policy is radically changed and, unfortunately, it is in the wrong direction. Civilisation, equality, sustainable development and international solidarity have been turned away. Education cuts are turning the Finnish level of education down and increasing inequality. Our strength lies in the opportunity for all to be educated high, whatever the background, and I am sure to be one example of it. Our strengths are based on high-quality education from early childhood education to higher education and expert basic research. This is what the government wants to cut out, even if we need to do exactly the opposite. The environment and indeed development cooperation have fallen under a similar cutter. 62% of nature conservation is cut, and that is an incomprehensible figure. These funds have ensured that many Finns enjoy a diverse nature and that everyone has the right to enjoy the unique nature of the common nature. Of course, water protection is among the main projects, but still 4.4 million less is spent on protecting our common water resources than last year. These laws and resources aimed at nature conservation are being dismantled at the same time as felling volumes are increased by up to 15 million cubic metres a year. The main focus of our nature policy cannot be the maximum use of natural resources. Nature policy must be based on sustainable development and respect for nature, or we will use shortsightedness to seize the opportunities for future growth. It is also shortsighted to scrap funding for development cooperation between Finland and Finnish organisations. NGOs have done a very good job in terms of sustainable development, democracy and equality. Projects have been built for several years, reporting transparency has been improved, and assistance will be delivered to the very place where people are, to their villages, to their schools, to their communities. Now that some 50 per cent of the funding is being cut into the wall, right now, there are very many important projects that have been important to us Finns too and for whom we have worked long-term in the world. If successful projects and the long line of Finnish foreign policy do not convince our government to cancel or even mitigate the cuts in development aid, at least look at the current international situation. Look at the news, look at the newspapers, see what is really happening in the world, see how suffering the world is at the moment. Sustainable democracy and society are not created in an instant, but in a small moment and a few decisions can destroy it. Finland’s support is needed as part of the joint work that will create a better and safer place for all of us in the world. — And there was plenty of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u417	Representative Tolppanen — absent, representative Laukkanen — absent, representative Meri — absent, representative Mölsä — absent, representative Suutari — absent, representative Halmenpää — absent, representative Alanko-Kahiluoto — absent, representative Kivelä — absent, representative Yanar — absent, representative Mäkelä — absent, representative Tavio — absent, representative Vikman — absent, representative Wallinheimo — absent, representative Nurminen — absent, representative Ihalainen — absent, representative Kulmuni — absent. Great! And in this context, I would like to say that we will suspend the sitting after Mr Kulmun has spoken and then resume tomorrow. For the record, those of you who have been here with great strength and endurance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u418	Mr President! Thank you, however, for the last speech this evening, and thank you also for your firm followers. The draft budget for the following year — a total of EUR 54.1 billion — has already received its line from the Government Programme last spring. The adjustment measures agreed at the time are now beginning to show up. They will be implemented with great determination next year, and it will reflect the decision-making capacity of the government. Over the last few months it has become clear that there is a great deal of disagreement between the parties about the current situation — its problems, its future objectives and its means. The city centre campaigned for the election with the theme "Finland in order". The aim was to secure jobs, create new ones, stop living as a debt, update Finland to the 2020s through major projects such as digitalisation, bioeconomy, reform of social and health services and regional government reform, eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and restore common sense to a culture of activity — and, above all, save the welfare society, nothing less. However, many of these objectives are so great that they are difficult to clearly put into numerical form, and it may be difficult to find some specificity behind large macroeconomic figures. However, the long-term objective is to bridge the ten billion sustainability gap in central government finances so that expenditure does not exceed revenue and debt need to be taken less. In next year's draft budget, borrowing will be reduced from EUR 5.2 billion to EUR 5 billion. This is, of course, a budget that lives according to the situation. Three amending budgets have been proposed this year, and in the same way, there are good opportunities for amending budgets for next year. Of course, the government program is not such a straitjacket that it would not yield a million. Some changes have already been made since the programme was published, for example, the housing allowance for pensioners is not affected as severely as originally recorded. The increased expenditure on the increase in the number of asylum seekers has also rightly been taken into account in the draft budget for additional resources. It is terribly good that the government, on the basis of its citizens' feedback, has also been prepared to look at its own actions. The government will act with determination but listening. Perhaps a rather low-wage women’s message that they are willing to make sacrifices if they feel that they are fair is the guiding principle. It is, of course, important that this line of equity be reflected in the government's actions. There has been a call for equality in the speeches here today, which have focused on the participation of the well-off. It is true that it is more difficult to cut off the good people, because they use very little public services and receive very little income transfers of any kind. However, as we have heard, they also take part in the voluntary work. The ceiling for the additional 2 percentage points of the solidarity tax will be calculated from EUR 90000 per year to EUR 72300 for the next two years — for example, it will also be applied to Members of Parliament. But there are certainly more powerful ways to prevent the black economy. The overall allocation for major projects may be small figures, but it is even more important to develop. For example, an additional EUR 100 million has been put forward to reduce the amount of the renovation debt for next year, and this is no small amount of the total amount of the 600 million pot. Of course, road maintenance is important to us in a large country, but I am concerned that, if we talk about international transport projects in the Barents region, the railway section from Oulu to Tornio and Luleå, which is important for the business community, is currently not reflected in the budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This is also a question of security of supply. And, as we have heard this evening, the blackmails associated with development policy are unfortunate, and I hope that we will continue to be able to look at the pains associated with the budget. But there's also such a lot of good things out there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u419	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u420	Congressman Feldt Beach.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u421	Mr President! Many people have bought a home because of good transport connections along the tracks in different parts of Finland. Now, Minister Berner, you have decided to abolish train traffic completely, for example in Siuntio, where 300 people use trains every day for work or school trips. People in North Karelia, Pirkanmaa, Ostrobothnia and Central Finland are also rightly concerned and very disappointed. Yesterday in Helsingin Sanomat there was a striking article about the fate of one train passenger: "The train passed through the cultural landscape of Western Uusimaa. There was a girl's voice in the trailer. The girl told me that high school is the worst decision of her life. He has to drop out of school in the spring, because this train will be shut down, and he doesn't know what to do, and now he's crying. And he cried. The Y train between Helsinki and Karjaa has been decided to end in March. This is how you crush dreams." Minister Berner, do you understand the concerns of these people? Do you understand the impact of these closure decisions on people's everyday lives?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u422	Mr President! I understand the concerns of these people very well, and that is why a great deal of work has been done on these issues. The task has been to cut public transport by EUR 15 million, and in order to replace it we have now sought solutions that would enable transport to survive. This will be achieved partly by means of replacement train and bus services, but we are also looking for a solution to enable us to get replacement train services for this operation. These decisions are made precisely because we want to take into account the fact that people can move. The fact that the state is abolishing purchasing traffic does not mean that all transport stops, but that we have the opportunity to obtain better service without using taxpayers' euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u423	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register and press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u424	Mr President! Prime Minister, since people cannot be left empty and market forces have no interest in managing the entire traffic in Finland, we have a constructive solution for you, which we hope you will consider. Prime Minister, last season you were driving up the tobacco tax as an alternative to cutting child supplements, and now you could use the same model that you were driving, and in that way save these train shifts. You have decided to spend EUR 200 million on reducing car taxation. What if you were to consider spending EUR 15 million on this EUR 200 million to support this train transport and to ensure that Finland could also continue to be a country in which all over Finland could live and be public transport? Prime Minister Sipilä, will you accept this constructive proposal and thus save the important train connections of these thousands of people and ensure that the whole of Finland can continue to be kept inhabited?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u425	Mr President! We will ensure that the whole of Finland continues to be inhabited, and we will ensure that public transport operates throughout the country. But we are not offering a tax increase as a solution; we are seeking a solution. If VR does not want to operate some routes, we will get a private operator there. Interested parties have signed up for it, and we now want to test whether the solution can be found in this way. I believe that the solution will be found this way and eventually the person along every route that has been closed will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u426	Mr President! I believe that the idea of opening up passenger train services to competition is worth exploring, and it is worth learning from what has been done in neighbouring countries, for example. However, it is quite absurd to think that there will now be a lot of competition between those who are now closing down — for example, Joensuu-Nurmes, which has specifically needed state aid in order to maintain rail transport there. The Joensuu-Storage interval, which enables cross traffic from Joensuu to Jyväskylä and Tampere, is also extremely important, and it is precisely that it is a train distance, because if we arrange it by bus to Varkaus and then from Varkaus to Pieksämäki, where there is an exchange, time is spent, money is spent, it will be so complicated that the use of the train will be reduced significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u427	Mr President! In the current contractual situation, we are in a position for VR to open up competition to other willing bidders on routes where VR does not operate. With other willing providers on these routes we already have some and negotiations are taking place, we now want to find out that we are getting market-based traffic, without taxpayers' money, on these routes, which are now going away from purchasing traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u428	Mr President! Today we have received various and conflicting information on the privatisation of VR’s operations. Privatisation seems to be an ideological absolute value for this government and Minister Berner. Controversial and ever-changing communication of information seems to be the policy of this government. I would like to ask Minister Berner: on what grounds is the privatisation of VR's activities being speeded up? In Britain, for example, privatisation of rail transport has led to higher ticket prices, a confused ticket system, congestion, old equipment and high costs. I would also like to ask you, Minister Berner: what private body will, according to the government, then operate unprofitable routes in the future, or is it to create a new form of state aid for a new private operator?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u429	Mr President! We are not privatizing VR, we are not privatizing traffic. We are abolishing VR's exclusive rights to transport routes where VR is currently not operating. These are not the same things. In some countries railway travel companies have been privatised. In this case, we are not doing it. This terminology has come from somewhere else than us or me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u430	Mr President! It is indeed important that rail transport is also carried out in the periphery of the provinces, and this was good news that passenger trains would be opened up to competition on the routes where VR will stop, despite the fact that, for example, there are many passengers in Western Uusimaa and we will also be there north of Tampere until Keuruu. But last week we had freight transport operators in the Committee on Transport and I asked them what price you would make passenger transport. They said that at about three quarters of what VR is doing, but the problem is that there should be leasing equipment, it is not worth buying equipment if you are not quite sure, and then that the passenger numbers are good and thirdly, of course, that the contracts are long enough. When the schedule is rather challenging, I would have asked if it would be expected that next spring such operators would come. Secondly, there are, of course, those who are willing to take part in bus transport, but they would like to be included in the general rule, i.e. to take subsidised tickets. There's one operator out there...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u431	At this point, it would be Minister Berner's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u432	Mr President! The aim is to ensure that the conditions for the opening of the exclusive traffic rights can be created by spring 2016 and it will very much require the clarification of the very questions you have raised — how the equipment, safety and authorisation procedures will be resolved — and these are the issues that are now being discussed with the various companies. There are parallel negotiations with the bus and coach companies to organise market-based bus services, and we have already received applications for authorisation from the majority of the regions in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u433	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, slowly beginning to survive and, in fact, at an accelerating pace, that you are crushing the Finnish welfare society and exposing us to the Finnish people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u434	Mr President! What I do not understand is how it would crush the welfare society, that for routes where VR stops operating, VR would become a private operator.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u435	Mr President! There are many examples here when, for example, the transport of goods in the 70s has been liberalised to competition. And now we are in a situation where you are building a package of offers, where these unprofitable routes in remote areas are linked to this route of Siuntio, and that is how you will seek in the future that these routes will be closed down with competitive tendering. This will have a clear impact on the services of these people in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u436	I would see Minister Berner at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u437	Mr President! With the liberalisation of bus and coach transport, more operators have been provided, more routes have been obtained, cheaper prices have been obtained and better customer service has been provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u438	Mr President! Yesterday, there was a debate on public transport in rural areas and it was said that 200 services have been reduced. In the countryside, where there are few people, this logic does not play.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u439	Mr President! This traffic has been abolished by the previous government, specifically by purchasing. Market-based transport has then found its place and started to fill the gaps caused by the services deducted from purchasing traffic for bus transport. These have been the decisions of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u440	Mr President-in-Office! The North Karelians are deeply concerned about the threat of the abolition of train services between the Nurmes and the estuary. Although North Karelia is a sparsely populated area, they also need operational transport connections. Minister Berner, can the North Karelians count on the maintenance of train traffic between Nurmes and Joensuu, and if competition is opened, will rail transport continue to work until new entrepreneurs can start?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u441	Mr President! We are working well and quickly to ensure that we are able to mobilise as many new players as possible and to take an interest in these routes, including the North Karelia region in particular, where there has been a great deal of concern and demand for this route. At the same time, it is up to us to look at the solutions that we will then seek for the interim period in due course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u442	Mr President! These train routes will not be discontinued by VR, they will be discontinued by the government by removing the purchase services from these routes. And now you say that when these are abolished at the beginning of March, new operators will be sought by then. Who are these new players? If we are thinking of Finnish rail transport, we have a different track gauge than the rest of Europe, we have very different northern conditions — this requires very special expertise. Do you really believe, Minister Berner, that in six months we will be able to put new players on these tracks from almost nothing? And the second question: if VR cannot do them on market terms, what is the wonder that a private company that has to make a profit from them is able to carry them forward on market terms? Can you guarantee that at the beginning of March VR stations will not slow down?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u443	Mr President! As I have just said, by next spring, spring 2016, we will be able to prepare the conditions for opening up competition. This means that when these VR purchase agreements end — in fact, at the turn of the year — and with VR it has been agreed that they will continue until mid-March, then it is up to us to see that we will be able to secure traffic during the transitional period, until we get the market-based traffic started.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u444	Herr Talman! Det är faktiskt så att det är många som är bekymrade över det som sker, till exempel i Sjundeå, i Ingå och på många andra håll.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u445	Mr President! Of course, we won't be able to compete in a week. We need to do a careful job here, and the process chart goes exactly as Minister Berner said. In other words, we prepare it carefully and then we compete and do it carefully in such a way that the conditions will be created in the spring, and then we will be able to start operating in time perhaps at the end of the year next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u446	Mr President! Let me repeat what came out here: The Prime Minister said that VR will close, but it is not that VR will stop, but that this is the government's decision to stop traffic, to bag North Karelia, to put Pirkanmaa, Central Finland, Seinäjoki-Jyväskylä and West Uusimaa to suffer. Now that you're doing this, this is the sum you're saving... It is not a question of making a tax increase, but of reducing the reduction in the car tax that you have decided to make by one fifteenth. So a fifteenth less reduction in car tax could be fixed. And now this process: First you shut down and then you say let's start thinking about whether there's something else to replace it. So you're making a huge insecurity for these people about their future and their commute, and then you're thinking about it. And when you, Prime Minister, said that people will ultimately be satisfied with this decision, can you say one municipality or province that would have praised this decision of yours now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u447	Mr President! I do not know about compliments, but since tax policy is at issue, two points are made: The first is that our aim in tax policy is to avoid any riftiness, that is to say, that it is logical and understandable. And the other one: As I am sure you are well aware, since you are of course an expert in this area, we will not be earmarking taxes in any form either, because it would simply create a tax package through the tax revenue of 49.1 billion which we currently have that would not work. So the answer to your proposal is absolutely no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u448	Mr President! There are two different issues here. I find myself somewhat confused that the government is right on the other, but fortunately on the other. Where the government is right: It is true that increasing competition, especially in regional transport, could increase rail use, improve the quality of services, lower prices, and it would be worth developing Finnish rail transport in this direction. Examples of Europe are good, as long as it does not mean privatisation, as long as it does not mean losing public control. At the moment, VR is in fact transferring some of its large urban areas from its revenue, and it then finances traffic elsewhere. But the thing where the government is wrong is that purchasing services are needed to ensure that all Finns are on good public transport connections. It has to be open and transparent. Now that you are cutting down on purchasing traffic, there is a risk that in remote areas and outside urban centres the contribution that municipalities are
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u449	Mr President! Representative Niinistö is right: By creating other competition for exclusive routes, we improve services, we create more competitiveness at prices. But it is also quite clear that there is a need for shopping alongside it. All we have to do is build passenger transport as a whole in another way, so that the majority of it operates on market terms, serving the customer, creating competition and better service, and then society takes care of those areas that are left unserviced. This requires a change of structure and a reform of the overall picture, and this is now the first step in the process chart. These are long-term processes and require time, but we are going in that direction to develop this overall picture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u450	Mr President! Undoubtedly, the hairs rose slightly in those areas where this first information came about, that there would be an end to train traffic, and it has now been very comforting to hear that the government is finding ways to ensure that rail transport can continue to be secured. This operation of VR, for example, on the Haapamäki track, has been bizarre. For example, it has not served commuting at all. There has been no marketing and, in fact, there is no desire to serve the customers in the way that there might be a need there. I would now like to ask you, Minister: What is your message now, for example, to the inhabitants of Haapamäki? Can we breathe a sigh of relief in that we will have traffic in one way or another and the trains will continue to run?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u451	Mr President! We will do everything we can to ensure that people are able to rely on predictability and long-termity in transport, from the point of view of rail transport, bus transport and the overall development of passenger transport. You've been talking about process and order. Since we are doing this precisely from the point of view of the State and as a social measure, we will first have to make the cuts that come into the budget of the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u454	Two or three more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u455	Mr President! This debate is getting even more confusing. It is very difficult to understand that, while it is said that traffic is needed on low traffic lines, and the government is also prepared to engage in this purchasing activity there, why these train connections are now being closed down, people are being really confused about what is going to happen here. I would like to ask who is operating on the tracks between Lieksa and Nurmes after mid-March.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u456	Mr President! We are in a situation where we have to cut back on many activities and many services during this reign. In parallel, it is up to us to seek opportunities that do not burden our government budget but enable services through digitalisation, the dismantling of standards and alternative solutions. And that's what we're doing right now. We will be able to comment a little later on on how these negotiations are progressing with the various players.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u457	Mr President! It is important that public transport operates throughout the country. However, there are now concerns about, among other things, regional bus services and now also train services. I welcome the fact that these lines and connections that VR has not operated are now also being offered to private operators. They can complement VR’s offering. Mr President! However, the government is directing 600 million to improve the road network. However, for a lot of Finns, public transport does not offer the possibility of mobility, but requires a car of its own. I would like to ask you, Mr Berner, how is this road renovation now intended to proceed, on what timetable and how, so that the whole of Finland and the countryside are taken into account, that roads and bridges can be put in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u458	Mr President! With regard to the repair debt, 600 million will be spent approximately half and half on the maintenance of the network and the road network. It is precisely through small projects that we make sure that we can improve our network of channels in a comprehensive way. It is based on a set of employment areas, business needs and conditions, safety, the environment and future projects. The first 100 million will start after the turn of the year and will go to 16. In 17 years, we will have EUR 300 million already available, which hopefully will also create dynamics and growth in these regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u459	Mr Essayah and then the first questioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u460	Mr President! Minister Berner, you have now constantly stressed that only those rail routes that VR does not operate are now opening up this competition. However, the State has a monopoly agreement with VR until 2024, and in return for this monopoly VR has also maintained these routes which are not so economically viable. But how do you think that, in the light of the EU's competitive neutrality, we can only partially dismantle this monopoly? I believe that now there are those companies that want to come to the Nuremes-Lieksa-Joensuu route because they know that they will then be able to peel cream from those regions in southern Finland where this train traffic is economically profitable and then they will be able to end Nurmes, Lieksa, once and for all,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u461	Mr President! We have precisely the starting point that our agreement with VR currently allows other operators to operate where VR does not operate. At the same time, we also look at the whole and our current agreement with VR, which runs until 2024. It is clear that the monopoly will continue to be called for and required to carry out compulsory transport. For that we need a moment to think about these criteria as a whole. The railway package will be discussed in the EU next week. However, it is aimed at – the EU’s starting point – the national liberalisation of rail transport by 2019. This is where Finland will seek its own line, and then we will take care of how these can be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u462	And then the author of the first question, Mrs Feldt-Ranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u463	Mr President! You can't leave people on top of nothing like this. In this way, you have created great uncertainty in many parts of Finland. This has a really big impact on people's everyday lives. This has implications for housing prices, for family thinking, where their children study. The costs and times of people's commuting will increase significantly, and you have no guarantee that there will be some substitute traffic on these routes. You have not provided any calculations on which this plan of yours is based, and for some reason you have not wanted to tell anyone. Finland is not a company; we are a nation, and now we are in the parliament of the country, and the Finns, who are in great distress, have earned better explanations. In what way are you, the government, prepared for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u464	Mr President! The government has a great responsibility to ensure that we can maintain public transport throughout the country that serves both business and employment areas, students and schoolchildren. That is the work we are doing, even though we have to make cuts in purchasing traffic. It is up to us, and also to you, to ensure that the best possible service is provided for the taxpayer's euro and that we also achieve new forms of activity and new types of service. That's what we're doing. Quite similarly, when we were opposed to the liberalisation of the telecommunications market, without the work that people then did and defended, today we would not have the whole of Finland in front of mobile services at the price that it is now. This is the same work we are doing now, and it is the responsibility of all of us, including the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u465	We shall now move on to the next question. Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u466	Mr President! The government’s intention to turn the first sick day out of pay has given rise to a great deal of concern. People who, for example, have long - term illness often have to be absent from work for short periods of time are particularly concerned. I am talking about people with cancer, for example. But this initiative also has a class impact. A white-collar worker is much more likely to be able to work at a distance from home, thus saving his salary even in the cold, while a jumper worker is not in a position to do so. This has sexual effects. Women working in nursing, nursing and educational fields suffer more often from flu waves than men and, of course, cannot go to work to make others sick. On the basis of the last few weeks, I am not quite sure whether it is customary for the government to consider in advance the effects of these openings, but if there is someone in the ministry who has done so, I would now like him to tell me what is going to be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u467	Mr President! I am sure that this is something we have all had in mind now, and of course it is quite clear that at the time, now that we are going to go through this whole, we will certainly think about how and how this will be done. But, as I am sure this is also the case in this Wednesday's debate, this is one of the measures that the government is now committed to, and of course we will then carry out that assessment and carry out the impact assessments as to whether there is a need to reflect on whether there are any possible reasons for us to take different measures in such long-term illnesses. But as the questioner will understand, we will now begin to prepare these presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u468	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a supplementary question to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u469	Mr President! From the experience of Sweden, for example, we know that the lack of pay for the first sick day does not reduce absenteeism. However, this is a genuine problem; Finland’s occupational well-being debt amounts to 40 billion — 40 billion. Fortunately, we also know that there are ways of effectively reducing this occupational well-being debt. Such a trust-based management culture that focuses on well-being at work can significantly reduce workplace absenteeism. Well, now the government is from the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health cutting out a third of the staff. These are the very people who have paid their wages back many times in companies and working communities by reducing these sick absences. Here, on a global scale, we have praise for the knowledge we have gained, which is now going to the unemployment card. Should we not, however, use means known to work and not means known to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u470	Mr President! Well-being at work is a very important issue, and that is why the ministry has already started to work for it and specifically to seek the good practices that we are sure to have a lot of. It is now precisely the essential question of how these good practices are put into the workplace too, so that it is also increased in well-being at work and well-being at work. This is also one part of this. The Government's key projects include this particular promotion of health and well-being, which also includes the maintenance of work and well-being at work. We all know for sure here in the Chamber, who have any knowledge of these matters, that, for example, depression leaves us with a considerable number of premature retirements or sick absences of very long durations. These are the issues in which we need to go to the grassroots level and specifically start thinking about the concrete ways in which we can tackle them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u471	Mr President! When it comes to well-being at work, it should also be pointed out that the government has taken decisions that are supported by the opposition, at least that is what I understand. The "Working Life 2020" project is a project that seeks to implement these good practices in the field, workplaces and, in particular, small workplaces. The government is not overly concerned about well-being at work — it is a very important issue to which Mr Kontula drew attention: that is where it is actually happening, in any way without beinglittled. The work of the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health will be done at the workplace at the end of the day; all we have to do is put those good practices into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u472	Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, you rightly raised the question that well-being at work is a key issue to which attention should be paid. According to studies by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, long sick leave is one of the things that would reduce the costs of absenteeism most effectively, by ensuring good care and by ensuring access to care, and by investing in rehabilitation and well-being at work. I ask you: why are you now punishing the ordinary hard-working workers who suffer from the flu and are infected, for example, while working in the children's ward? And then they have to lose this one working day for every sick leave. Why not focus on the essential — reducing sick leave through these long absenteeisms, so that nothing needs to be cut out when investing in well-being at work and securing good care, rehabilitation, and investing in being able to return to work in time?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u473	Mr President! These things do not, in themselves, rule out each other. This sick day's absence is one measure in the overall package of the government, but it does not rule out that we are not going to deal specifically with what I said before, this prevention, and precisely how we encourage and support people's working lives and how they feel that they are doing and participating in it as strongly as possible in the workplace and that they feel that it is meaningful for the working community and for their own work. And, for example, bullying at work is one of those things that is still not being talked about enough in our society, and many of these long absenteeisms are precisely due, for example, to the bullying of the workplace that we have unfortunately paid little attention to in this political debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u474	Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, you have just raised the issue on which I too would have liked to ask: bullying at work, which is a great shame in the Finnish workplace. Very many absenteeism certainly depends and is also due to the lack of tools and operating models at the workplace to bring these big, bad and human-eating things to light. In what way, good government, are you perhaps now taking this matter forward, then, that these models of action should be brought to the workplace and that there should not be a situation where only shop stewards and occupational safety and health advisers and workers would reflect on these issues? This is a very brutal issue, and, Members of Parliament, at least I myself get a lot of mail on these matters, even letter mail, where people are very anxious to ask for help. What can we do to raise this serious problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u475	Mr President! What the government is now going to do about this: Of course, in the Ministry of Health and Safety, which is one of the essential players in this whole area, I have already launched this strong cooperation, and I believe that it is where we will find the means. But there are a lot of other actors here that we need to be involved in this whole, and they are precisely the people who, for their part, will see to it that this well-being at work is truly realised there at the workplace. Well, then the second point is precisely these key projects. In other words, through them we have the opportunity to change those practices and also to find those investments and investments there and to be able to implement them: prevention, early intervention. This will play a very important role in occupational health care. So there is knowledge and knowledge, but this is exactly what we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u476	Congressman Nylund. - Excuse me, Congressman Nylander, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u477	Mr President! I'm sure I'll get used to being Nylund. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : My policy to change. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u480	Mr President! This part of the government’s proposal is always overlooked. In other words, we have made a very strong security package as part of this improvement in cost competitiveness. There is an amount equivalent to one month's salary for the training of the worker in favour of employment, which is now becoming more and more difficult as changes in working life are rapid. The importance of occupational health care is also emphasised in this kind of dismissal, and this package has a six-month benefit: it is mandatory for the employer that in the event of dismissal for productive or economic reasons, occupational health care continues for six months, in this difficult situation for the employee. And in the same package we have also fixed it for the women-dominated jobs that were on the table for a long time, the cost of parenting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u481	Next, Mr Zyskowicz — his name I remember well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u483	Mr President! This is exactly how the representative brought it up. — I am not going to try to pronounce a name here so that this is not an accident. But it is precisely that this is one difficult decision as part of the overall package. And I am sure that it is also essential to remember, if we are talking about this whole, or the welfare of the work, that employers also have a very great responsibility there in how they contribute to ensuring that the workers are able, and what are the measures, the services, the atmosphere created in the workplaces, whether there is predictability, whether there is permanence there. In other words, these are the responsibility of all parties, not only the government's measures, not only the minister or the ministry, but also the role and role of employers in this as a whole is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u484	Mr President! It has been pointed out that the opposition would suspect that this sick day reform is due to the fact that the hangovers are now being hunted here, and indeed I have little doubt about it. Yesterday, among other things, Mr Heinonen spoke here to reflect on the 17% who have sometimes declared that they had been unjustly absent from work, without even considering the 83 percent of Finns who have not been, including firefighters who may lose three days’ wages during one unpaid day, or these long-term sick people who may lose hundreds of euros of their bankrolls in one month. This does not seem to me to be the kind of risk transfer that would in any way be reasonable, reasonable, fair, and when it does not even work according to the studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u485	Mr President! As I think I said in my first speech, it is very important that we go over the whole. We fully understand your concerns that arise from there. They're no stranger to us either. But, as I said, this is one decision, one part of the government package.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u488	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that this debate has also brought up the other side of this competitiveness package, which we have had a lot of talk about yesterday, namely security of change. However, even in this debate, people who, because of illness, mental or physical, are not on sick leave alone, but are completely excluded from working life have fallen short. We know that we are constantly losing qualified people outside the labour market because legislation, practices and attitudes in Finland are still in place in Finland, even after many years of government objectives, that either there is or is not at work. I am very glad that one of the government's top projects is linked to this part-time capacity, that is to say, seeing in a person the opportunity, what he has left of the ability to work, and not putting him aside because he is sick in one way or another. I particularly look at this from the point of view of mental health problems. I would like to ask Minister Mäntylä: how is this key project going and what is the government looking for this season in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u489	Mr President! It is precisely through this project that the government is seeking to recognise the value of these people who are able to work part-time, and we are creating and giving them the opportunity to have a genuine opportunity to participate in working life as well as to have opportunities to make their own choices and feel that they also have value in society. And as Mr Saarikko has pointed out here, it is precisely one important group that is responsible for these mental health rehabilitation. I believe that it is through this project, in fact, that I know that through this project we will be able to create genuine pathways for them to work there, and also to the objective that we will be able to create work routes for them there, in time, also for the open labour market. Of course we must remember that there are always people who, unfortunately, may not be able to find employment in a completely open labour market in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u490	Mr President! The question of promoting part-time work is very important, but it does not have anything to do with this issue, this hospital. I would like to ask the government: do you understand that with this proposal you are actually shortening the working life and that with this proposal you are making it difficult in this society for those people who have a reasonably long career behind them who have done physically hard work, who often suffer from rheumatic diseases, different wear and tear, and who would still like to work before they fall into very small retirement? And I ask you again: do you understand in that government that you are also making it difficult for these very same people to be transferred to the general housing allowance? [First Vice-President Mr Mario Pekkarinen : Mr Janyt would be Minister Mintylä's ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u493	Mr President! I have now tried on several occasions to point out to you that it is quite clear that, when decisions of this kind are taken, the overall impact will, of course, be assessed. I therefore believe that, since the majority of the political decision-makers in this House are political decision-makers, part of the opposition, who have also been sitting in the government, they know that these processes are going to take place and that this will provide us with more information and will also enable us to assess whether there are any measures that we must then take in order to ensure equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u496	We still have time to take a few quick questions. Next up, Congressman Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u497	Mr President! Finland’s nature, forests and waters are national capital, the most valuable heritage of Finns. The Government has begun to promote the incorporation of Metsähallitus. Metsähallitus Nature Services is Finland's strongest expert in nature conservation and the guardian of national natural heritage such as national parks. The Government has changed the previous preparation in such a way that the role of Nature Services is reduced and expertise is compromised. In addition, state waters are being transferred to commercial activities. Until now, they have belonged to Metsähallitus Nature Services, which manages nature and guarantees citizens the opportunity to refresh themselves. In the future, Metsähallitus could transfer the waters to private commercial use. I ask Minister Tiilikainen: how will the government ensure that the incorporation of Metsähallitus does not lead to a loss of important expertise in nature and the transformation of state forests and waters into commercial goods?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u498	Mr President! Thanks for asking. When the Metsähallitus Act is revised, the state’s land and water assets will remain directly owned by the State. They will not be transferred to any company. Nature services will remain a part of Metsähallitus' package and provide us with well-being in society called nature conservation values and diversity, recreational services. The role of Nature Services will continue to be the provider of these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u499	Mr President! The new draft law no longer states that Metsähallitus should examine the impact of the use of state land and water on the Sami culture. Furthermore, the draft law does not give the Sámi or other citizens the right to appeal against Metsähallitus' decisions. I would therefore like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: is the government really going to refer down to the rights of the Sami people, and is the government going to safeguard the rights of the Sami people to preserve their own culture and to pursue their livelihoods? Are you going to ratify the ILO 169 Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u500	Mr President! Of course, not all of these questions are answered by the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, but are also very much the responsibility of other ministries. In fact, it is interesting what draft law you are talking about, because the draft Metsähallitus law has not even been sent to statements yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u501	Next question, Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u502	Mr President! The Government Programme states that a detailed programme of measures to remove tasks and obligations for municipalities, together with concrete proposals, would be ready by the time of the budget debate. Obviously, a study group has already been set up for this work, but the results have not yet been seen. The Government's objective is to reduce municipalities' tasks by EUR 1 billion, which is one tenth of the sustainability gap in the public finances as a whole. I would like to ask you, Minister Vehviläinen: what is the timetable for the process in this reduction in the functions of the municipalities, and will the budget target of EUR 1 billion under the Government Programme be achieved during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u503	Mr President! I note that this preparation was launched immediately after the government started and has been the work of the ministries for months, and in the budget debate we had a debate on the state of preparation. Yesterday there was a deadline for the number of proposals put forward by the municipalities and there were over 200 proposals. They will also be carefully reviewed in the coming weeks. The objective is that by the end of this year this work will have been completed. The work is very challenging, getting EUR 1 billion together, but that is what we are going to do. Next, next March, the spending limits debate will assess these impacts on how to achieve the most accurate cost impact, between 2016 and 2017, the preparation of legislation in this house, and then they will come into force. And what can be done about the billion — I dare not say that during this parliamentary term yet
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u504	Last question, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u505	Mr President! The use of renewable energy is a great opportunity for Finland, and according to recent forest inventories, young growing forests have huge logging waste, which brings both fibrewood to the market and energy wood to thermal boilers in the energy industry. Annual support for the production of energy wood has been provided by Kemera, and now that this law has been amended, support for energy wood has been changed to support small trees and all the money spent on energy wood is now distributed to both energy wood and fibrewood, and the forest industry has taken advantage of this opportunity. The market price for fibrewood has been calculated and the whole amount, which is a large quantity, will be both fibrewood and energy wood on the roadside, and the entire pot will receive the subsidy. It is now that the money is running low and imports of energy wood themselves are suffering by this means. I would like to ask the Minister what is to be done to put this in order, because the intention was to bring energy wood to the roadside and the fibre tree is probably still there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-01-ps-43.u506	Mr President! When we want to promote the harvesting of energy wood, subsidies under the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act really do affect it, just as the questioner well described the situation. As part of the government's savings decisions from the beginning of next year, these Kemera subsidies will also be cut. And when this aid is reduced, it is advisable to assess these conditions for granting the aid. That wood harvesting support referred to by the questioner in young forest management areas: its conditions will be changed in such a way that the support will be given to the harvesting of a more repressed site, if you would say so, by limiting or raising the number of trees to be removed. In that case, the areas from which the fibrewood needed by the forest industry, which is good enough for it, will not be eligible for subsidies. On the other hand, the aid is targeted at areas that will become a lot of energy. That is what is to be done.
