ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 1/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u2	Mr President! The first parliamentary report will be on the table during the parliamentary term. The content of the Government proposal is not particularly challenging. It proposes to amend Article 36 of the Aliens Act. , which lays down general conditions for the issue of a residence permit. There is still a sentence in Article 36(1) of the Aliens Act since 2007, according to which endangerment of public health does not prevent the granting of further authorisation if the conditions for granting such authorisation are otherwise in place. This sentence, which is therefore contained in the law still in force, has fallen at the end of the last parliamentary term in the context of an inadvertent reform of the law out of the draft law. This unintentional change is now coming into force by Law 507/2015 very soon, to be precise, in just over a week's time on 1 June 2015. It is therefore a question of correcting a purely technical error which is about to be born into the law. It is desirable and desirable that Parliament, by adopting the draft law before us, should ensure that the legal order is as intended. The Administrative Committee has consulted experts on the proposal, held a debate and unanimously decided to support the adoption of the Board's proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u3	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee and the chairman of the committee for this report — although this was of course a little more technical than this, there is certainly some symbolism here. The question arises as to whether this is a new era compared to the previous period. I myself sat in the Administrative Committee for the last parliamentary term, and I did have the impression that there was always a great deal of torque and different aspects of this immigration policy, especially when the foreign law was being discussed. Very often we had to vote, very often we had to vote in this Chamber. Now, of course, the question arises as to whether a new era is now beginning in which these immigration and foreign affairs can be dealt with in a more united manner here in Parliament. And now that I look at the working group guidelines that have been announced on the government negotiations, I can say that the Finns of Finland, in particular, have made their positions on these immigration and foreign issues at a record pace. I could therefore ask, here on Friday, — especially if and when it seems that the Finnish line on these immigration issues is continuing in all its essentials — in particular the Finns on the ground: is my assumption right that in future these immigration and foreign affairs can be dealt with with with with greater consensus in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u4	Mr President! I must say to Mr Lindtman that it depends, of course, terribly much on what your view will be: if you take a broad approach and look at things on many sides, then we will certainly find common ground. That is certainly the case, and I think that this is what we are trying to do, to agree on the issues of immigration, to see the human issues that must be taken into account in it, but we dare also talk about those things which seem to have been banned until now. In order for us to be able to discuss matters, that requires that we work together well from the very beginning. Hopefully, whoever is in that government, the opposition and the government will be able to do the same work and move on to the same track. We were able to take into account, among other things, things that have not been discussed so far, such as the acceptance and recognition of the skills of a person coming to Finland with refugee status. At the moment, we are a country that can afford to leave, for example, the professional skills of a person who has received medical training on the other side of the border. These are the things we should discuss. It is good to talk about what kind of immigration policy is a good policy, what kind of good is good for Finland and what kind of good is good for immigrants who come here. Of course, we take into account the conditions people come from and what they have done. I'd be happy to offer a hand and cooperation here to the demars as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u5	Mr President! I can see that there has been some kind of change in this. I also raised the matter, perhaps because when the debate was held before the elections on this matter and when I read this Finnish immigration policy programme, it raised some concerns about whether the Finnish line is now changing substantially, and the question arises whether the Finnish borders are now being completely closed – a lot of such speeches were also made in the line of the Finns. But now that I read this working group of government negotiators on a common immigration policy for the parties there, I really notice that these issues have not come into this line — the number of quota refugees remains unchanged, the borders remain open, Finland participates in the international burden-sharing — so I assume that this speech by Tolppanen means that these issues can be dealt with more individually in the future. And we must thank the Finns of Peru for the fact that even though the turn of the coat has been quick, it has been done in the right things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u6	Mr President! This immigration and foreign policy and its responsible, good management is a very important part of our national success. I would like to join those who acknowledge the President. The results of the government negotiations led by Sipilä to date. It is truly a very valuable thing if such a difficult whole can be reached with such a substantial and reasonably good consensus as has now taken place in these government negotiations. When immigration issues have been the subject of great interest, but also of great passions, it is clear that if a government has such a sensible line as has been reported so far, then I believe that it can certainly be supported in the future opposition, and that it will provide the conditions for a reasonably good, balanced and also citizen-friendly immigration and foreign policy. This consensus, which has been seen today in this committee's report, hopefully also promises a good continuation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u7	Mr President! I agree with this question by Mr Lindtman and I will make it a little more concrete. Perhaps the Finns in the House can answer the more specific question: Has the entire Nuiva Election Manifesto and the Finnish Immigration Policy Programme been thrown into a scrap heap, thanks to the government negotiations led by Juha Sipilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u8	Mr President! With interest, I'm listening here. I see that the opposition is very well aware of the government negotiations and knows what has been negotiated there. I understand that there is quite a consensus on many things at the moment. As far as the Nuiva Manifesto — I do not know it myself — I was really surprised to learn that it has even been in government negotiations. This is just like news if that is the case. But I cannot take a position on this because I have not been involved in this. But if we go to what is currently being discussed, that is to say to endanger public health, then this was indeed a technical correction of this kind to the legislation. In this context, I would like to say that I would like this Parliament, which is now really starting its work, and the committees to draw attention to the fact that our legislation is something that is easy to interpret, that there will be no room for interpretation, because the clearer the legislation is, the clearer the courts, for example, can make decisions and the less need for different forms of complaint. Complaints are long, cost a lot. They cost a lot to society as a whole. But if we continue with what was done last season, that we are simply doing framework laws, the content of which will then be applied for in the courts themselves — not here — then we will be in such a stale swamp. Let us hope that we can work together well, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u9	Honorable Speaker! Now that we have listened to these accusations, I am a little puzzled by how it can be that, at the same time as we are accused of turning our coats, the future government is also being accused of making this immigration and integration policy much tougher. These are the exact opposite of the charges. I wonder how these can be done at the same time. As far as these costs of immigration are concerned, it is good that they will be clarified in the coming period: let us see what the real cost for Finland is for immigration. Then some representative, Mr Haglund, has said in the A-Studio that immigration must and must pay, but then on the other hand, he does not think that the costs must be clarified so that there are some wonderful points of view here as well. Some studies have been carried out on the cost of immigration, it is good, and it is good that we will also be doing so in the future to find out these real costs and benefits and disadvantages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u10	President! This is an interesting conversation. For a moment I wondered if it was the right place to speak now or when the government program came to the Chamber for discussion. But Mr Lindtman is right: the Finns of Peru made a turnaround, which is historically fast. I am here to explain to myself how a proposal will be made for the Guinness Book of Records on the world's fastest turn of coats, and I will tell you this and the timetable and the situation in the actual communication debate on the Government's programme. And by whose name will this turnaround speed be put? Is it going to be Soin's or Congressman Tolppin's? I'm sure we'll find out about that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u12	Mr President! First of all, I must say with satisfaction that Mr Tolppanen’s attention — I am not currently there in the government negotiations, but I have received valuable information here when Mr Tolppanen said that there is consensus on a number of issues. And now that I have understood that the economic and tax policies in particular are at the top of the list, it is of course good to know that the negotiations are progressing and that consensus has been found here. But as far as these accusations are concerned, I do not know now whether Mr Vähämäki misunderstood. I didn't blame you for the turn of the coat. I thanked you for the turn of the coat. When, for example, your immigration programme stated that such artificial upswing of multiculturalism should be curbed and the staff cut down, this working group agenda in the government negotiations states that "we encourage the various social actors to increase contacts between the peoples of Finland and immigrants". That too is an excellent line, and it must be said that it seems that the assessment which was made at the beginning of this debate that these immigration and foreign affairs may possibly be dealt with in this Chamber with greater consensus is the right one. And this is not an accusation, but a special thank you to the Finns of Peru, who immediately after the elections have reviewed their positions on these matters. It's a real place to thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u13	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Lindtman for his contribution. More accurate ears will surely hear, also in the Finns, that we offer the hand of cooperation, because these are things that affect all of us Finns. It also includes immigrants who are equally part of Finnish society. But when the time has not been too long, we talk about a few weeks, but we cannot fail to remember this election campaign, which the Finns of Finland, for their part, went through their TV advertisements as well as through their own immigration policy programme. It is very important for us that the line is such in the future that even immigrants who depend on income support are not placed across Finland and that we stop talking about this kind of violation of cohesion, because it does not go any further, on the contrary it is an unfortunate confrontation. In other words, I share Mr Lindtman's statement that thanks are given to the fact that, in the negotiations on the government, we hope that there will be solutions that will improve Finnish society and do not impose this confrontation. Thank you especially for that to the Finns of Finland. We look forward to close cooperation in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u14	Mr President! That is indeed how I understand that there has been quite a consensus on tax matters. Well, that's a long way from the beginning. It was said that the tax rate in this country will not change. That is quite clear Finnish, I think we all agree on that. What's going on inside is different. It happens in different rooms, behind different doors. There are negotiators, there are professional negotiators from different parties and there are good negotiators who are currently negotiating there and will certainly come to some sort of conclusion, because there will be no government in the country if there is no outcome. That's right. But now it really seems good to have a government in this country and to have a government in a hurry so that Parliament can do its job. Immigration and turn around: I think it is a good thing if we have the coat turned around, because this translation is finally going to explain the cost of immigration. Until now, it has been absolutely impossible to determine these costs, and this has been hindered by our legislation. For example, we are not in a position to resolve discretionary social assistance in any way, because our legislation prevents it. We cannot determine who has been paid, what has been paid, when has been paid and why has been paid. Now, if we have agreed jointly — as we are — that these costs should be cleared up, then everyone will be able to see with all their presence what the real costs are and what our labours are sufficient for, what the tax markets of the working people of this country are sufficient, how far can we go? That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Whether we do it or do this, we need to know how much resources there are to spend on it, because it is the old truth that cake cannot be saved and eaten at the same time. It just can't. One of us has to do it, but first we have to decide which one of us is going to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u16	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The session will be adjourned and resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u17	Parliament's plenary session will continue. There is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament to change Article 36 of the Aliens Act into a law. The debate at first reading will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u18	Mr President! Earlier in this Chamber there was a debate on immigration and immigration policy. I find it a shame to stand by as an immigrant-back MP, when immigration is referred to as a cost, once again we are talking about rhetoric such as ourselves, and we are talking about confrontation once again. Instead of stigmatising this debate, I would like more proposals on how we can involve people in this society, how we can improve our integration policies, for example, and how we can build this country together. I think we can do it. I would like to call for a better debate on immigration policy. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u19	Irade the Talman! Det som diskuteras ai i dag är en helt praktisk åtgärd som inte borde förandeda discussion. Det gläder mig att vi verkar har lyckats vända ett blad och gå vidare, och att Halla-ahos manifest kan begravas. Det att ledamot Tolppanen inte drunken till manifestestet är onekligen intressant.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u20	Mr President! At this point, in the section we are dealing with right now, Antti Lindtman was concerned that the basic Finns would have turned the coat. I was going to calm Antti down and say that we have not turned the coat on. We are still in complete agreement on all matters, and if we had been able to decide alone, then the basic Finnish immigration programme would have been taken as such. But for Anti, you know that democracy, when there are three parties, makes those compromises and someone gets someone through and someone else gets someone through, and I am glad that our programmes have been read, and hopefully we will be using them as much as possible later and change the world at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u21	Mr President! I myself was on the administrative committee dealing with the amendment of this one section of the Aliens Act, section 36 of the Aliens Act. Perhaps there has been a misconception here during the debate when you have listened to the speeches, especially from the Social Democrats and the People's Party, that this is now something of a radical change or a major reform. This was a technical correction, a mistake in the legislative work. Of course, we should consider how to avoid such mistakes in the future. It could be said in itself that, on the basis of expert consultations, there is still room for discretion as to how this public health issue will be taken into account if, for example, there is a global epidemic, some global, dangerous new disease is on the move and it requires measures in our foreign administration. However, I would like to see a position taken on this wider immigration policy only after those negotiations with Smolna have been completed and we have a viable political government in that country. Then representatives of the opposition can go and support or criticise the foreign policy of the new government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u22	Mr President! In this debate, when we are discussing this amendment to Article 36 of the Aliens Act, Mr Kurvinen asked us to talk more about immigration policy only after a viable government has been established in this country. But it is perhaps good to talk more broadly about immigration policy in this context too, when the government negotiations on these working groups' memos on immigration, for example, have already been published. In this earlier debate, it was discussed whether a party may have changed its line after the elections in relation to the previous one. I think it is quite honest to say that it was stated in the fundamental Finnish immigration policy programme before the elections that multiculturalism or immigration are not in principle things that Finland should be pursuing. And yet the immigration policy paper of the future government, which the working group actually published, clearly states that immigrants strengthen Finland's innovation capacity and competence by bringing their own culture into Finnish culture, and also very positive towards work-related immigration. In that sense, I now thank the Finns that you have come at least as part of the government to the right line. However, if you, as a party, have not yet changed your line, you will then, I believe, represent the government's line in the future. Saying otherwise may seem to some to be something else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u23	Mr President! There were already discussions in the Chamber about the fact that the government always compromises — of course that is the case. Among other things, Nuiva Vaalimanifesti and the Finnish people's own immigration policy programme were tools for exchange. The True Finns threw Nuiva's Election Manifesto and their own immigration program into the trash bin to get something else to replace them, of course, like this. But this is where Mr Tolppanen used to bang and the Finns have been banging on the suspenders, that something historically new has been achieved: the cost of immigration is calculated. Now there are still some basic Finns in the hall. Could you tell us whether it is only a question of costs, when every immigrant is also a consumer and a taxpayer, whether this revenue side will perhaps be involved in this later on? How can the total cost of immigration be reduced? Who's an immigrant in the first place? Can you open up this calculation base a little bit at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u24	Mr President! That is where Mr Ozan needed such a common perspective in the debate on immigration and an end to repetition. I would like to share with you the good news, ladies and gentlemen, that many immigrants share common opinions and ideas with us Finns, for example, about facilitating micro- and small-scale entrepreneurship. I also know that we have also been voted by many immigrants in elections. I myself am a fresh, new Member of Parliament and I do not feel at all that I have turned the coat at any point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u25	Mr President! Representative Aalto, now needs to correct a little of this interpretation that there is no Nuiva Vaalimanifest in the official election program of the Finns, but it has been a programme of some MPs during the last parliamentary elections that they want to bring. Of course, we had an immigration programme and we still do, and we are pushing for it, and hopefully this time from the government. We have not rejected these objectives, and I think they have very good and well-founded objectives. I'm not going to open them here. However, this debate started with this section of the Aliens Act, which would ignore whether or not the person coming here is suffering from a public health disease. I do not understand why such a matter should not be criticised for abolishing this section, because Parliament's primary task is, of course, to promote the well-being and interests of Finland and Finns and to consider carefully what the money is spent on. That is what we are sitting here for, and, in this case, of course, we would not want to increase the cost. For example, Mr Adlercreutz mentioned that undocumented medical care, which was knocked out during the last term of government, should definitely be re-examined and put into effect the law so that the paperless too can have a full range of health care. There is no justification for this. This debate took place during the last term of government. Anyone who is seriously ill in Finland or who is in an accident, whether or not they have papers, is treated. In Finland, no one is left on the street to die. But the difference is whether we can afford to deal with everyone here who pretends to be illegal by, for example, the fact that the visa expires and comes across the border here, and then immediately all the health care that the Finnish citizen receives. That is the essence of the debate, whether we can afford and to what extent it makes sense to use our health resources for the benefit of all who come from the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u26	Mr President! I would like to make a brief comment to Mr Räsänen that it was not the intention of the previous legislative work to change the law, it was not the intention to change the legal situation, it was the way in which this matter is dealt with. A mistake has been made, and that error was corrected. The legal situation has not been changed now, and it was never meant to be changed before. This is just to clear things up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u27	Mr President! I would say to Mr Huhtasaari that it is sad that you are still pursuing your immigration programme, which, according to experts, is unconstitutional. This is an entirely independent view. It's sad that you still want to drive it forward. One A4 was published by the Government Confessor, and it contained many round points. Let us see what this immigration policy programme as a whole is going to contain in concrete terms in the future. Then I will look at this matter in even more detail. But I find it sad that you are running a programme that is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u28	Mr President! I will answer Mr Niiko's questions about that undocumented health care. Let's stick to that, and Niko's wish will come true. First of all, no one has prevented criticism. That's exactly why we're here. That is good of you to criticise, but no one has prevented it. Secondly, if we consider that we have a person who needs a little care, is it not cost-saving if he is properly treated in the early stages, unlike letting the problems drag on? It is always much more expensive and complicated, and it also takes more money. In any case, if a person is already here, is it not better to save money, support public health work and not have higher costs at all? Is it not precisely cost-saving, literally, for undocumented health care?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u29	Mr President! This amendment to Article 36 of the Aliens Act is of a technical nature, as has been said here, but at least I wanted to hear this second part of the debate, because this issue is extremely important in relation to foreign policy and immigration. It is a truly large part of the success of our society and also of keeping together the nation, and how foreigners are accepted, how they are established in Finland and how they feel welcome here and as equal citizens of society is of great importance in principle. It has been ten years of wringing hands on this, and I think that this will be the first case of a foreign law in a ten-year period that can be dealt with unanimously, and I think that is a great thing. When Mr Kurvinen said that we must not yet praise the government when it is not sure whether it will be born, and then we must only take a position when the whole programme is known, then I would say, Mr Kurvinen, with this previous experience that these praises from the government are so rare that they are always worth receiving. I believe that the recognition of the opposition to government negotiators does not come very often in this Chamber to hear or experience, so that it is worth enjoying this with all the money. We obviously already have a very important new agreement on how immigration policy is to be implemented. It is not perfect, and there will certainly be some gaps, and there will certainly be shortcomings, and there may be some disagreements. I noticed that there is perhaps still a difference of opinion as to what this refugee policy means, because I think that is what the text says about maintaining the refugee quota at least at the level of the last few years. And now that the Facebook world is following, I have time to see that there seemed to be two different interpretations: is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u30	Mr President! First of all, to Heinäluoma, I would also like to explain to the people of Finland that it is not surprising, of course, that this amendment to the law on foreigners goes unanimously, because this does not really change the status quo, as the representative of the centre, Kurvinen, said. I would also like to say, as a fundamental Finn, that we respect human rights, of course, within the framework of the Finnish system, we must guarantee them equally for all. This amendment to the foreign law, which is now before us — indeed because there has been a minor mistake in the past, a small mistake in that writing process — and the adoption of this and keeping this matter in the law is quite understandable, because, on a practical level, this means that if someone who has already received his first residence permit here applied for a permit extension and had somehow fallen ill in the meantime, then at least I am not, even though I am an immigration-critical person and I am looking at these very critically, one can say that at that point someone's residence permit should be refused because of this illness. So the Finns also believe that there has indeed been a legislative error of this kind and that is why this proposal should be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u31	Mr President! It is interesting that the first sessions have begun with this theme. This is now the third, or the fourth, sitting on immigration and also on undocumented persons. I hope this does not become such a picture that the Finns are against all immigration, which of course we are not. We understand that a distinction must be made, for example, in the case of social immigration and in the case of work-related immigration. However, less attention has been paid to the fact that we certainly have more problems with the fact that this free movement of Europe has led to the fact that when the labour force moves to Finland, jobs are very easily lost from Finland and Finns in the fact that wage levels can be trampled on even by workers from the Baltic countries. This is the big thing we should pay attention to if we want to hold on to Finnish jobs in the future. But it is already a much more difficult nut to chew when we are one EU family. But, Mr President, as far as this refugee policy is concerned, Finland already bears an extremely large share of it. If we have 1,050 refugees per year, which we have now taken, or 750, between that, then it is an extremely large number relative to the population. Not many countries can do this. So we're doing our part well. In this economic situation, however, the Finns do not want this humanitarian refugee policy to continue. In that sense, we would have liked to see some corrections and amendments, perhaps even in the government. I personally believe that the people in need must of course be helped, but at the same time we must recognise that we cannot eliminate world poverty by taking in 1000 or 10,000 lucky people across the Mediterranean and saying that we have now done our part. Each of us says that this is too little or too much, no matter what the amount. In Sweden, we see what has led to this immigration policy and, unfortunately, it has not succeeded in all its aspects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u32	Mr President! For the information of Heinäluoma, Finns want to make an effective immigration policy and a sensible immigration policy. I am sure the Heinäluoto himself understands that this integration has not succeeded in the desired way in any European country, and that is what we are concerned about and we have courageously taken a stand on it, and we want to be involved in this. From Ozan I would like to ask that if you mean that the Finns of Finland have talked about the dislocation of immigrants, if this was the case, then, for example, in Britain, Germany and Austria, it is the case that if the visitor does not go to the designated place, he will lose some of his social benefits. There is also a need to discuss the issue of decentralisation that would be a sensible option. Do you, Ozan, think that Britain is doing the wrong thing here?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u33	I would point out that it is customary in this Chamber for us to call each other names.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u34	Mr President! I will ask Mr Niiko again to make sure that you said that humanitarian immigration might have to be reduced, because there is no money for everything. Does this mean that the Finns of Peru have also changed their line of action in that development cooperation funds need to be substantially increased in order to help people there, among other things, in their countries of origin?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u35	Mr President! These one-liners, throws, and they are often repeated in the debate on immigration policy. Sometimes I get the feeling that no one knows if they are true, and sometimes some parties keep saying these things. A comment has just come from Mr Huhtasaari that integration has not been successful. Finland has received two representatives from an immigrant background during this period. It's a really beautiful thing and so on. In fact, I would like to know how integration has not been successful. I want a little bit of concrete on this one. To Representative Niiko, you said that not all the poor people in the world can be helped. Well, that is true now, but Finland should do everything in its power to help people. We cannot stand by while others suffer. The EU says it is a community of values. We're part of this community of values. A community of values is solidarity, and when we talk about having Western values, there is also solidarity in Western values. In a way, I would like to call for further reflection on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u36	Mr President! Representative Aalto called for the logic of basic Finnish development aid funds. If we want to cut immigration considerably, then why do we want to cut the amount of development aid – that is probably what you meant in your question. Well, there's a very easy answer to this. We support the use of Kepa's EUR 107 million development budget, and it reads in our shadow budgets, has been reading for many years because it is transparent, efficient and very good, profitable Finnish work, with which we can alleviate anxiety and pain. In addition, the Finns of Finland are in favour of help related to their shadow budgets and other crisis management and other sudden disasters of this kind. We are human in the same way as everyone else. We want to help these people. What we do not want to do again is, for example, to give Afghanistan bilateral money — I think some EUR 8 million is being given this year, and last year money was given automatically. Bilateral development aid money we give around 300 million per year, as I recall, and a very large part of that money is going down the well in Kankkula. In Afghanistan, banks were caught when $900 million was stolen there in 2010, and only a fraction of it was recovered, even though they promised to do everything they could. And yet, Finland continues to support such countries with direct cash. There are Palestine, there are many other countries. When we know where the money has been spent, we want to stop using this reckless so-called development aid money altogether, and instead we want to encourage Finnish development aid organisations who genuinely spend that money on what it is meant to be. If we do not dare to deal with such abuses even in this Parliament, the credibility of development aid work will be lost. After all, it is the party itself's aim to make development aid work voluntary. This is the long line we've got.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u37	Mr President! After Mr Zyskowicz and I have changed seats, we must now enjoy the whole money for this opportunity to speak after four years' break, and that is why I am going to spend some time in this final debate. After Mr Niikko and other representatives of the Finns Party have spoken about what the Finns think or do, it is really no longer a question of that now, but a common line has been agreed on for the government, and the Finns, as the Finnish Government Party, will certainly defend this common line of government. This is the line that has now been announced that I want to support and acknowledge. It is a reasonably sensible line, not perfect, but reasonably reasonable, and you can give reputations for it both here and abroad. Unquestionably, this outcome, which has been announced, has removed much of the concern that has been associated with the creation of this very government base. When Mr Niikko now said that the Finns of Peru want to reduce humanitarian immigration, there was no such point in this published text. So you have promised to continue the refugee quotas at least at the current level. Then it's open whether it's 750 or it's a little over a thousand, and I'm sure we'll find out when we get a step further. In other words, this is going in a good direction, and I think this shows that the Finnish way of working on the composition of the government is right, that is, when people give support, then the party is given the opportunity through government negotiations and participation in the government to influence matters. That is how this society develops and also changes and lives, but what is important is that it seems that now, in the case of ten years of massive twists, the government and the opposition will be very close to each other:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u38	Mr President! Congressman Niikko spoke of development aid. I do not know what specific cases he referred to, but development aid must be constantly developed, of course. If we want support for poor countries and people, then we must have a development policy that benefits these people. Fair trade policy, good development policy, these are issues to which attention should be paid. I just don't understand from this debate how volunteering is supposed to guarantee that money goes automatically to the right places. So, in a way, your development proposal is not in any way a solution to the problems. I would say it would be worth more concrete action to come here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u39	Mr President! It is in everyone's interest that any abuse in any policy area should always be tackled. If development cooperation is to be more effective, more effective, this voluntary approach will result in long-term, systematic work suffering. Let's go towards projects like this, and that's where the money doesn't focus in the best way possible, not in the best way to achieve results. And one, which is also good to remember when it comes to volunteering: what other policy areas — perhaps the Defence Forces? — to be financed on a voluntary basis, which other policy areas? And such a billion euros for development cooperation on a voluntary basis: Although large support concerts were carried out, even the children’s hospital did not receive the 30 million euros. How likely is it to bring together such a billion euros in development cooperation, if not even through Cheek to the children's hospital, even through large support concerts, a certain amount of money?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u40	Mr President! I would respond to Mr Yanar when you asked where this failure to integrate humanitarian immigration is reflected: it is reflected in unemployment statistics and crime statistics. I would like to remind everyone here that: Switzerland succeeds in being a supporter of Western values, even though it does not currently accept any quota refugees. There are so many refugees in the world, and the fact that they are being taken — some lucky people get to — does not change the world’s situation. If we really wanted to do a lot of good, with the same money that we're taking a quota refugee here, we'd help a lot more on the spot. I am in favour of voluntary donations and I am encouraging all representatives to make voluntary donations here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u41	Thank you, President, for the floor again. Congressman Wave, you asked me a question. Could I give this answer in this way: the core task of the Finnish state is something other than development aid, is it not? The nuclear activity of the Finnish state is defence. The core activities of the Finnish state are care for health care and education and many other matters, especially for those who are Finnish citizens and who live in Finland. It will then be a matter of making borderlines, who will have the economic good that we share here. Development cooperation is not a central government activity. It is an act of goodwill, and when we talk about the use of development funds, if we have EUR 1100 million, of which only EUR 100 million are spent through our own development aid organisations, through Kepa, then I do not understand the policy of keeping a thousand million eyes closed and hope that good things will happen in the United Nations through that money, even though we know that a huge amount of money is going into the administration, or that good things will happen in bilateral, inter-state matters when we close our eyes and stuff money. We have been doing this for decades, and now we have wanted to change this development, that we must genuinely take responsibility for how that money is spent. This is the a and o. That is why we had to put forward very radical measures because the so-called old parties have not heard our voice. We have argued that we should then make the whole thing voluntary, since you do not want to change this line. I think that is an excellent option. Then pick up the money from a Cheek concert if the line doesn't change. Mr President! Even to Mrs Heinäluoma that, of course, the Finnish people in the government will have to push for that common line, whether it is immigration or even euro policy. But let me remind you that we have not yet agreed anything at all. Details are always agreed on a case-by-case basis. The big lines have been set up, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u42	Mr President! There is another comment that I would like to comment on. Congressman Niikko said they're gonna throw the money in there with their eyes closed. This really, really shows great ignorance. We have a lot of criteria when it comes to development cooperation. I encourage you to get to know them, you may be surprised how accurate those criteria really are. And the Finnish State will do everything in its power to monitor that the money ends up in the right addresses. I want some empathy in this room. Then the basic Finns talk about not wanting to take people but being able to help people on the spot, of course, is not... Well, even in this Chamber, it turns out to be a bit of a diversion tactic when you want voluntary development aid. I would like to see a clearer line. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u43	Mr President! I would just like to say that I myself have worked very much with Kepa, among others. When working with Kepa, you can ask Mr Niikko, even if very detailed evaluation reports are available and can be consulted. Try to get one expert who is doing his life’s work, expert work, to prove that most of the development cooperation money is being thrown into the wind. That is simply not true. It's all nonsense populism. I understand that this kind of intimidation is made, but when you get to know it, you will notice the reality of it. I also say that it is also good for the Finns of Peru to remember that when all the countries of the world do their part, we can together make big things happen. I looked at the statistics again: In 1990, 40% of the world’s people were extremely poor. In 2010, there were only 20% of them, although the world's population has grown significantly. If more and more countries begin to withdraw from joint commitment, everything will collapse. Finland is not alone a world social welfare office, but in cooperation. It's kind of like a collection that's collected in a church: everyone puts their own coin in there according to their own ability to pay, and that's how we can do something together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u44	Mr President! To representatives Aalto and Yanar, I would like to tell you that when I read the study of developing countries as a major in political science, as far as your comments on the effectiveness of our Finnish development cooperation are concerned, these correct assessments are certainly not so flattering as they have been made about the effectiveness of the project. It has received a great deal of criticism. Of course, there have been successful projects and so on. If one considers why the Paris Declaration 2005 and Accra's operational programme have been carried out, then they have focused precisely on making aid more effective. This is not an invention by the Finns of Peru, to try to get the help that it really belongs to. I myself have worked in refugee camps. I have worked in Africa in international crisis management missions and I have seen in practice the abuses and those who really need help. They are many times those who are not in refugee camps, for example, where choices are made as quota refugees. It is a trade-off that we too have identified — that the Finns, as then UN police commissioner, have, by chance, gone somewhere far from being known and seen people there — that there too the so-called strongest law exists and, unfortunately, these are not necessarily the people who will then be safe in the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u45	Mr President! Congressman Aalto, I'd be happy to put a coin in the church too. I know that money goes for a good cause, and it usually has a purpose. I'd love to, and I do it on a regular basis. But it is quite different to talk about you putting a coin into the Afghan administration's account or into the Palestinian administration's account, and it is the same kind of transparent money as this church collection. They're two different things. The difference is like night and day. As far as Kepaan is concerned, which I myself have just spoken of and what I have defended very much — that is to say, these development aid organisations that operate in Finland, which receive it about 107 million a year — and the National Audit Office has given a very good recognition to those organisations that work there, such as Fida International, for example, has received good grades for the fact that the money is efficient, it is transparent and it promotes Finnishism in every way when Finns work, and it promotes peace and many other things. I am in favour of this; this is a very good policy, that we are working with the Finns to channel the money and the majority of the work, if at all possible, in cooperation with those countries. But let us go, for example, to this cooperation on development aid, as we say, even though the European Union, which spends EUR 300 million every year, gives direct money to the Palestinian Authority, gives money there mainly — and Finland, too, I think, gives 8.6 million a year. What happened the last time there was a crisis? It turned out that they have spent hundreds of millions building tunnels underground. All the concrete went there, they didn't go to the schools, they didn't go to the hospitals, they went to the projects of the Hamas terrorist organization, which the public couldn't influence. That is the point: we cannot use the money to give the help we would like to those crying mothers and children. And that is what we, too, the Finns, want to help them, but we do not want to give money there so that it goes to the wind if that is what we can say.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u46	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is also academic research in developing country research. I myself have done cum laude studies on the subject at the University of Helsinki, and the most fun experiences, such as what has been remembered, is the history of development aid, from where we started. Originally, Finland took some Valtra tractors to that Horn of Africa, and then it was forgotten, damn it, to teach how to refuel them and how to service them, and they were scrapped there. From this we have come a long way to the present situation. Of course, there is still evaluation and reports are made on these issues, constantly monitoring very closely how the euro gets there, and all the mishaps, all the problems found in this area will be addressed. And just as it has come from the Valtra eras, the same way will also go forward in time, and all defects will be addressed. But if, for example, Finnish social security is misused in Finland, is it a reason to abolish social security for the whole of Finland? Or, if there are any shortcomings in development cooperation, is that the reason why development cooperation as a whole should be abolished? No, we have to be able to correct those flaws and move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-22-ps-7.u47	Mr President! Very good speech from Mrs Aalto. Congressman Grasse spoke of real help seekers. When we think about refugee camps — he referred to refugee camps — there are the real need for help. Finland chooses from there through the quota refugee system, in cooperation with the UN, people who genuinely need help, but on the other hand, the Finns of Peru want to reduce the arrival of these people in Finland. I do not know what the reason is, but at the same time we are trying to talk here about those who need help. Again the contradiction, again the comment that raises questions. - Thank you.
