ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Paavo Arhinmäki and 56 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government on employment policy VK 4/2015 vp. I shall now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question and ask the representatives to take their place to listen to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate, Mrs Lapintie, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u3	Madam Speaker! There is a proposal from the Council of Presidents to amend the Statute for Parliament's officials and the Statute of the Office, and the committee proposes that these be adopted as amended, and the committee also makes a statement. I would now like to present the committee's report by raising the arguments and comments of a few specific amendments. First of all, the power to organise Parliament's administration: According to the Constitution, the Council of Presidents may take the initiative to legislate on Parliament's civil servants and its rules of procedure, and this is appropriate and justified because it is appropriate that the preparation of the laws governing the organisation of the Parliament should take place as a general rule in Parliament and not in the Board of Directors. The Constitution gives Parliament the power to decide on internal legislative acts, i.e. by means of a plenary session. The Assembly may not delegate to it the powers conferred on it by the Constitution for the adoption of internal standards, for example in the Rules of Procedure or in the Statute. This plenary session and the committee's preparatory work are particularly important in terms of transparency and due diligence in the preparation of the debate. Secondly, there are a few words about labour law. It is now proposed to amend the provision of the Civil Service Act in such a way that Parliament's Office must ensure that Parliament is able to carry out its tasks as a state body, despite the measures taken to combat the labour market. If a collective action significantly impedes or impedes the functioning of Parliament, the parties shall, after having received the information, take the necessary measures to remove the obstacle. The proposal does not therefore contain a ban on collective action. This obligation to negotiate, which I have outlined above: it is done on the basis of a provision on the mediation of labour disputes, and this provision seeks in particular to highlight the obligation on the parties to step up measures to obtain a negotiated solution in order to safeguard the capacity of Parliament to carry out its duties as the supreme state body, despite collective action. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of a ban on the appointment of a post or a post. According to a proposal from the Council of Presidents, Parliament's Civil Service Act is amended to allow an official to appeal to the employer's decision concerning him or her by appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. At the same time, however, it is proposed that a ban be imposed on the appointment of a post or a post, on discretionary leave or on appointment of a post. According to the reasoning, the provisions are factually equivalent to those of the State Civil Service Act. In 2010 and 2011, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinions on the amendment of the Civil Service Act that this ban on appeal is problematic. According to Article 21(1) of the Constitution, everyone has the right to have a decision on his or her rights and obligations examined by a court or other independent judicial body. The most significant restriction on the right of appeal is the prohibition of an appeal against the appointment of a post or a post. In its statements on the above-mentioned years, the committee has stated that the nomination decisions involve a measure of reflection which is governed and limited by legislation. However, the Nomination Decision does not differ by nature from other administrative decisions in such a way that the right of appeal cannot be extended. The appointment decision is of great importance to the legal status of the official, which is in favour of the right of appeal. During the years mentioned above, the committee proposed in these opinions that the Administrative Committee should consider extending the right of appeal to the appointment of a post and a post. However, this did not happen. Now, in the context of these legislative amendments, the Constitutional Committee has re-examined the matter and states that the right of appeal should be extended to cover decisions on appointment to office, so that, in these circumstances too, the constitutional right to a decision on its rights and obligations can also be guaranteed for the Court of Justice to be assessed. Attorney General Jaakko Jonkka has also made a proposal to the Ministry of Finance for the right to appeal to state appointments last spring. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the possibility of appeal to the court for a decision on appointment would be justified in terms of the legal protection of applicants. It would also strengthen public confidence in the appropriateness of appointments and thus support the appreciation of public authority in the eyes of the public. On the basis of the above, the committee makes a statement and has in this context considered it justified that the legislation of civil servants should be amended as a whole so that, in the case of all State posts and official relations, the ban on appeal should be lifted simultaneously. The Government should urgently prepare a proposal to amend the State Civil Service Act so as to lift the appeal ban. Of course, proposals for amendments to Parliament's Civil Service Act and other necessary laws should also be prepared in the same context. As regards the powers of appointment, four other elements of this amendment are raised in Article 10 of the Civil Service Act. The committee proposes that the Staff Committee appoints the posts of the Parliamentary Office referred to in Article 4(2), to be specified in the State Budget, as well as other posts of the Parliamentary Office which are eligible for a higher university degree. The Secretary-General now appoints some of these posts, so this proposal means that the appointment authority of the Secretary-General is to some extent delegated to the Staff Committee. Fifthly, I would like to mention the implementation of the organisational reform of the parliamentary administrative department. At its December 2014 meeting, the Parliamentary Staff Committee has already decided to make these changes as from 1 January 2015 regarding the activities of the Administrative Department, and the committee therefore concludes that the organisational reform of the Administrative Department has already been put in place in the Parliamentary Administrative Department on 1 January 2015 and that the amendments to the Statute of the Parliamentary Office are only now under discussion. The procedure may be considered to have placed both the committee and the whole Parliament in the light of the facts that have happened and thereby weakened the ability of the constitutional decision-making bodies to freely weigh the need and appropriateness of the proposed changes. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that such a procedure cannot be considered appropriate or acceptable. Finally, I would like to introduce an amendment to the Statute concerning the eligibility requirement of the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General and the Legislative Director. Currently, a higher degree in law or other appropriate higher education degree is required. The committee stresses the role of the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General and the Legislative Director in advising the President when he presides over the plenary session and oversees compliance with the Constitution and stresses the importance of the knowledge of the Constitution and of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and of the legal knowledge and skills necessary for the interpretation and application of this role. For this reason, the committee considers it important that the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General and the Legislative Director have completed a higher university degree in law. It is therefore proposed that the words "other higher education" be deleted. In other words, the committee is presenting a proposal for a resolution on this abolition of the appointment ban and, with these amendments, for adoption of the draft law and also this Statute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u4	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs rightly points out that Parliament must also comply with the laws. As early as January this year, the Administrative Department's organisational reform has already been introduced in the Parliamentary Administrative Department, and the amendments to the Statute of the Parliament's Office have only been discussed by the Constitutional Committee in November. The procedure may be considered to have undermined the ability of the constitutional decision-making body to weigh the necessity and appropriateness of the proposed amendments. Such a procedure cannot be considered appropriate or acceptable. Although there must have been a need for reform, why did this change take place before the Constitutional Committee was assessed? Mr President! In December last year, therefore, the Assembly had discussed the work of the Administrative Department on the basis of a presentation by the Parliamentary Administrative Director and decided, from January of this year, to confirm the reform of the Administrative Department's activities, which had been prepared by the Council of Presidents for the last term. Mr President! According to Article 118 of the Constitution, the official is responsible for the legality of his duties and the rapporteur is responsible for what was decided on his presentation. This issue has therefore already been presented with civil servant responsibility in November last year and has already been introduced in January of this year, even though this PeV opinion was only now requested in November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u5	Madam President! Mrs Louhelainen was actually speaking on my behalf, but I would particularly like to emphasise it, as was pointed out in that speech, that Parliament, especially in its own work, should strictly observe the law. Of course, it is very strange that matters which will then be brought into due process will be introduced under the responsibility of the office. I fully agree with the representative. To the speech of the Louhean, which was very important. We should all remember in this action that we are exemplary. Since we require citizens to comply with the law, we must be particularly careful about that activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u6	Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its report rightly raises these issues, which have already been heard and also those raised by the chairman of the committee. There are a couple of things I'd like to make my own point. Firstly, this right of initiative of the Council of Presidents to reform the law on Parliament's officials is a very right and timely initiative. A few changes have been made to this Civil Service Act already in 2003 over the last 12 years, and now this law on civil servants is being brought up to date today, and rightly so, when Parliament decides on matters, those decisions must be made so that the Civil Service Act and then this statute on civil servants are up to date. Since Parliament itself legislates, it is quite reasonable and right that Parliament's activities should be based on the law-level decisions taken by Parliament in the Grand Chamber. In accordance with this provision of the Constitution, when provisions are made for citizens, it must be clearly recorded in the law so that the legal protection of people is preserved. Then this precise definition of the right to strike is also important for international agreements, so that we have these matters decided by Parliament and are in the same line as the Finnish Constitution requires for other legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u7	Mr President! The Council of Presidents has done a good job of reforming the Statute of the Parliamentary Office and the Law on Parliamentary Officials. When you read through the proposal carefully, you will notice that the idea behind it is clearly to try to modernise Parliament’s administration and different practices according to time requirements. Things are going faster when the regulations are somewhat more general, as this revised statute of the Office will be. As detailed regulation as it has been in the past is no longer necessary, but a more general provision can act in a smoother and faster way. This reform, to which the chairman of the committee has already referred, concerning this restriction of the right to strike and the provisions relating to industrial action, is also part of the modernisation process. We no longer provide for a ban on industrial disputes for some civil servants, but create a general framework under which the parliamentary system must operate in all circumstances through negotiated procedures, and so on. This too is part of such modernisation. Then, of course, from the point of view of Parliament, it might be convenient to have these possibilities of appeal for appointments, but this is a point in which the committee has then considered that safeguarding fundamental rights is still so important that such a right of appeal should be brought there. Even if it may slow down some processes and, for Parliament, in a certain way, it would complicate them, it is still a question of the fundamental rights of individuals, which must be safeguarded. Perhaps a somewhat rigid provision of the same kind is the one added by the committee to these qualifications, that is to say, the Secretary-General is required to have the qualifications of a higher university degree in law in order to guarantee the level of work and preparation here in Parliament. Although it may be felt that even such a regulation is less operational, it does in a certain way guarantee the quality of its operation. In other words, this is a question of modernisation, but there has been an attempt in committee to guarantee legal certainty and quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u8	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 12/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u9	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion will be initiated by Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the Legal Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u10	Mr President! The Government’s proposal proposes and proposes to repeal the legislation adopted in June 2015 which extended the possibility of using the fine’s conversion penalty. It must be noted immediately that these laws adopted in June are not yet in force. The laws shall enter into force on the same day as the law imposing the fine and the fine, the entry into force of which shall be governed by law. According to current data, it would not be earlier than the end of 2016, i.e. more than one year at the earliest. To begin with, I would like to say what the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights says in its report that, although this government proposal is now being adopted and that old legislation is being rejected, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights requires the preparation of new legislation — working groups have already been put together at the Ministry of Justice — and the preparation of new legislation to come into force by the end of 2016 at the latest. In other words, nothing has been lost. The report by the Legal Affairs Committee states that the fines that the Court has condemned can now be converted into imprisonment, as should be the case, but the problem is that the fines imposed in the penal procedure cannot be. In practice, most penalties are imposed by the police. The non-transformation of fines imposed under the penalty order procedure has been considered problematic by the needy persons who repeatedly commit fines. In such cases a person can virtually remain unpunished, and the worst problem is that such things, said, honest entrepreneurs, honest traders, are left without justice, a judicial decision. At the same time, it undermines the credibility of the criminal justice system, its lawfulness and also its belief in our judicial system when the offender is left unpunished. At its worst, before the victim of the crime, he tells me that you can't help me, and at its worst he'll tear up that officer's sentence. Of course, this cannot be the case. The purpose of this proposal, which is now to be repealed, was to reduce the sharp distinction between fines imposed in criminal and judicial proceedings, thereby contributing to the credibility of the criminal justice system and to compliance with law and prohibitions. This was set aside in the spending limits decision for EUR 12,4 million from the beginning of 2018. One challenge here was precisely the cost of this system in this challenging economic situation. Another challenge with regard to this preciousness was that this system, which would have been put into effect, would have been very bureaucratic, very difficult and therefore very expensive, and that cannot be the case. It would also have been partially ineffective in terms of sanctioning systems. Now, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in its report is expressing hope for the police at this stage. Once the police have issued new fines in 2014, the Legal Affairs Committee hopes that the police will review them even further if there is room for tightening up. Then the Legal Affairs Committee requires... This is on the basis of a statement from the previous Parliament that "the Government is required to investigate without delay the possibilities of reducing and simplifying the procedure for the conversion of the fine and the steps leading up to it, and I will prepare the necessary proposals to be submitted to Parliament at the same time as the draft law on the enforcement of the fine and the law on the imposition of the fine". The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights continues to stress this importance of the reform work and is pressing for this project to be prepared, and the Committee on Legal Affairs feels that the roles of the various authorities and the necessary work should also be considered without prejudice, as well as sanctions. This means, as I said at the outset, that in no case has the matter of the conversion of the fine been buried, but in the coming year a new law will have to be introduced and its law will have to be lighter, less bureaucratic, less costly and the sanctions will have to be better than at present. A project has already been set up at the Ministry of Justice, and I am aware that two working groups are about to begin their work. Mr President! Against this background, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights states: 'In view of the economic reasons behind the government's proposal, as well as the fact that the legislation referred to therein has not yet entered into force and that the committee is calling for the continuation of the reform work relating to the conversion of the fine, the committee supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal.'
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u11	Madam President! The fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights agrees with the government's proposal does not mean that the objectives of the conversion of the fine were somehow bad — quite the contrary. The committee's report sends a strong signal to both the police and the prosecutor that repeated infringements must be tackled. Last spring, Parliament approved a change in the law proposed by the government, according to which the police may not impose a new fine if the offender has been fined for at least three similar acts during the previous year, but in that case the matter will be referred to the District Court. If the fine imposed by the District Court is not recovered, it can be converted into imprisonment. The Government's proposal was based on a statement adopted in 2008 on the basis of the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Laws that the use of the penal procedure is restricted in situations where the author has shown disregard for the law's prohibitions and orders. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs is concerned about the impact of the repeal of the legislation referred to in the proposal on the credibility of the criminal system, the lawfulness and the victims of fines, such as entrepreneurs and the trade sector. In this respect, the fines issued by the police in autumn 2014 are particularly relevant since they take into account situations in which a person repeatedly commits similar offences. According to the new guidance, "if a person has committed at least six acts which have led to punishment during the year before the act, and acts as a whole show disregard for the prohibitions and orders of the law..." This proposal, which has now been repealed, has been more specific so that three penalties would be sufficient to justify the intervention of the police. The aim of this police instruction is therefore the same as that of the legislation that has now been proposed to be repealed. The difference is that police guidance is not legally binding and the upper limit for the use of the penalty procedure is six offences in one year. Although the guidance does not allow the police any discretion on a situation-by-case basis not to deal with a fine in the context of a penalty procedure in a situation where that ceiling is not met, the committee considers the ceiling to be relatively high. The committee therefore considers it important that the ceiling used in the guidelines be brought closer to the legislation now being repealed. Madam President! The committee had a very careful debate on this, considering its position on the way in which the law which is now being repealed could be recorded in the report, as if by a lighter procedure, as guidance, which I think was well described by the chairman of the committee. And we believe that, when the police and the judiciary read this committee's report carefully, they will understand the spirit of the report which is written down here, that, although this law, which has now been decided for economic reasons in the last period, is being withdrawn, this issue must be tackled, and the police will hopefully also clarify their own instructions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u12	Madam President! I would like to thank the Legal Committee and its chairman, Mr Tolvanen, for having done well here. In other words, it should now be borne in mind that, even if the proposed legislation on the conversion of the fine is repealed, this preparatory action will begin so that we can achieve the same result during the time when the legislation now being repealed was to enter into force. However, it should be remembered that this proposal, which is now planned, would have cost more than EUR 12 million, but at the same time these professional shopkeepers, who are not held responsible for their actions and who are not penalised by it at all, are causing an annual fall of some EUR 0.5 billion, EUR 500 million, for our trade. In other words, for society, these professional shoplifters and small thefts are a very big drop. And who's gonna pay for it? It's paid for by the customers in the store who pass through the cashier and pay for it. This is kind of how it spins. That is why we need to get some kind of rat and a fine to be converted into this way, how the Committee on Legal Affairs is now proposing that we have a situation where, despite the level of income, all people will be punished for the crime committed. This is unreasonable that shops, merchants and honest customers of the store now bear all the responsibility and these thieves go by with a smile.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u13	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Tolvanen, for his excellent contribution and for the clarification of the situation. In this case of the conversion of the fine, the people in the commercial sector, with whom there are many, have been in active contact, I believe, particularly with us MPs with police background. In the trade sector, the situation, with its constant shoplifting, is considered to be very worrying and unsafe in some places. I quote from the Executive Board of one of the chains: "To the emotional suffering that is being faced in shops every day, there is no price tag." Mr President! In the current economic situation, we are reducing the cost to society if the conversion penalty were to be a real threat of intimidation and contribute to preventing, for example, these shopliftings, which affect the trade sector to the value of hundreds of thousands of euros each year. The VAT not available to the State alone is EUR 100 million. It should also be noted that ordinary people, the people, as consumers suffer because the loss is reflected in higher commodity prices. Mr President! The reform, which would be an extended possibility for the use of the fine’s conversion penalty, cannot be implemented without an appropriation. The decision to remove the budget from the budgetary plan is contrary to the general public's sense of law, as the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is concerned about the impact of the repeal of the legislation referred to in the proposal on the credibility of the criminal justice system, on the lawfulness and on the victims of fines, such as entrepreneurs and the trade sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u14	Madam President! Of course, it does not give a very convincing picture of the legislative work of rowing and blanketing around this issue. While Tuija Brax was the Minister of Justice under the Vanhanen 2nd Government, this law was brought in, and the general fear was that this would lead to more indifference and less respect for the law. This really has happened. And it was very welcome to have this restored. It is very regrettable that we are now in this situation in the name of savings. It is certainly not a question of the mentality of the poor and discipline. Such persons in many ways cause many kinds of trouble because of their lack of law - abidingness and indifference. Surely it would be good for them themselves to have such increased respect for the law, and in that sense different measures are needed. It is good that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been serious and expresses its concern: that this bill that has now been tabled is not the last word, but that measures are actually being taken to simplify procedures and procedures in order to achieve this important objective in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u15	Madam President! This matter of the conversion of the fine is actually a rather sad part of Finnish legislation. When this law on the conversion of the fine was adopted at the time, the potential risks involved were known. In other words, the respect for the law faded and the general attitude towards the law experienced a considerable sale when it created the possibility that a citizen could commit a crime and then the penalty would be virtually nothing. I know of cases where, for example, a person had taken intoxicating beverages from a local monopoly movement and then marched out of the store and showed the seller that he was paying nothing, and soon the police had, of course, gone to arrest the guy. After receiving the ticket, the person concerned had torn up that note and said that this would not be a punishment, so that what he could do about it. In the meantime, the drinks were lost somewhere. This is just an example of how the law works against itself. It is quite right that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has intervened firmly in this matter. This conversion of the fine must be enforced and, by that means, as a clear and unambiguous law, that it actually restores respect for the law, that when a person commits a crime, he will immediately be punished for it, and then, if he continues along this same path, the fine will be converted into a prison sentence, which will actually take effect this penalty for the offence, that respect for the law in this country will return to the level at which it should be. Of course, we must remember that it is also a question of legal protection for citizens. Every Finnish citizen has the right to a safe home environment in which he lives, and in such a way that the law guarantees him the right to a safe life and that the law does not allow some people to deviate from it without the result.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u16	Madam President! It is easy to agree with many of the speeches that have been made here. However, as a comfort to me, this can be influenced by the plaintiff, i.e. the penal procedure cannot be continued unless the plaintiff agrees to do so. In that sense, this is still possible, but it would certainly be good if we had clear, easy procedures. One thing that I drew attention to here: I think it was very good that the Committee on Legal Affairs had considered that these conversion prisoners are often marginalised and young people with substance abuse problems and that they should be treated with social and health services. In the summer, I was also visiting a fine transformer at the Ridasjärvi substance abuse center, who said that this was a rescue for him, that he had to undergo a fine change: he got substance abuse rehabilitation faster. This should not be the case if the conversion of the fine is a place of substance abuse rehabilitation. It has been stated in this opinion by the Committee on Legal Affairs that it is hoped that this will continue to be investigated and sought ways of dealing with substance abuse problems, because in many cases these minor offences and offences are also the result of these problems of substance abuse and mental health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u17	Madam President! It was very nice to hear from Mr Tolvanen that this proposal and the law that will eventually come into force are not a permanent state, but a change is possible. Crimes must be punished, and punishment must be fair. At the moment, it hasn't been. As I said at the previous reading, I am all the way along to adopt this bill and only because I hope for a new bill as soon as possible. In particular, in the area of trade, as has already been said here by the representatives, this proposal is not considered to be a good one. Moreover, fines for traffic offences are not punishable unless they are paid or performed, for example, as a community service.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u18	Madam President! When this conversion penalty was relaxed at the time, one of the grounds that was then used in the presentation was that these shoplifters are often so - called ripples or marginalized, who then may not even be able to afford to pay these fines and who, perhaps, in some way, would be under amnesty. But it is important to remember that no one is punished for this exclusion, but for the crime committed. In this respect, it is important to stress that this fine must also be subject to a conversion penalty in the future, so that the crime actually results in a penalty and that the offence is not allowed to escape. The last time that this conversion penalty was being worked on, it was considered important that these police fines should come to the point where this conversion penalty is possible for those who have repeatedly been fined, and it is now good that this committee's opinion shows that this is the case, that if there is such a repetition, then the conversion penalties will continue to be applied and the crime will also be punished. I think it is a good thing that the Committee on Legal Affairs has intervened in this matter at this stage of preparation, so that, hopefully, good legislation can be brought to an end at once, so that this sawing back and forth can be stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u19	Madam President! I agree with Mr Tolvanen, the chairman of the Legal Committee. I hope that the fine now being abolished will be replaced by a replacement and better proposal as soon as possible. However, it is a question of the credibility of our legal system, which is now, unfortunately, under the conditions of repeated fines. There is an urgent need for a new proposal, especially for many traders, shopkeepers, who have been rightly concerned about their legal security now that this law adopted last spring turned out to be too expensive and bureaucratic. It is therefore good to know that the preparation of a replacement proposal has already begun at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u20	Madam President! Now that there is really this sort of intermission that goes some time before the new law comes from there, then you can underscore that the police, on the other hand, have no limitations but they can have new fines even next week. With these MPs with police backgrounds, perhaps they are still police officers, nothing more than to communicate it to colleagues to get to work, we can get this thing right on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u21	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 12/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Turunen, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, will begin the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u22	Madam President! This government proposal proposes that Parliament approve the agreement on the Unified Patent Court. The agreement will decide on Finland's participation in the new European patent system and that the Single Patent Protection Regulation and the Single Patent Translation Schemes will also apply in Finland. This is a blanket law which, as a law, enforces the provisions of the law of the Unified Patent Court. The Government's proposal also proposes that Parliament approve an explanation of the provisional application of the agreement. The proposal also includes proposals to amend the Patent Act, the Code of Justice, the Law on the Protection of Evidence in Civil Matters of Intellectual Property Rights, the Code of Enforcement and the Criminal Code. The entry into force of the entire reform of the European patent system requires 13 States to deposit their instruments of ratification or accession to the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court. The proposal relates to and is intended to be dealt with in the context of the 2016 draft budget of the State. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states that the agreement and the related regulations will complete the process which began at the beginning of the 21st century and which the Committee has followed and commented on during the various stages of the preparatory work. By joining the system immediately during its entry into force, Finland will ensure the best chances of developing the system for the best benefit to Finnish operators. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the aim of the new patent system is to facilitate patenting, reduce costs and increase legal certainty. Under the single patent system, patent applicants can obtain patent protection for their inventions in all the countries that have ratified the system with one application, less translation obligations and one patent fee. The central court procedure eliminates the need to pursue separate actions in different Member States. The new system is also conducive to harmonising the interpretation of patent regulation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considers it important for legal certainty and access to justice to have a local section of the Unified Patent Court in Finland that has been advocated in the Government's proposal. Based on the current assessment, this option would provide the best possible protection for the needs of Finnish SMEs in particular. A government proposal for the creation of a local section is to be submitted to Parliament for approval. With regard to the costs, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the costs of participating in the system, the use of the single patent and the possible judicial procedure are still to some extent not agreed. The current estimate is that the annual fee for the single patent will increase the rate of the fee towards the end of the patent period compared to the current patent fees. On the other hand, other charges, including translation costs, are estimated to fall compared to the current ones. The Patent and Registration Board will continue to grant national patents and will act as investigating authority under the International Patent Cooperation Agreement under Wipo. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important to ensure the continuity of the PRH. For SMEs in particular, it is essential that national patents can still be obtained at a reasonable price. According to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, it is appropriate to seek to strengthen the role of the PRH as an authority of the European Patent Office receiving and participating in research, also for applicants outside the EU. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that when the revenue from patenting is falling, it is necessary to clarify how the financing of the PRH's activities will be secured in the longer term. In the case of over-expenditure, support for the PRH shall be guaranteed through budget funding, if deemed necessary. The Committee on Economic Affairs, such as the Legal Affairs Committee and a number of experts, attaches great importance to national patent competence and its development. Finland must systematically invest in measures to promote IPR competence. It is also essential that Finnish companies, both small and large, recognise the central importance of intellectual property protection for business activities and internationalisation. Different training and guidance work requires close cooperation between both authorities and stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u23	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 13/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter is presented by the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u24	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on non-governmental ADR in consumer matters. The Government’s proposal implements nationally the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Alternative Dispute Resolution in Consumer Disputes. The Government's proposal also proposes amendments to the laws adopted by the Consumer Disputes Board and the Damages Board, as well as to the Consumer Protection Act and the Law on debt obsolescence, proposes a technical revision. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the adoption of legislative proposals contained in a government proposal without amendment, with the following comments: The expert hearing of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has raised the question of the possibility of centralising the handling of disputes arising from insurance contracts with the Insurance Board. This would require the exclusion of this dossier from the remit of the Consumer Disputes Board. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the limitation of powers would undermine the role of the Consumer Dispute Settlement Board as a universal dispute resolution body for virtually all consumer contracts. The composition of the Insurance Division of the Consumer Disputes Board shall ensure that the Board also has sufficient expertise to deal with insurance matters. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that contact with consumer advice is a prerequisite for the process to be dealt with by the Consumer Disputes Board. The proposed provision has been considered to increase the overall efficiency of consumer handling. In any event, the Board may, at its discretion, deal with a matter where it is unlikely that added value would be achieved by the fact that the consumer first contacts consumer advice. The question of whether consumer advice could be considered as a dispute resolution body under the Directive has also been raised in the expert consultation. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy does not consider it appropriate to create a dispute resolution body within the meaning of the directive. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that consumer disputes relating to motor insurance fall within the scope of the Directive, so the consumer must be able to refer disputes of this category to an ADR entity that meets the requirements of the Directive. In order to ensure consistency in the case-law, it is considered appropriate that disputes arising at the initiative of the injured parties should also be resolved by the Road Damages Board. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out that the main pressures for change resulting from the implementation of the directive are likely to arise from the 90-day deadline for dealing with a consumer dispute. The time is calculated from the arrival of the material required for the solution. In view of the new deadline, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs shares the concern expressed in the expert hearing about ensuring the resources of the Consumer Disputes Board.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u25	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 14/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Congressman Turunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u26	Madam President! This is where the Board of Directors proposes to amend the Act on Payment Institutions, the Payment Services Act and the Act on Financial Supervision. The aim is to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on transfer prices for card-based payment transactions. The Financial Supervisory Act would include provisions on administrative penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation. The Financial Supervisory Authority would be designated as the competent authority for the purposes of the Regulation to monitor compliance with the Regulation. The Government's proposal would include an informative provision in the Payment Services Act on the possibility of bringing a dispute between a payee and a payment service provider based on the application of the Regulation to an out-of-court dispute resolution body. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes the adoption of legislative proposals unchanged. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the objective of the Regulation on transfer prices is to harmonise the regulation relating to the use of payment cards, thereby promoting cross-border trade and market access for new operators and payment applications. The main proposals of the Regulation are maximum values for transfer prices: up to 0.2% for debit card payments and 0.3% for credit card payments. The ceiling prices to be set for debit cards are slightly higher than those applied at national level. In addition, there have been various transfer price cutters in use in Finland, which have kept transfer prices at a reasonable level also for large card payments. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the Government's proposal has concluded that, given the specific characteristics of the Finnish market, at least at this stage, it is not appropriate to take advantage of the given national discretion. From the point of view of our national markets, the most important options allowed by the Regulation relate to transfer prices for national banking and credit card transactions. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agrees with the government's proposals on this issue. The committee regrets that the objective of Finland's negotiations was not to set a limit of one cent for transfer prices. EU regulation leads to a much higher transfer price for large card payments in euros than for small card payments. The Committee also considers it important that the impact of the new regulation on the market be monitored and, in the light of the experience gained, actively influenced in order to eliminate any shortcomings. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the national supervisory authority for payment service providers is the Financial Supervisory Authority, which has both the supervisory responsibility and the right to impose a penalty fee for infringements of certain provisions of the Regulation. In future, financial supervision should also ensure that the service provider designates the institution in which the disputes between payees and service providers are settled in the event of disputes. A separate government proposal to further develop the ADR procedure available to consumers is currently under discussion in the Parliament. According to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the consumer ombudsman is responsible for monitoring the rules applicable to the relationship between the consumer and the trader in accordance with the rules already in force, i.e. the Consumer Protection Act and the Payment Services Act. Established ADR entities have been available to consumers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u27	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u28	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u29	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of speeches were made on this subject during the referral debate and at first reading, and the situation is that, when we are at second reading, I will read this objection, which has been signed by the committee by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP. This objection is worded as follows: "The government parties have broken the commonly agreed This is contrary to what was agreed by the parliamentary parties together and violates the will of both Parliament and this committee only a few years ago as regards the law on the financing and independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. Joint Declaration of the Presidents of Parliament Groups of 16 December 2011: ‘In 2013 the public service funding level of Yleisradio Oy will be EUR 500 million, including taxes. The level shall be adjusted annually in line with the annual increase in the cost level according to the index.” As well as: ‘If there is a need for material changes in the further preparation of the solution agreed today, parliamentary support will also be used in preparing them.’ In its draft budget for 2016, the Government is also moving the funding of Yleisradio into the framework of central government finances, contrary to the declaration of the group presidents of parliamentary parties on 16 December 2011: ‘In order to ensure the independence of Yleisradio Oy, it is justified that the public service tax is not included in the framework of central government finances. The tax is technically charged to the state budget, from which the funds are allocated to the State Television and Radio Fund.” The transfer to the framework harms the independent position of the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, despite promises to respect it. There is no justification for the technical requirement for relocation when other funds have been kept outside the spending limits by a political decision. As part of its public finances plan, the Government has stated that it will implement additional cuts in the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company by freezing the index of the public service tax for the entire parliamentary term. This also violates the principles of parliamentary procedure and threatens the independent public service mission of YLE. It is also significant that the freezing of the index does not have any impact on central government deficits or in any way on the purchasing power of citizens. It is a purely political choice. The funding of the public radio must be genuinely returned to parliamentary preparation. The presentations must be prepared only on the basis of the results of the parliamentary working group on the evaluation of the public service mission and funding of the YLE set up by Minister of Transport and Communications Berner on 30 October 2015. " In view of the above, we proposed in committee and propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u30	Madam President! Mr Taimela has already summed up the concerns of the opposition. So we all know that Yle's activities are governed by the Yle law and Yle's activities must be independent, funding is transparent and independent. There has been a reason that Parliament has been the parliamentary body responsible for Yle's activities and responsible for funding. In the same sense that the funding of Yle has now been transferred to the central government frameworks, it is not in line with the parliamentary agreement of one parliament. That is why I support Mr Taimela's objection to the rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u31	Mr President! All of this includes the exemption of 300000 low-income persons from Yle-Tax, including persons covered by the guarantee pension. I am surprised that the Left does not appreciate what is very important here as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u32	Mr President! I was also surprised that it was proposed to reject a proposal on the left-hand side of the Chamber with a total of 300,000 low-income items exempt from VAT. They would not then receive a Yle-tax slip, or they would not have to pay anything. In my opinion, it is fair in a difficult time like this. I do not know whether this is now the famous choice of values on the left that even these low-income people must pay the Yle-Tax. On the other hand, the index is also frozen here, so no one would pay. Elevate more than you're doing right now. Is this also a choice of values for the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats that everyone must pay even more High Tax in these difficult times?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u33	Madam President! After all, this debate has been held many times and we have expressed our deep concern that we are now moving away from the tradition of decades that Yle's affairs should be decided without conflict in accordance with the parliamentary procedure. You can be left alone, Mr Heinonen, we are not opposed to the calculation of VAT for the most low incomes. We are not opposed to this, but no, we have a different law which addresses this and we will make a statement in connection with it that these matters should be prepared in a parliamentary manner. I find it very sad that the government parties have now gone into this. I would also like to remind you of what we went through here last time, that this discount for low incomes came only after the government had already decided on these index freezes, so there was a slightly different purpose to what you are now generously referring to. But we are not opposed to the fact that low incomes are counted, instead we are in favour of parliamentary
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u34	Mr President! I feel like I'm getting a little acidic here. It seems that measures to facilitate the position of low incomes are not good enough for our green left. In my opinion, it is great that 300,000 low-income incomes will not then have to pay the Yle-tax, that they will be able to look at the Yle that leads this public service mission in the future without the Yle-tax, and that, on the other hand, no Finnish citizen in these difficult times, when everything is saved, will have to pay more than the Yle-tax. It seems that this is a good thing but a wrong-doing thinking. In my opinion, it is a good thing that low incomes are exempt from the High Tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u35	Madam President! We are trying to take the debate completely to the other side of the issue. The opposition has criticised precisely the way in which you have acted. And Mr Heinonen has not been in the referral debate or at first reading perhaps to hear the debate that we have had here, so perhaps that is why you are expressing these concerns. We are not opposed to the release of low incomes, but we are calling for this to be returned to parliamentary preparation, as required by the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u36	Mr President! I must say that it is a repulsive and brazen way in which representatives of the government parties wash their hands here and say that they are on the side of low-income Finns when, over the past six months, you have brought to this Chamber one bill after another, in which you are chastising the very lowest-income people in this country. What we are talking about here is something else entirely. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u40	Madam President! I am sure that this has to do with the series we have seen recently that the opposition's message and ideas are being distorted once and for all. I repeat, if Mr Heinonen did not hear it just now, that we are not opposed to facilitating the excessive tax burden on low-income people, but we are opposed to that, indeed, that the government, through its actions, is deviating from the honourable parliamentary criterion of decades by actually putting the funding of YLE under the thumb of the government. And I agree with Mrs Feldt-Ranta's criticism of that,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u43	Madam President! I have to say, you can't give me class points for this. All this needed was three or four invitations by e-mail or SMS to invite all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups together. We would now be unanimously adopting this law if we had bothered to do so. I don't know if this went against ignorance or speed blindness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u44	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kivelä, for what you just said. Mr Heinonen's sincerity defends the low incomes I suspect. Would it be more of a question of having a very large share of capital income with millions of capital income, but with very small earnings, so that they too will not be subject to this High Tax? Would that be the reason you took that speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u45	Mr President! Yle-tax is a tax that Finns pay, and many people are happy to pay it, but I understand the low-income people to whom this money is now a big deal at a difficult time like this. That is why the Government has now decided that 300,000 low incomes will be exempt from Yle-tax and that they will no longer have to pay the Yle-tax, and then that the index will be frozen so that Yle-tax will not rise in any of the Finns. I think it's the right thing to do. But it is sad that the impression is given here that if a bad decision is made elsewhere in the face of necessity, difficult times in the economy, then there would be no right to make some good decision for the same people who, from another direction, have become something unfortunate, such as coeliac pay or savings in education or savings in many other ways. I think it is good that solutions are also being made in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u46	Mr President! We in this country's parliament, and in recent weeks we have seen a completely new culture nested in this country's parliament, which is trying to distract us, talking about it and justifying it with arguments that do not stand up in any way. Mr Heinonen, the Government's proposal 44 now under discussion has nothing to do with this matter, which you spoke about in any way. Now we are talking about the government transferring the Yle-funding to the framework, and the index check. We believe that it is a good thing if 300,000 Finns are exempt from this fee, but it is a presumptuous way by which you give the impression that you are now a great friend of the poor. You have brought and supported all the cuts that are very unfairly directed against the most low-income Finns. Customer fees are rising, the housing allowance for pensioners is decreasing and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u51	Madam President! First of all, we must pay tribute to Mrs Kivelä, the chairman of Yle's Board of Directors, for these honest words. At first reading, when we discussed this proposal, it was fair to acknowledge that there has been a childhood and a mistake. What is confusing, however, is that now the same party will become completely different performances, as would be the ten good ones now offering one evil when one evil is gone. It has become clear that this is not a question of economic policy, but of political choice, political appropriateness, and that is why I support it. A rendition motion made by the trout.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u52	Madam President! In fact, referring to recent plays, if you can say what we have seen in this House, I would like to see the opinion of the opposition being taken seriously by the government parties and not going to distort our position on what we have said quite clearly on many occasions: we are perfectly happy to see that the low-income ones ease the excessive tax burden. And as has been said here, that is not the point. But with regard to these low-income cuts and cuts to them, I am not, Mr President,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u55	Madam President! I too would like to thank Mr Kivelä for his bold speech, but unfortunately it is not possible to say the same about Mr Heinonen's speech here. It is just as Mr Kymäläinen said: it was recognised here on the part of the government parties that this is a childhood and that these rules of play, which have now been agreed together, have been violated. In other words, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in December 2011 jointly wrote a declaration committing themselves to that parliamentary preparation for the YLE, i.e., that if changes are made, they will be prepared by parliament. That is exactly what this debate and the debate we had last week in this very Chamber has been about. In other words, there has been a clear violation of the common rules of the game which have been agreed together, and I hope that Mr Heinos will also have the backbone to admit it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u56	Mr President! There is no doubt that there has been an accident at work or a procedural error which will probably not happen again. But, Mr President, I would say that general taxation is a tax and is calculated at the Finnish tax rate. After all, there were no reforms in the last parliamentary term except that taxation was tightened up, and I believe that this whole is also linked to the fact that I believe that the road to tax tightening has been completed in Finland. And it is an excellent thing when it comes to this whole, that this tax can be abolished for the low-income.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u57	Madam President! I'm glad the conversation here is so interesting that I like coming back from my own office 15 minutes away. It is excellent, Mr Ala-Nissila, that you are talking about the whole — that is exactly what the opposition here is trying to talk about. And it just seems that, according to an external team of researchers, 80% of the government's decisions on cuts to pensioners are directed at pensioners whose pensions and pension income are less than EUR 1300, while the average Finnish pension is currently EUR 1540. In other words, it means that the decisions taken by the government specifically discipline pensioners on low incomes as a whole. It's great that the Yle-tax goes away from low-income people, but it's the whole thing that counts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u58	Then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u59	Mr President! I will confine myself to the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary amendment of Article 3 of the Act on the State Television and Radio Fund. This presentation has been prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and has been requested by the Finnish Broadcasting Agency, FICORA and the Ministry of Finance, and nothing has become objectionable. And, of course, whether or not it is how this matter has been dealt with, now it has been the best possible performance of an A — probably not, but here we are, and this is the decision of the Parliament. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the State Television and Radio Fund so that no index increase would be made to the budget of the State Television and Radio Fund to cover the public service costs of YLE in 2016. I believe that surgery is necessary in the current economic situation. The Government's budget proposes the abolition of VAT on low incomes by raising the lowest income limit from 7500 to 10300 euros per year. As many here have said, it is a good help for these 300,000 small pensioners that they will not have to pay this tax. This is therefore a relief for, among other things, the beneficiaries of the guarantee pension, but of course affects the whole. A parliamentary working group has been set up to evaluate the tasks and funding of Yle, which is financed by public funds. It is good to check the need for an annual funding of half a billion dollars and whether Yle’s profile includes the production of a number of entertainment programs at a time when there are huge amounts of commercial media available for these. By concentrating Yle's activities on news and topical programmes and regional production, it is certainly possible to still make savings. In practice, according to this proposal, the impact is very small in the annual funding of more than half a billion, i.e. only about EUR 6 million, and now that we have to look for savings everywhere, Yle will also take his share of these savings. And, as I said at the outset, I am no longer concerned at this stage with how this debate has come to this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u60	Mr President! Indeed, as has been said here about decades of history, we go back in time to 1948, when the so-called Lex Yahweh was accepted as a result of the fact that the heat of the Yleisradio was then drawn from the east, that is, the Director General Wuolijoki was bored and wanted more effectively to control the Yleisradio by the Parliament. This has been a very central principle and I must say that this principle has been violated with the worst stylistic points. As I said earlier in the debate, it was very unwise and apparently filled with speed blindness that this matter was brought so quickly. Personally, I don't want to believe in any conspiracy theories. And, just as this parliamentary group has begun, it would have been better if the talks on the frameworks had only started after the work of this group. I believe 100% that, in the future, this almost sacred principle of parliamentary control of the YLE will continue to apply. But undoubtedly this has created a certain distortion which we must now, in political agreement, be able to resolve without enthusiasm and government-opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u61	Madam President! I also appreciate Mr Kivelä's point of view here. He sees the very history of what has been here and what has been valuable and good for all of us, the fact that we have stuck to this Parliamentarism, in principle, precisely because we have quite frightening examples of when the YLE is put under the thumb of the government, but, for the tenth time, I am sure I will repeat its important principle — the YLE is the radio of the people, the radio of Parliament, and in no way should it be carried out by the government. This is a good principle, an important principle. And I, too, say, like Mr Kivelä's spirit, that it is sad, that we are talking about the subject of universal radio. That's not a good thing. I think that this strong feeling of why this must be done has been very serious to me, at least in recent times, that why the government did this. I appreciate the fact that Mr Kivelä has just acknowledged and told this childhood here, and I would also like to see a certain humility in identifying this matter, for example, from the right side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u62	Värderade Talman! Jag tycker att det är viktigt att framhålla att det parliamentariska ansvaret, det gemensmma ansvaret för Yle, är oerhört viktigt. Det är bra att man också rai nu har constaterat att regeringen har avvikit från det rau, och att man beklagar det från regeringspartnernas håll och att man har installt att det är ett misstag och att man kommer att korrigera det. Jag vill bara säga så mycket att svenska riksdagsgruppen inte har motsat sig själva indexfrysningen för 2016, men madaremot har vi kraftigt proesterat mot ättet på vilket det är skedde, det vill säga att regeringen fattade ett beslut om det och sedan började man kolla med opposition spartierna. Frågan om den parliamentariska beredningen i Yle-frågor är alldeles fundamental och jag tycker att ox har använts bra och kloka inlägg om den bull saken. Regeringen har brut mot det bull. Nonchalansen mot det parliamentariska beslutsfattandet i Yle-frågor förstarks ytterligare av att regeringen har satt in Yle-finansiering innanför ramarna, budgetramarna. I den förra parliamentarbetsgruppen beslutade vi att inte göra på det sättet, så är är nu TVå frågor som naggar regeringens trovärdighet i kanterna. Det är indexfrysningen och det är också frågan om att flytta in Yle-finansieringen i budgetramarna. Men jag hoppas att regeringen har tagit lärdom och att vi nu i den parliamentwoman arbetsgruppen tittar på det här och fattar besluten parliamentaristt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u63	Mr President! I am speaking now, when the House calmed down a little and allowed to speak, which is, of course, the right given to the Members of Parliament in the Constitution, and of course the President has not questioned it, perhaps our aggressive Green Left questioned the fact that what can be discussed, Yle is now, of course, being discussed as a whole. It may be that preparations have taken place, as Mrs Kivelä, the chairman of the Yle Board of Directors, who we appreciate, said, a stylistic breach. These have usually been drawn by the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, and so this time too, and let us leave it second. But the most important thing is, of course, the outcome that was achieved. And I think the result is a good one: 300,000 of the low incomes are exempt from VAT. They won't have to pay for Yle's services in the future. The index is frozen, so in these difficult times no Finnish Yle-tax will rise. On the other hand, it is now underlined that Parliament will continue to decide on Yle's legislation and also on the financing of Yle, i.e. the government does not make decisions in this country, but decisions are taken in Parliament and will be made after this small, perhaps formal error.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u64	Mr President! I think Mr Heinonen's speech was a little strange because now
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u67	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u68	Madam President! It has actually been pretty great that this kind of discussion is taking place, although in places this has been a little less correct and of course in this debate such party politics and government—positional arrangements have appeared. But, above all, we will continue the debate around Yle, because yes, we must realise that the fact that the YLE is under parliamentary control really means that this is the case. It is very regrettable that the Yle report, for example, is being discussed here, that the Chamber is often full of emptiness and is perhaps just a presentation and it is being scolded. Here we have the place of each Member of Parliament, and even today we have to look in the mirror at the Members of Parliament who took part in this debate, that we should actually have this debate around Yle more genuinely and seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u69	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u70	Mr President! I propose that the House approve the four motions for statements which are in line with the objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u71	Madam President! We are dealing with a citizens' initiative aimed at preventing the closure of the smallest obstetrical units. This initiative collected nearly 67,000 signatures and more than 20 thousand names from us in the Meri-Lap area in Lapland. This initiative seeks to amend the so-called on-call regulation. The decree was adopted in order to strengthen the on-call services of maternity hospitals. According to the regulation, childbirth hospitals must have 24-hour emergency sectioning facilities and a pediatrician or a doctor who is well-trained in the care of paediatrics who is able to consult a paediatric specialist. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has justified this issue by improving patient safety, but we, for example, in the area of Meri-Lap are already meeting the criteria of this on-call regulation, apart from the fact that there are fewer than 1000 births per year: approximately 650. However, I would like to raise a point about the election programme for Finns, which was based on the need to dismantle the on-call regulation. This is a direct quote: "The basic Finns believe that the regulation creates considerable additional costs, and we do not consider a sustainable system under exemption. In addition, the Emergency Services Regulation threatens to end childbirths in several hospitals in the future, which in turn affects other specialised sectors as a domino effect. We are not in favour of concentrating childbirth on large units. Emergency services should be considered as part of a larger package." In this connection, my dear Finns, where did this election promise go?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u72	Värderade fru talman! Jag stöder ledamot Nylanders förslag. Mr President! I therefore support Mr Nylander's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u73	Mr President! This fate of maternity hospitals will certainly continue to speak to this Parliament around the reform of social security and its solution. There is a model of 12 24/7 hospitals in large-scale emergency services and, in part, it has been suggested in public that they would be these maternity hospitals in the future. As far as I can see, the number of maternity hospitals is too low, and I have given myself the impression that the maternity hospitals will continue to be more. Perhaps in the future, in part, we will have births — I am nothing but a professional of another child himself, a little like a midwife in the face of a busy situation, and then followed by another — that is what I have understood, in situations that have been known to be already dangerous, in situations that are dangerous for a child or a mother, to be concentrated in larger hospitals, where there is a better readiness for such situations. I hope, however, that the number of maternity hospitals will continue to be higher than that 12, which, as far as I know, has now shimmered in some press reports even as the number of maternity hospitals.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u74	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä is right to say that the minimum requirement of 1000 births mentioned in the regulation is not about safety, patient safety or quality. If all the other criteria relating to this quality and safety are met, but the quantitatively below the 1000 births requirement, then I think that this concept of safety is being misused. During the debate on this citizens' initiative, too, the committee and the open hearing announced that there may be a future demand for 2000 births. In other words, this limit is very vague and variable, which shows that it is not a question of patient safety but of a desire to get rid of certain types of birth centres, and that this patient safety is being used in the wrong way, so we should focus on those factors that really affect this safety and quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u75	Madam President! You don't want to fix the good stuff. As has been said here, the safety of newborns and births in Finland has been absolutely top-notch in Europe. There's been no quality problem. There is no reason why births in small hospitals should be stopped. When everyone knows that emergency services leave with childbirth, the situation becomes very difficult in many places. And this time I am talking about clean flour in a bag, because births have already been taken from Savonlinna, and unfortunately with the result that when childbirths and a large part of emergency operations have been transferred to Mikkeli, Kuopio, Joensuu and Lappeenranta, the hospital district has been reduced by EUR 4 million already in the early stages. In other words, when the government seeks different savings in the economy, this does not bring them, and that is why this should be reconsidered. You don't want to fix the good stuff.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u76	Mr President! The exemption allowed by the Emergency Services Regulation has since been granted to all five hospitals applying for authorisation — this is from the committee's report. We have now achieved this social agreement, and these will then be under the control of these areas of society in the future. I understand the concern, and it is important that we continue to look at this. These permits are now limited in time, partly because, in the context of the social and health care reform, there is also a significant change in the organisation of emergency services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u77	Madam President! I will talk about the situation in Lapland. As regards the Central Hospital of Western Ostrobothnia, it is the second smallest maternity hospital in Mainland Finland. According to statistics, 628 children were born there in 2013, and due to the proximity of the border, some birthers have come from northern Sweden, but the numbers are not very high. The hospital is well equipped for quality births. We have long journeys in the north: The University Hospital of Oulu comes 110 kilometres from Kemi, and Rovaniemi is about 100 kilometres away. Representative Huhtasaari brought up those waivers. Last season, Minister Huovinen granted an exemption to the Central Hospital of Western Ostrobothnia to continue childbirths, but now the situation is getting worse because these war areas do not have time to enter into force before the end of the derogation, so now the least that I can do is to grant further permission for these exceptions before we are in this new war area, including the Central Hospital of West Ostrobothnia.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u78	Mr President! To the extent that I really hope now that the representatives of the government parties will see what happens to this regulation, because it is in the regulation, the on-call regulation, this requirement for 1000 births. If it is really the case that both the liquidator and the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health still want to raise this minimum to 2000 then it would certainly be appropriate to exercise a little of this kind of political lobbying and indeed to question the grounds on which this is based in its entirety, so now I ask that the representatives of the government parties be really awake when this issue is being discussed at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u79	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u80	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u81	The 15th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 8/2015 vp, a single reading of the agreement and then a second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u82	Madam President! The Government's proposal suggests that Parliament would accept, among other things, the charging of road user charges for the use of roads from foreign transport companies. This is a highly desirable and expected reform that will finally come into force. The proposal contributes to improving the competitiveness of Finnish transport companies vis-à-vis foreign transport entrepreneurs. The proposal also promotes business activity by reducing costs for freight transport and facilitating taxi transport between countries. Road tolls are mentioned in the Finnish Government Programme. As the committee also points out, this proposal will clarify road traffic between Finland and Russia and remove unnecessary obstacles to transport. It is good that the agreement also clarifies the current situation in the case of Russian taxis. At the moment, this has been very difficult to monitor, but it is now becoming easier to monitor and thus better to prevent the informal economy. For its part, the committee considered that the agreement was not fully balanced and balanced. These were the weights and dimensions allowed in Finland and Russia. The weights allowed in Finland are higher than allowed in Russia, and there are differences not only in the maximum total weights but also in the way in which they are calculated. This affects transport costs, in particular through the system of overweight in use in Russia. However, it should be remembered that in Russia and Finland, vehicles are generally weighed differently. In Finland, the vehicle is weighed one vehicle at a time and in Russia it is still weighed mainly by axle. This creates significant errors in the Russian weighing method to the loss of the driver and the transport operator. I also welcome the fact that the committee has taken a position on the fuel content of Russian vehicles. Indeed, the maximum fuel level should be limited to 400 litres. In this case, the driver would also have to purchase fuel from Finland and would contribute to the operation of cabotage, especially in southern Finland. Madam President! I consider this government proposal to be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u83	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u84	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented for part, in part, for the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 5/2015 vp, at the sole reading on the termination of the agreement and then at second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u85	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u86	Madam President! It is proposed to include the use of funds for the management of cervid populations as well as other similar expenditure. I believe that this is a very important addition, because in recent years management plans have been put in place to improve, among other things, the vitality and management of the forest deer. In the endangered classification, a forest deer must be kept under observation, not really endangered. It must be remembered, however, that only Finland and Karelia in Russia have deer in the world. The largest forest deer population is in Karelia in Russia. In Finland, the forest deer population is currently the largest in Kainuu, where there are about 1,500 of them. Some animals are also found in North Karelia and in the Suomenselkä region. According to this amendment, funds can be allocated, inter alia, to projects to strengthen the vitality of the forest deer stock. This is why I welcome the amendment. The present generation will decide whether the forest deer population is viable for future generations or whether there will be any species in Finland in the future. Even large predators contribute to the taxing of the deer stock, and in the deer area, large predators must also be kept sufficiently low. According to the proposal, the funds could also be used to cover expenditure on the register of game damage. This would improve the management of deer populations. This would allow damage prevention by hunting or other measures. These measures will prevent, in particular, large fluctuations in the stock of elk, affecting, among other things, damage to the forest economy and deer accidents. This change will therefore also have an impact on road safety for all of us. Mr President! I consider the proposal as a whole to be very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u87	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u88	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u89	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u90	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u91	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u92	Madam President! The new Fisheries Act will enter into force on 1 January 2016. The new law introduces the term 'commercial fishing' in place of professional fishing. According to Article 4(18), a commercial fisherman is a natural or legal person registered in a register of commercial fishing operators. The Government's proposal proposes that amendments to the Fuel Tax Act be made to the provisions on the tax treatment of fuels used in professional fishing, as required by the new Fisheries Act. These changes to the Fuel Tax Act have not previously been taken into account in the preparation of the Fisheries Act, which is quite understandable. A register shall be kept of the commercial fishermen mentioned in the Fisheries Act. In addition, the fishing vessel used by the fishing operator shall be registered in the register of fishing vessels or in the register of watercraft kept from sea fishing vessels or inland fishing vessels. The register and the registration certificate issued under it shall indicate the category of the commercial fisherman: whether he belongs to category I or to category II. In order to facilitate the practical implementation and control of fuel tax subsidies, the proposal proposes that duty-free fuel may only be used by a fishing operator, which is included in Group I of that register. The number of new and active fishermen is not expected to increase substantially with the new fishing law. Currently statistics show that at the end of 2014, there were a total of 540 marine and 315 inland professional fishermen in the current register of professional fishermen entitled to tax-free fuel. These fishermen will not, in principle, be affected by any changes in fuel use. They are still entitled to use duty-free fuel on their ships. The proposal is not expected to increase the workload of Customs. However, as a former water traffic controller, I would like to see Customs more closely monitored in inland waters as well. The risk of getting caught reduces illegality considerably more than increases in punishment. However, I understand the limited number of Customs staff. Mr President! I think the government's proposal is very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u93	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u94	Madam President! As a result of the changes proposed in this proposal, drivers already with driving licences would be very much affected. Among other things, the validity periods for duplicate long-term driving licences and other replacement driving licences referred to in the proposal would be substantially reduced in practice. The extent to which the validity would be reduced in practice and the financial impact of the change would depend, inter alia, on the period of validity of the licence on which the application is based. A shorter period of validity would increase the number of renewals of drivers' driving licences and would entail additional costs. According to the proposal, this could happen in particular with regard to driving licences containing the right to drive heavy goods vehicles, because they have shorter periods of validity. Driving licences for heavy goods vehicles would have to be renewed every five years and driving licences for group 1 every 15 years until the age of 70. The government is investing in the surveillance of the shadow economy, and that's a good thing. Some of the gray economy travels on the road on rubber wheels. With this proposal, too, the cost of heavy transport would increase substantially again. It is already very difficult for a Finnish transport entrepreneur to compete with a competitor from outside the EU. Distortion of competition between transport entrepreneurs leads to distortions for Finnish society as a whole and undermines the ability of honest Finnish transport entrepreneurs to work in the sector on an equal footing with a foreign transport entrepreneur. I believe that the costs of the renewal of driving licences should be compensated in some way for the driver or the transport operator. Mr President! The proposal would also have administrative implications. These amendments will increase the number of renewals of driving licences by the police and, consequently, by the authorities. These proposed changes in the period of validity and their effects also lead to the need for changes in the registration system. At present, the police information system The joke is just under construction, and there is no certainty that it will be completed. Because of the above considerations, I find the proposal quite challenging and more costly for the holder of the licence and for the authorities. It is possible to implement the reform, but these aspects must be taken into account in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u95	Mr President! The aim has always been to reduce red tape. The Government's proposal for a law amending the driving licence law will increase bureaucracy and costs. If you change your last name or become the target of a robbery and apply for a new driving licence, you will no longer receive the driving licence under the same conditions as your previous driving licence. It's unfair. The presentation would also require the renewal of driving licences for heavy goods vehicles every five years. Heavy equipment drivers do not need additional costs or bureaucracy. This should now at least be compensated for in terms of costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u96	Madam President! At this stage, I would like to thank Mr Kulmala for his excellent contribution to this reform. I can see that there are a lot of things in this proposal that are positive, but also a number of elements that deserve to be viewed critically in committee. We must see how this proposal views the Government Programme's call for us to reduce standards and dismantle them, and also consider the financial impact this will have, above all, on operators in the transport sector. I do believe that attention will be paid to this and that it will be easy for Parliament to agree with it in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u97	Madam President! Thank you for listening to messages from here. Let's always look for those lunches. That's what these conversations are for. I myself dug up that original directive from 2006 and there I noticed in the introduction paragraph 5, which states that this directive should not restrict existing rights to driving which have been granted or achieved before the date of application of the directive. It is also good to look at the purpose of the directive, because it also talks about road safety and raising the level of safety. I understand the importance of road safety and roadworthiness, it is supported by roadworthiness testing, but perhaps this frequency of renewal is not quite right here. At this level of security, I noticed that here in the directive we are talking more about preventing counterfeiting. In my opinion, we have very high quality driving licences so that I do not understand how their deadlines and these would prevent them from being falsified, if they are already very well chipped. Somehow it seems that the requirements of this directive and, perhaps necessarily, the level of the Finnish Government's proposal are not quite balanced, that one might look at the fact that there is not the famous Suomi supplement here again. I would like you to take a good look at it in committee. Honestly, this is going to be bureaucracy and costs to people. In Finland, the level of documentation is certainly not so poor that it is the reason for the increase in the level of security, so that you look carefully at this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u98	Madam President! I myself drew attention to the fact that the authors of opinions have been reasonably critical of this point, i.e. a large number of opinions have on the one hand considered this to be justified, but then criticised, for example, the increase in red tape or the increase in costs. In particular, the same point that Mr Meri has just raised, namely that the counterfeiting and misuse of driving licences have not been a problem in Finland, but this is one of the key reasons for this reform. I personally understand that there are reasons for this reform, but it is certainly necessary for the committee to take a careful look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u99	The 25th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee, TrVM 5/2015 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session of 27 November 2015. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u100	Madam President! There really was a good debate on this last week. As a member of the committee, I would draw attention to the fact that this report states that the government's annual report needs to be developed. That number of pages is large, but the information is not analysed, it is not focused, and above all the effectiveness of the government's actions should be looked at and provided information to Parliament. It's very important. This report also deals with the issues raised by the Audit Committee during the last period, such as the informal economy, such as home schools, Senate buildings. I think it has done a good job in the previous period, and it is important that the new Parliament still sees where we are at and sort of concludes them. Now the Audit Committee itself is considering new issues, which will then be important in this period when monitoring the work of the government, and raising a few important issues. All that government report has evolved, but indeed — if you compare the annual reports of companies and others with data that are much more analysed, more focused and more accurate about results and effectiveness — this is a challenge, and I believe that next year that report will be clearly better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u101	Madam President! Indeed, the Audit Committee in this report drew attention to the government's annual reports, and this annual report has already been developed on the basis of previous Parliament's wishes, but the view that there is a need for further development is very strong, particularly in terms of legibility. I do not know how many MPs, for example, read these annual reports in this house, but it would be necessary for them to become an important document that will enable us to check how the government has implemented Parliament's decisions and Parliament's will. Well, then, this report has drawn particular attention to a number of important issues which Mr Ala-Nissila has already listed, and I would particularly like to raise the issue of combating this grey economy. In this respect, the government must be commended for the fact that the government has already withdrawn the cuts that have already been planned to combat the shadow economy, particularly as regards police action, but it is still necessary to continue to fight decisively against the shadow economy and financial crime. After all, we have experience of six consecutive action programmes to combat economic crime and the shadow economy, and that is not yet the decision taken by this government. Is there now a need for a separate programme of action for the parliamentary term, a programme of prevention, or perhaps a longer programme, for the government to consider, but, in any case, this work and determined work need to be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u102	Mr President! Congressman Räsänen brought up the gray economy. It is clear that the more supervisors and controls there have been, the more risk of being caught in the black economy as well. It is often forgotten that the grey economy also runs on rubber wheels, as I mentioned in my previous speech. When you abolished the police last season, there was also a significant reduction in the control of heavy traffic. This year it has fallen by 23 per cent from the previous year. The gray economy will thank you for this. Last season you also reduced police training, for example. As a result, there will not be enough new workers to monitor the shadow economy in the future. Again, the grey economy thanks. Recent asylum investigations also take away personnel from the study of the informal economy. Still the gray economy thanks. I don't thank you for this. Proper control of heavy traffic is in the interests of every honest haulier, as I have already mentioned today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u103	Madam President! The fact is that if the administrative reform of the police had not been carried out during the last period, which was agreed between the government parties, the whole government, we would have several hundred fewer police officers in traffic control and other police activities, that is to say less in field work. It is quite certain that the level of traffic control would also be lower. The administrative reform of the police, including the combination of the governing bodies of the mobile police and the local police, included the transfer of resources from the administration to the field work. Of course, the background lies in this tense economic situation, which we still have and which the police unfortunately have to deal with. But it is quite clear — and I hope that the representative will look into this further, even from that Ministry of the Interior — that this reform was in any case a positive reform in terms of traffic control.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u104	Mr President! We now have to answer this a little bit, even though the hall is almost empty. When this drill three was made, the goals were good: to get jobs in the field and to increase the number of field workers, among other things. But this has not really happened. So the chiefs have not been taken away from there at all, they are still in other senior posts, and they are only retiring from there to get places open. I do not believe, on the basis of statistics, that there have been no more officers in traffic control than there were in 2012 when the mobile police were in power. And the level of traffic control was supposed to remain at the level of 2012 after the Pora reform, but it has not remained there. There are clear statistics on this, and the last thing I received today was this year's statistics from the transport police, where I myself have been in the last year and the previous 16 years in the mobile police. I have quite good statistics on these traffic statistics so that you can even ask me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u105	Madam President! I repeat that I hope that Mr Kulmala will check his records with the Ministry of the Interior. When that police reform was carried out, it was precisely because no one was to be laid off. In other words, good human resources management was sought and, through retirement, those posts and tasks were intended to be reduced. This reduction does not only apply to managers, it also applies, for example, to administrative staff. In fact, over the last year, even during the first year of the reform, more savings were made than in the target schedule, precisely because of this reduction in staff, which is due to the fact that the age structure of the staff was so high, i.e. close to retirement age. Well, at no time was there any hope of increasing traffic control with those resources. Of course, I personally would like to see a lot more resources available to the police, both for traffic control and for all other police activities, but that has been a challenge because of these economic pressures. I would like to stress once again that if this reform, which was carried out, had not been carried out, we would have a much worse situation in all areas of police activity than it is at present. That is perfectly clear. I'm sure we can continue to discuss these documents with each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u106	Madam President! I would like to start by saying that, of course, I appreciate the work that Mr Räsänen did in his capacity as Minister under very difficult circumstances. But, of course, the situation is not going to change because in the last few years and as a result of the measures taken by previous governments as a whole, this system of internal security in Finland, in which the fight against the shadow economy is also linked, has unfortunately been driven down. In this context, I would like to thank this government for the fact that the last amending budget has allocated an additional amount of some EUR 15 million to internal security, which is of course a very important patch at this stage for patching up the wounds of these previous governments. But of course it is clear that now that we are starting to look at the frameworks in the spring, we must also be able to look critically at this internal security and consider how we will be able to maintain its system in such a way that the safety of our citizens is guaranteed, and also from the point of view of combating the shadow economy, that sufficient resources will be allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u107	Madam President! This is a very interesting debate on the organisation of police activities in connection with the Government's report. Of course, this does not undermine anyone's previous tasks, but I cannot help but associate myself with many of these observations made by Mr Kulmala. After all, he is a native, even though he represents Savo-Karjala from the Ylilaro axis, and that is the expertise that is currently available here in the Chamber, and it can be seen. My message from transport entrepreneurs has been quite clear: You'll no longer be under surveillance once the mobile police have been shut down. Let us not weigh the loads, let us not see the condition of the cars and the condition of the drivers of those cars. There is now a need for new ways of seeing the heavy traffic on our roads when the Internal Security Report is adopted. In particular, controls must be applied to this heavy foreign traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u108	Madam President! This goes around the subject now for this police debate, but that is good because it is the review of the previous government's annual report that is on the table. With regard to these resources to combat the shadow economy, I would like to say that last year there was an additional EUR 20 million in funding for this fight against the shadow economy. That's what the current government cut off. Well, with regard to the EUR 6.4 million, the government withdrew this cut decision, so it is hoped that the additional resources that have been made during the last period can now be retained for the police. After all, about 100 man-years of work were hired to do this fight against the black economy. In fact, it is not at all true that there has been a gap in this fight against the shadow economy over the last period, but, on the contrary, it has been strengthened. This was reflected, for example, in the fact that the proceeds of the crime back, the amount of the euro, clearly increased. And now there is a great risk, as the government itself has stated in this draft budget, that this amount of proceeds will be reduced — there will be a reduction of several million — that is to say, less catching up with the informal economy. In this respect, I really hope that you will now focus your energies on getting the government to get you through the fact that the fight against the shadow economy really will have both a sufficient degree of will in the operational programme and sufficient resources to stay at the level of the previous government, for example, with regard to the proceeds of crime that have been recovered. Mr President! With regard to these police resources, I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u109	Madam President! I would just like to say here to Mr Räsänen that perhaps this slight downward budgeting of the proceeds of crime has only shown that this government is dealing with the matter realistically. Of course, it would be easy to pull these things out of the hat and up what these measures can do. I fully agree that this withdrawal decision, which was taken by the government, was very sensible in this situation. It is great that the government has now shown that it is investing all the resources available to combat and prevent the black economy actively and effectively in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u110	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kärnä has already mentioned what I wanted to say to Mr Päivi Räsänen. Yes, the government takes the fight against the shadow economy very seriously. I think it is a little irresponsible that the opposition in this Chamber has argued that in some way the government is not interested in these matters. It's a whole chain. The police must have investigators to investigate serious financial crimes involving international connections, but in the same way we must also ensure that the Ministry of Justice's money is not lost in the prosecution and courts. Even prosecutors have become obsolete in the hands of cases that have been investigated, but there has been no time to take them to district courts and beyond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u111	Mr President! This previous debate noted these actions by the previous government. In fact, I would like to thank the previous Minister for Home Affairs, Räsä, who, in my opinion, was one of the best and, of course, the most long-term ministers in its government. He certainly did a very good job, within the resources and opportunities that were provided for him in that government. But I would also like to say here, in the interests of fairness, that this current government, too, has now returned to this supplement to the draft budget these appropriations for the informal economy, EUR 6.4 million. I consider it to be a very good solution, and that is what I am going to say here. This supplementary draft budget contains a lot of other appropriations in the section of the Ministry of the Interior, which will certainly increase the internal security of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u112	Madam President! In that sense, I must join the previous speaker in saying that it is a pity that there is Mr Räsänen here, because I myself have appreciated him as a politician and, in many respects, I agree with him, and he may have to take up more of this opposition criticism when it may have been more targeted even at others. But that's it. Mr Räsänen hoped that we in the government parties would focus on, for example, the grey economy, and that is what we have done: for example, in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, of which I am a member, we heard experts and, among other things, police experts, who said that 100,000 people will get a return on one person-year work and, roughly, 50 000 will be paid, which is 50000 net. That we heard them, and that is why our committee, too, gave this particular wish in its opinion that this money should be returned to the financial investigations. That it does not go that way that the government makes a presentation and we parliamentarians just sit nice, but we are actually trying to influence this economic situation. I also spoke about the need for sufficient resources to be made available in the financial investigations even at a later stage, and that is quite true. The other day, I was telling you about a meeting with a court judge from New York who sits in a lot of financial crime cases. He complained that at the moment the cases did not appear on his desk as much as before and the most obvious reason is that those cases are standing on the prosecutor's desk at the moment. Let's take this seriously. This is no place to play. That serious things are being decided on behalf of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u113	Mr President! In this context too, experts were consulted in the Audit Committee on the grey economy, and I can say that the work that has been done in Parliament and in the Audit Committee during the last parliamentary term has produced results. But as a more general observation, it could be said that yes, when reforms should be made here in Parliament in favour of employment and entrepreneurship, the magic words 'grey economy' are usually spelled out on the left that there is, as with all income, no need to make any reforms. It's not like that. Even in the shadow budget of the SDP, which was on a light basis in many ways, EUR 200 million was very lightly thrown away to finance the expenditure of their alternative. But it is important to note that there are a lot of resources in the black economy other than these financial crime resources, which came as an addition here, and in order to achieve efficiency in the black economy, they are more affordable, for example, by increasing the resources of the Tax Administration, of course. It is also important to consider different operating models, the possibilities of digitalisation in the black economy. And then international cooperation is very important. So the idea that the grey economy is just police work is obviously not the right one, and it is not the most effective way to combat the grey economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u114	Mr President! We do indeed have a representative of the opposition here, and this is going to be a bully in the workplace if we reproach him. And I, too, would like to thank Mr Päivi Räsä for what he has done and done excellently. The last season was just very difficult, and it only reminds me of this kind of traffic controller and police officer, when they say that the goal is to keep the level of traffic control in 2012 even after Pora III, and now if I from Rääkkylä have driven every weekend back to Helsinki, I have never seen a police car in between. If I drove from here in Helsinki to the Sevettijärvi bar up north and back, I wouldn't see any police patrols in the meantime. And this is what I am told by the truckers, who are in that traffic every day, that it is no longer the same as when the mobile police were in power. I do not know who will then be responsible for those Pora decisions. Apparently, no one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u115	Madam President! Of course, the political responsibility for those decisions lies with all those who made the decisions, including myself, and with the whole of Parliament, because, of course, these decisions were finally adopted by Parliament, and Parliament also directed the human resources for heavy traffic control. Indeed, they are set by majority decision-making, just the number of person-years per head that must remain under heavy traffic control and must remain at the level of 2012. That's how it was defined. As long as I was a minister, I supervised this, and I received reports from the Police Government that it survived. But now, of course, there is a new Minister for the Interior and civil servants from the Ministry of the Interior who are still to act on the decision of that Parliament. In other words, this restructuring of the police administration included precisely this requirement for Parliament, the highest state decision-maker, or a condition for maintaining the number of man-years of heavy traffic control. This is so exceptional that never before has a parliament, specifically a parliament, had such detailed police resources, even in the presence of a mobile police force. In fact, if we had maintained that mobile police structure, there would in any case have been a greater reduction in this number of man-years than is the case at present. So if we had that moving cop.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u116	Honored Speaker! This conversation has now gone into the police debate, and it is perhaps all right to discuss the police. It is positive that the government added 6.4 million to the fight against the shadow economy. It has been productive work, and it is right not to be spared. I also welcome the fact that the current Minister of Police, Minister Orpo, withdrew the plans of the Police Government to abolish the police stations in Riihimäki and Heinola. At the moment, we have changed quite quickly such a sense of everyday security for people. Yes, there is a lot of communication about different things, and one of the big things about it is that we have an extremely rapidly growing immigrant situation. Of course, the news in public must be taken seriously, it must be possible to talk about it without being labeled racist, or it is said that the whole group will be labeled when they are spoken about. You have to take those people's everyday concerns seriously. At some point I received a message that the arrival of the motorcycle gang in the former hall actually increased police visibility in a particular area and people were very happy in the end: there had been no police sighted for years, and then there was the police all the time. — — — — Well, this may have been a bit of a wink in the eye, but now the police need to be seen in these situations. We must ensure the safety of everyday life for everyone in Finland and also for those people who have come here for safety and security. There's a lot of excesses here, if you don't mind. Mr President! With regard to the mobile police, in brief: As former Minister Räsänen said, Parliament made strong records there, and perhaps at some point we should have a proper, thorough report to Parliament on what has happened since the closure of the traffic control police. I am convinced that Minister Orpo will also be prepared to move in a different direction if it turns out that the measures have been wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u117	Madam Speaker! Much has been said here about the grey economy, which is an important issue. It is possible to get more money for the state and to maintain our social activities by confiscating and obtaining criminal benefits for the state, but of course no rabbit money can be drawn from it, it cannot be something that binds the heads of the state budget together, so to speak. I may disagree with some of the Members that, in the fight against the shadow economy, I believe that action should be focused on the very serious economic crimes, massive, gross tax fraud, large-scale bankruptcy offences. During the last parliamentary term, a good job was done, but in some places in the fight against the shadow economy, there was another problem, namely bureaucracy. Yes, we must strike a balance in Finland with combating the black economy but not creating a terrible norm, huge obligations for our small entrepreneurs, most of whom, however, are quite honest. Mr President! If there were some opportunities for further preparation, I would still like to see those good financial investigators, specialised prosecutors, active courts — no more receipt inspectors running from one flower shop and barbecue stand to another to check whether the receipt was now being offered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u118	Madam President! It must be recognised that Minister Orpo and the present government are faced with a very difficult situation in which internal security is to be aligned. The influx of asylum seekers has increased the need for a foreign police force and, at the same time, inevitably consumes resources from other police activities. On the other hand, the economic situation continues to be very tense and very difficult. In these circumstances, the sense of security that Mr Heinonen also referred to must be maintained and the fight against the shadow economy must also continue. I agree with what has been said here that the fight against the black economy is not a mere police activity, although the police play a very important role in it. There is a need for a whole chain of authorities to act so that there are no bottlenecks, because the bottleneck in that chain may then, as it were, destabilise the other investments that have been made. In other words, we need the Tax Administration, we need Customs, we need the police and we need sufficient resources for the judicial authorities, in fact equal in volume, in order to be able to continue this fight against the black economy. Then I would like to raise the issue which I believe is very well opened up in this report by the Committee on Audit, which is now on the table, to improve this exchange of information. In other words, the government must also take measures to strengthen the exchange of information between the authorities, because it is a cost-effective way of stepping up the fight against the black economy. When the information goes better, you don't necessarily need that much of the resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u119	Madam President! I was unable to take the floor when the representative was present. Angle mentioned one of my favorite places, the Sevettijärvi Bar. It is indeed just as Mr Kulmala said that when you drive there, there are not many policemen on the road. As far as the internal security system is concerned, of course, it is an extremely important factor in the way in which this government manages to guarantee its everyday security, its sense of security also in these particularly sparsely populated and remote areas where it is also extremely important. We have practical examples of what happens when police activity stops in some areas, what effects and consequences it will have. At this point, people take its law and control into their own hands. It cannot be regarded as any sort of goal in a civilised society. When I was mayor of Enontekio before my election here in Parliament, we had a situation where the last police officer was taken out of the municipality. This situation went on, I think, for about four years. There was only one person in the investigation, and he too was to be pulled away. Finally, because of pressure, we got a police patrol back in the municipality. What happened again? It was found that with a huge heart rate, a huge amount of drunk driving went up there, for example. This does not say that in some way more crimes have been committed. But since that control was not targeted at the area, people felt that it was now possible to do and relax and snort as they wanted. In other words, this public order and security in particularly sparsely populated and remote areas should always be borne in mind when internal security is discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u120	Mr President! That is the kind of thing that came to mind when we talked about that disclosure of information, that it often becomes a problem, as we now have a variety of projects to improve the internal and external security of the state, the acquisition of information and the prying of information. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have already had to consider these data protection issues a few times in my short, few months' parliamentary career. If such a right is to be given by law, then it must always be well identified there or there must be very necessary information as requested. Of course, many times it comes with this particular problem of data protection. Under no circumstances must it be an obstacle to not taking those things forward. But here we see the thing that may now go a little beyond this — or I do not know if it will, because the Constitution will guide all our activities — that I sometimes find that the Constitution even prevents us from making sensible and good legislative projects. But one thing it would be good to note to facilitate the flow of information when it is not necessarily about the grey economy is the consent of the person concerned. As an official, I used it very much. Where the right of access is not sufficient, the interested parties are very happy to give their consent to the request for such information. That's when you get that information, and that's when it speeds it up. Just in the case of the supervision of entrepreneurs and so on, I do not think that a proper entrepreneur would deny such an exchange of information so that he would not have to provide. It is always good to remember that the consent of the person concerned replaces such provisions. It means we're forgetting when we're building too complex a set of rules. But that's not going to help with this gray economy right now, because they want to keep it a secret.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u121	Madam President! I would like to comment on that example raised by Mr Kärnä, in which I was also involved in the decision. After all, police activity must not cease in any area. No matter where the police are physically located, there must be police activity everywhere in Finland where we have people at all. I would like to return to the point — in fact, when Mrs Heinonen raised these police stations in Riihimäki and Heinola, for example, and the fact that although it was rumored that they could be on the list of closures, they were now not, fortunately, being discontinued from the ministry’s point of view — that during the last period, too, when these space cost savings were part of this administrative reform of the police force, which sought to mobilise those resources specifically for the police field activities, I left it, and that was also the line of the ministry and the government that the police station network would not be reduced and, in particular, in Eastern Finland and Northern Finland, that station network would be maintained. Instead, the space savings were made to these large police stations built in the 21st century, where the use of the space was as if intensified, for example for the Hämeenlinna Sword Castle, where the space costs were calculated. I hope that Minister Orpo will also stick to the principle that the police station network will be kept dense, because it is also an essential part of the public's sense of security. That there's a police sign on the wall of the building and they know that the police station is nearby.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u122	Mr President! It was an excellent thing that Mr Räsänen raised these police stations here, because at the moment five small police stations are being shut down from the Eastern Finland Police Department: Mäntyharju, Juva, Siilinjärvi, Outokumpu and Ilomantsi. For example, it is about 80 kilometres from Ilomants to the centre of Joensuu. It is a very long time to wait there in Ilomants for the help of a police officer or someone else, even now a border guard, when someone is coming through that door with an axe. In my opinion, as we have just heard from Mr Räsäs, these closures of police stations are no longer in line with the drill III, but they are something else. And when this police station is shut down in Ilomants, there is such a vacuum of security. The police are simply no longer on an emergency mission. Currently there are two police officers investigating and questioning crimes, but they would probably be transferred to Joensuu as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u123	Madam President! I came to the gym and heard there was a lively discussion about the police service. Mr Räsänen has just pointed out that if police activity ceases in a region, it does not mean that it ends, but that there must also be strong communication in such a way that citizens know that the police can still be reached in those emergencies. In a situation where these have been done in the past, and hopefully we will not have to do so much in the years to come, but realism is another, we must remember that communication to the people that this overall security will be maintained in such a way that we can trust that we, you, all of you, will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this was a separate report from the Inspectorate and I hope that we will stick to that. However, it does not prevent opinions from being shared.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u125	Madam President! At this stage, I regret that I have to take this floor by responding to this very important police debate. I cannot help but say that Mr Kulmala raised the issue of small police services and that somewhere there is a situation where the police would be about 80 kilometres away: Unfortunately, in Lapland this situation is commonplace. For example, from the Enontekiö police department, Heta, it is about 170 kilometres from Kilpisjärvi to a busy tourist centre in the same municipality. It's an infinite length of time to wait. Response times often rise to several hours in the police. Of course, it's obvious, like a representative. Mr Räsänen also pointed out that police action must not be stopped anywhere, but if the response time of the authorities is too long, then the public will lose confidence and the police will not be called because we know that aid is too far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u126	Mr President! I would like to follow the President's very proper advice and attach my comments specifically to the Government's Annual Report for 2014, which is therefore the first year of this Pora reform. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that, when the reform of the administrative structure of the police was carried out and outlined the various austerity measures it took, these cost calculations were carefully reviewed and it was stated that the closures of these small police stations, which are now listed here too, would not have resulted in very significant cost savings. That benefit is very small. So definitely the greater benefits were achieved and achieved by reducing its use of space and increasing the space efficiency of these large police stations. That is why I hope that the government will continue to stick to this, and I hope that Minister Orpo will stop the preparations that exist in this police station network, because it was a very clear starting point that it does not make sense for its sense of security and sound economy to go down that police station network. I am very much in favour of those who have expressed this view.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u127	The 26th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u128	The 27th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u129	For table setting, the 28th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u130	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u131	For table setting, the 30th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u132	The 31st item is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u133	The 32nd item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-01-ps-73.u134	For table setting, the 33rd item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 2 December 2015.
