ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the referral to the Committee on Finance. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on Friday, 2 October 2015 and will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussion is also allowed on points 4 to 28 of the order of business. The debate is now continuing in the administrative field of the Ministry of Defence, and I give a presentation to Minister Niinistö. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u2	Madam President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the weakened security environment in our neighbourhood has been taken into account in the preparation of the defence budget. Similarly, the government has seen as a clear guideline the recommendations of the parliamentary study group chaired by Mr Kanerva, the chairman of the current Committee on Defence, and, as is well known, this will mean an increase of EUR 50 million next year in appropriations for material procurement. In accordance with the Government Programme, the number of reserve refresher exercises will be considered sufficient, which will mean training 18000 reservists next year. It is the same level as this year, and this level is satisfactory. This is the level the government has wanted to hold on to. Similarly, the government wants to secure the preconditions for voluntary training and self-training in the reserve, even though some EUR 400000 is proposed for the support of defence organisations, unfortunately. Mr President! Perhaps the greatest public attention has recently been given to the future of international crisis management. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland will continue its active participation in crisis management. This is despite the fact that under the Government Programme, military crisis management funding will be cut by a few million euros. Of the military crisis management appropriations, the Defence Administration accounts for EUR 37 million, with a decrease of EUR 2 million. In my opinion, the share of expenditure in the Ministry of Defence's section of GDP forecast for 2016 is noteworthy. That is 1.37 per cent, compared with 1.29 this year. The operational objectives of the Finnish Defence Administration next year will be defence policy, a high-performance defence system, a secure society and strengthening international security. These are the objectives we will achieve at the proposed level of funding. It also enables the Defence Forces to maintain operational performance targets at 2015 level. High-quality military training includes 35 off-road days and 2.5 trainers per team, already mentioned in refresher training, i.e. 18000 people per year, Hornet flight hours, 8900 per year, and battleships standby days, 1400 per year. The defence budget totals almost EUR 2.9 billion, with an estimated growth of over EUR 227 million, or 9 per cent. Of this growth, however, two thirds are moving items and only one third are actual growth. The Ministry of Defence has a total budget of EUR 386 million, with an increase of EUR 31 million. In fact, the Ministry's budget will fall by around EUR 900000, as the expenditure on value added in the Ministry's section will increase by almost EUR 32 million. Value added expenditure increases as a result of increased purchasing services and material purchases. The Defence Forces budget totals EUR 2.46 billion, with an increase of EUR 198 million. The defence force's budget will be more or less the intended and tried-out principle next year that one third of the appropriations will go to staff, one third to activities and one third to materials. Material procurement appropriations will increase by EUR 177 million, which is 42% more than this year. The planned increase of EUR 50 million by the Parliamentary Monitoring Group has been mentioned in this increase and the mandate to use the items to be transferred is EUR 127 million. And what do we get for this money? The most significant item of expenditure remains the updating of the life cycle of the Hornet fighters. Other major procurements include strategic ammunition, management systems procurement, Leopard 2A6 Battle Tank acquisition and development of the Defence Forces logistics system. All these purchases are scheduled for several years. The Defence Forces' operating budget will increase by EUR 23 million. This growth is required, among other things, by an ex ante cost adjustment, the restructuring of rental costs, moving items from military equipment procurement and wage checks. Madam President! Finally, there is the point: the compulsory military system is sometimes accused of being costly by its opponents. That is certainly not the case, because the cost of training and maintenance for those in charge of military service, excluding the salaries of staff, is EUR 174 million, which is only 6% of the total defence budget. This can be considered a cost-effective activity. General military service is a viable solution. It's the backbone of our defense solution. The draft defence budget for next year will guarantee universal military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u3	Then let's start the debut. I ask the participants to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u4	Mr President! The lines were right in everything that the Minister of Defence has mentioned here. I just want to underline how we are currently living in a changing security environment, and Finland has every reason to prepare itself for the rapid changes that occur in the security environment. In addition to the fact that Finland must always take care of its own defence, it is also reasonable to see that Finland does not always have to do everything alone. In that sense, international cooperation is necessary to strengthen the credibility of Finland’s defence and to bear its responsibilities. There's more than one option: The first of these is, of course, the European Union, whose resolutions do provide the basis for closer cooperation, and there is a more convincing situation that can be achieved through the use of creativity. The second is NATO, from which the Government Programme defines the basic guidelines on how to deal with it. The third is Nordefco, which — slightly from the various security solutions in the Nordic Region — provides support for: But the fourth and most up-to-date... ( President MariaLohela : Representative Kanerva,now in ajoined place. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u7	Mr President! Of course, the positive thing about this budget is that it is carrying out a proposal for an increase of 50 million for our procurement by the working group chaired by Mr Kanerva. That is, of course, not the answer to the major acquisitions of the Navy and the Air Force, which will mainly come in the next decade, but will be a matter of separate funding. Here the Minister stated that universal military service is the backbone of our defence. It really is, and we must take very good care of it in every way. One example of this is that Sweden, which has driven it down in due course, is already wondering in its own sphere how it could be restored to the foundation of the Swedish defence system. The times we live in clearly speak for the Finnish system. It has demonstrated its strength all the time, and especially now that the operating environment is in such a bad state as it is at present, the spine needs to be taken good care of. My question, Minister — the question of the operational budget, which is directly linked to the general compulsory military service and its conditions — is: can we continue on this path, which is now in next year’s budget, or should we ensure that, in the coming years, they will be at a level that does not need to compromise, as may be the case at present, as is the case with the need to compromise, such as repetition exercises?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u8	Madam President! In addition to these new operating expenditure savings, many concerns and questions have been raised by the pension reform and its impact on the military pension system. According to experts, the consequences of the proposed changes cannot be offset without significant additional costs compared to the current system. According to experts, 600 new posts should be created to cover the need for wartime, which would increase the cost of the Defence Forces by around EUR 40 million per year. The proposed changes to the military pension scheme have even been said to undermine the basis of the defence solution. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö how he sees this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u9	Mr President! First of all, it has to be said that in recent years the military has been through a hard time, that is to say, it has come down and the garrison has been shut down. It is a good thing now that we have a few ten million extras to compensate for these deteriorations. As the Minister mentioned, there will be large purchases for land, sea and air in the future, and then he also mentioned this reduction in crisis management appropriations. I would like to ask: is it intended to put an end to crisis management abroad in some areas, or how? And as we know, this separate NATO investigation is coming and so is the defence report and then the intelligence law on this military matter, of course. But I would like to pay particular tribute to the Minister for his hard work in making the Hornniemi area available to the Defence Forces at that border with Russia. Thank you very much — you have done a good job in this area!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u10	Madam President! The military is facing some of the biggest acquisitions in history. The planned life cycle of the Air Force Hornet equipment will end by the end of next decade. In addition to this, the Navy faces the Fleet 2020 project, which aims to replace the obsolete naval combat equipment in the 2020s. Six of the current naval battleships will end in the mid-2020s. The plans are for the construction of four ships which, once completed, would form the hull of the maritime defence. The planning phase of the project is scheduled for the next three years, but the fleet 2020 project is not reflected in next year's budget. Finnish shipyards and other industries have shipbuilding expertise. Domestic employment and industry must be supported in the procurement of the Defence Forces, especially when we have a high level of expertise in this area. Care for the highest degree of homeliness is also justified from the perspective of security of supply. How will the funding of the Fleet 2020 project be managed? Will the highest degree of domesticism be taken into account in the purchase of ships?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u11	Mr President! You, Minister of Defence Niinistö, have recently hosted the Swedish Minister of Defence's visit to Finland. I would have been interested to hear about the conclusions you drew from it, in the spirit that Mrs Kanerva also mentioned here that it is very important for Finland to cooperate with the Nordic countries, to cooperate with Sweden, certainly to cooperate in materials, to cooperate in training and so on. Did this come up with any new ideas during this visit? Another question which you have taken an active stand on during your political career is the place and service of Swedish-speaking garrisons. You have raised Dragsvik several times on a stick, and at the same time when you talk about the importance of this military service and the importance of motivation, I am a little concerned about the fact that the garrison of one language group and their training are being declared in this way separately. I would be interested to hear what you think about this at the moment: what will be the fate of Dragsvik in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u12	Mr President! Minister Niinistö, just a few days ago you gave a decision on the preparation of legislation on military intelligence, and that goes hand in hand with this civil inquiry, the related legislation. These are now linked, at least, to the fact that at least telecommunications intelligence has very strong links with both the military and the civilian side. In particular, this decision on the establishment of fundamental and human rights states that the constitutionality of the provisions to be prepared will be carefully examined. The direct question to the Minister: how do you intend to ensure that these rights are safeguarded during the preparatory work of this law, and then how do you answer the question which has already been raised at Lex Nokia's time that who is supervising the supervisor?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u13	Mr President! Voluntary defence work plays an important role in society and Finland. It is part of the overall defence and also plays an important role in maintaining the will to defend the country. Under the budget item of the PLM, support for the activities of National Defence Organisations will be quite a cut for next year. It includes a one-off reduction of EUR 150000, and then a saving of EUR 250000, a total of EUR 400000, meaning that the total amount of the item will be reduced by around 20 %. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence: what will be the practical impact of this cut on the activities of national defence organisations, and how will it be divided between the various organisations?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u14	Madam President! It is good that the government recognises the change in the security environment and indeed that national defence is being invested in this country, the backbone of which is universal military service and the wartime forces based on reserve people. The refresher training days shall be kept at the necessary level, flight hours, day-a-days and day-a-days shall also be at an adequate level. Thank you to the government for your good preparation. Of course, concern lies precisely in these appropriations for voluntary defence, that is, national defence organisations. They are an important part of our defence, and this EUR 400,000 cut would hurt. The Minister must be asked about this — since this seems to be going in the same pattern again — that the Ministry of Defence has apparently proposed this, the Minister of Finance has cut it off and now it is in Parliament again, and this is a budget initiative by the government parties, is this a sensible way of building our defence budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u15	Madam President! At the request of the police, the military will provide the police with official assistance. Assistance can usually be provided by sending personnel with their equipment to a police-led operation. However, the police continue to have tasks that require, for example, light amplifiers and other electronics, but not specifically defence personnel. The police acquire from their own budget framework the same equipment that the Defence Forces have stored on shelves — as a wish that they never have to be used. However, the police are forced to use these devices in operational use almost daily. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: does the Ministry have the capacity to hand over these stored equipment to the police with more so-called long receipts so that the police do not have to obtain the same blue equipment from their own meagre framework?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u16	Let us take the floor again from the representatives of Vikman, Heinäluoma and Aalto, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u17	Mr President! Next year's budget will include an increase of EUR 50 million in defence equipment procurement, in line with the report of the Defence Parliamentary Study Group. That's a good thing. Unfortunately, however, the defence budget also includes new operating expenditure savings and permanent expenditure savings decided during the previous parliamentary term. In its draft budget, the government has proposed a cut of approximately EUR 400000, or about a fifth, for voluntary defence and education appropriations. I would like to ask the Minister: how can this cut in appropriations be adapted to the record of the Government Programme which you have said you will implement? The Government Programme states that the preconditions for voluntary exercises and self-training of the reserve are secured. Isn't that a contradiction between words and deeds?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u18	Mr President! Indeed, I should like to join in thanking the government and the Minister for Defence for carrying out the valuable parliamentary work carried out during the last parliamentary term and for taking forward its proposals. It is also good that the Minister has a very clear idea of the importance of defending his own country and of the general military duty as a foundation for making this defence possible. However, international cooperation is needed and, if properly implemented, it will also strengthen our own defence. I would like to raise two issues. The second concerns international crisis management. There has been a lot of concern that the government is withdrawing from the world, and it also affects the image of Finland. Then, too, this long tradition of ours from 56 C.E. appeared to be under threat at one point. President Niinistö promised that Finland would increase its investment in UN missions. Has this been taken into account in the framework, and does the Ministry of Defence have plans here? The second concerns cooperation with Sweden. There is now a government and a minister of defence in Sweden who are ready to take it forward. It obviously also requires legislative changes so that we can have a common submarine defence capability, for example. Is this the case in the Ministry of Defence in preparation for this cooperation with Sweden to be longer?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u19	Madam President! My question was specifically about the legislative project on military intelligence, on which Mr Mustajärvi commented, and I am happy to hear the answer. But can you at the same time, Minister, also respond to the timetable for this? As far as the cost of military service is concerned, it is also good to remember that when you are in the army grey, you are not working or studying, and it also costs money so that it is good to take these costs more into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u20	Then Minister Niinistö, three minutes from the scene. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u21	Mr President! Firstly, Mrs Kanerva rightly said that we must always look after our own defence, and Mrs Heinäluoma repeated this. International cooperation is essential, and that is what this government intends to do, both within the framework of the EU, NATO and Nordefconk. Particular attention will indeed be paid to cooperation with Sweden: cooperation and confidence will be increased and we will see how far we can get. This level of agreement is not excluded, but it will not be in the very near future. Mr Kääriäinen, for his part, stated that the future strategic major acquisitions of the Marine and Air Force will be made with separate funding — it is just like that — and in connection with this, Mr Rinne asked about the acquisition of the Navy, this Fleet 2020 project: EUR 260 million has been earmarked for the launch of the project under the 2019 framework. The degree of domesticity of this project is hopefully high, and there are good conditions for this, because in Finland our ships need, for example, capabilities such as ice-going and mine-making capabilities, and on that basis we are already able to bring this activity home, bearing in mind the fact that these ships must then be able to be maintained in Finland for reasons of security of supply. Mr Kääriäinen also intervened in this general compulsory military service and in Sweden's efforts to correct the situation. But we are not, this year, haggling over rehearsing exercises, and I want to make it clear that, even if these operating costs are to be saved, we have not wanted to compromise this level of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u24	Mr President! This new intelligence legislation, which is to be implemented, has recently come to light. In that regard, I ask the Minister when it is mentioned that there should also be parliamentary control and apparently parliamentary preparation, and how he sees that this should happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u25	Madam Speaker! I would have continued this question raised by Mr Salolainen. In recent years, in fact, in almost the last few decades, it has been recognised that it is precisely the widespread cyber attack that effectively paralyzes any society. To that end, there are firewalls, anti-virus programmes, access control, and this is something quite different from what has now been discussed in public about this prevention of terrorist acts, it is something else. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks about who decides what national security is and when it is threatened, and how to ensure that the means in place are proportionate to the threat, i.e. what is this decision-making process, what has been thought about taking this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u26	Madam President! I think it is important that the Minister appreciates universal military service and states that it is a solution that works in Finland. I myself am also one of those supporters. It was also important to clarify that the reserve refresher exercises remain at the current level. I am also concerned about the questions that have been raised here about defence organisations and military pensions, and I hope that this is a positive Christmas present, as the Minister has said. But the real question I ask the Minister is military crisis management and international operations. What does the Minister think, will the current resources be sufficient if there are even bigger crises in the world, and does Finland have the capacity to send its own peacekeepers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u27	Madam President! A number of speeches have rightly taken into account how the security policy situation in Europe has changed. I dare say that some EU countries do not look at Finland, which has not gone with the winds of the world in the wrong way, but has maintained it as the foundation stone of our defence, namely general military service and through it, I would see, including the will to defend the country. I would like to ask you, Minister for Defence, about these appropriations. When the previous government cut the defence budget by EUR 200 million and this government quite rightly corrects this error by adding EUR 227 million, how do you see when concerns have been raised among citizens in this security policy situation, is that enough money for an independent and credible defence? As a second question, I would like to briefly ask the Minister when you have spoken in public about group savings: what are they, and how much are these group savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u28	Madam President! Representative Lapintie here raised cyber issues and firewalls. If this were so simple, this country would certainly be defended by firewalls, but that is simply not the case. In addition to cyber issues, information warfare, disinformation, such things are forms of expanding warfare. It is difficult to even know when the war has begun and who is the enemy at all. There are also examples of this in Europe and the neighbouring regions of Europe. I'm going to ask the Minister about this hybrid war. There are only a few lines of mention here in the draft budget that there is a need for a higher level of preparedness for hybrid warfare and for combat resistance. What does that mean in practice, and how will the Defence Forces take these matters into account in their activities in the years to come?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u29	Madam President! One of the objectives of the Government Programme is to promote equality, and in the Defence Forces, too, this issue is apparently well-managed and progressing. I would have asked when this budget book states that the aim is also to increase the proportion of women in crisis management: how will this happen, and would the Minister have some advice on how women could increase their knowledge in the field of defence at all? My second question relates to the condition of the garrison. Since the 1980s, the physical capacity of the garrisonmen weakened until the beginning of the 21st century, and there have been some very unfortunate headlines that physical condition is falling. In what way is the situation currently under control, and how does this maintenance of physical condition in the Defence Forces, and especially in the military, come about?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u30	Mr President! The objective of increasing the number of women in crisis management operations is an excellent one. However, it requires an increasing number of women to perform military service as a route to military crisis management operations. I'd like to ask the minister: How is it for the project that the letter of invitation was sent to the entire female age group, which was the subject of experiments that were very successful? How is it for this letter of invitation to be extended to the whole country while the military service remains voluntary for women?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u31	Then let us take the representatives of Heinäluoma and Savola, and then the Minister's answer, if it was better than 3 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u32	Mr President! In fact, my speech is a repeat of the previous speech because the Minister did not have time to reply. The first point concerns international crisis management. It is really important for Parliament to know whether the government intends to act in accordance with the President's promise, i.e. that: Finland will increase its contribution to international crisis management in relation to what was said here before the summer holidays. The second question relates to this cooperation with Sweden. You said that there was enough disputing, but now many projects depend on whether the necessary legislative changes are made. Let me take the example of submarine control. The amateur thinks that it would be justifiable to cooperate in a difficult area, Finland and Sweden, that we would be prepared to support each other's submarine defence and the extraction of underwater objects or moving vessels. But that also requires legislative changes. What is the Minister's position on these issues, and will the government be taking them forward as long as we have a very good government in Sweden?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u33	Mr President! Cooperation with Sweden is certainly important and we must develop our own legislation and cooperation in such a way that Finland and Sweden are able to support each other in the defence of the country. As far as the Navy and the Air Force are concerned, this will certainly be easier, but I would like to ask the Minister's assessment of how we could intensify this cooperation on the Army's side and how we could also get more troops from the war on the basis of this voluntary field and our military reserves. What are the plans for this? I would also like to ask about the letter from the reservers that left last winter, and 900,000 Finns received it. What kind of feedback did this letter become in its entirety, and what kind of impact assessments have been made in the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u34	Then Minister Niinistö, and three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u35	Mr President! Mr Salolainen asked about parliamentary preparation in relation to this intelligence legislation. At the very least, committees are being informed. Mr Lapintie asked, or told, about this view of the threat of a major cyber attack and who decides what to do with this intelligence legislation in the name of national security. I must say that this work is only in its early stages, but this is where the working groups of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and also the Ministry of Justice work together, and we will certainly return to this issue. Mr Pakkanen asked whether the money in crisis management would be sufficient if new operations were to be set up, and this was accompanied by Mr Heinäluoma's question, which unfortunately I did not have time to answer the previous time. Up to now, these new operations have been financed by an additional budget due to their difficult predictive nature. The latest example is this Mediterranean EUNAVFOR Med mission to Libya, which will have to be managed with an additional budget. In that sense, the promises of the President of the Republic will be fulfilled. Mr Elo asked if an increase in the appropriations was enough. I must say that, first of all, it is impossible to close the cut in the previous government during this parliamentary term. Now, of this EUR 227 million, only one third is so-called new money and two thirds is indeed the transfer appropriations previously allocated. However, this has to be done and we will carry out the obligations of an independent and credible defence. Representative Elo also asked about Group savings. I have used this word, we can also talk about operating expenditure savings. They will amount to EUR 15 million for the Defence Forces next year and EUR 1 million for the Ministry of Defence. Among other things, it has savings targets in terms of reducing wage slips. Mr Kiuru spoke about the hybrid war, and the intention is that we will strengthen our preparedness during this parliamentary term. We will learn lessons from the crisis in Ukraine, for example, as regards strengthening preparedness. We are going to bring legislation into the Parliament regarding the use of conscripts and reservists. Mr Juvonen and Mr Vikman asked about the role of women in crisis management, and Mr Vikman rightly said that the voluntary military service gives women the opportunity to participate in crisis management tasks. There is certainly still room for improvement in communication, so this letter of invitation was a good example of how we have received more information for women. Congressman Savola asked about the Reservist letter. The feedback was excellent, and one can playfully say that it was an information war conducted by Finland. We were able to signal to the world that we have 900,000 men in military service and also women.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u36	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u37	Mr President! The question for the Minister of Defence is that, when five different NATO partner countries were given a special programme of cooperation at the Wales Summit, in order to advance this international cooperation, intensify it and exploit it, Finland among the five countries together with Sweden, do we now have some kind of clear programme of steps that Finland will benefit from this programme so that we can take concrete measures to enable this programme and use this happy hour for our benefit?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u38	Mr President! The Government Programme states that the Government will take care of the internal conditions for Finland’s external security — quite verbatim in this way. I am interested to know, Minister, what all this means in the functioning of the current government and all that is on the move, let us say, by subject, which is responsible for these conditions. Of course there is legislation, there are budget solutions, but what else is there that responds to this particular sentence of the government programme? Is that the responsibility of the Security Committee, or what is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u39	Mr President! In practice, the whole of the 2010s has been a thin line, as far as the refresher exercises are concerned. Fortunately, the refresher exercises are now expanding again. Is it recognised in the Defence Forces that during this scarce line of work, when the link between trainers and reservists has been extremely thin, there has been a shortage of skills among trainers, and is it the case that training starts from training trainers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u40	Madam President! It is very good that that message from the Kanerva Group has been taken seriously and that more is now being invested in material procurement in a tight economic situation. It's necessary. I am concerned about this cutback in the support of voluntary defence organisations. It is proposed to be cut by 20% and is a great deal in voluntary defence work. It is good that refresher training days and off-road days are not tampered with, they remain at the 2015 level. The Defence Forces’ training activities — refresher exercises and voluntary national defence — require training areas and shooting ranges. For example, I am deeply concerned about the area of Hollolan Hälvälä and I am now asking the Minister for Defence: in order to maintain the level of voluntary defence, we will ensure that these training areas and shooting ranges are within a reasonable distance where exercises are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u41	Mr President! I will continue to catch salmon when the situation is that there have been a wide range of projects in this national cooperation over the years, but everything seems to suggest that what is important at the moment is what can be done in this cooperation with Sweden. It has clearly shown that, in order to move forward to that next stage, legislative changes would also be needed, for example with regard to the tasks of the Defence Forces. For example, as long as there is no such assistance in the tasks of the Defence Forces except in crisis management operations at international level, we will not be able to reach a situation with Sweden where something more demanding can be done together, from which I took, for example, this submarine prevention, which I consider to be a sensible project for both countries. When it is demanding and quite resource-intensive, it could be done together. Nor does it go against anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u44	Mr President! I myself do profess to be a representative of the old school: Finland's defence policy must be based on general military duty, defence of the entire country and military non-alignment. I do not really know how to weigh this general military duty in money, but if you go down that road — it seems to me to be obvious — you can ask how expensive it would be for both the euro and the NATO military politically. But some time ago, it must have been early in the summer, the general government and also some politicians came out and said that this new acquisition of fighters cost some EUR 5 to 10 billion. For example, if someone had brought in a social sector reform project or an employment programme and had asked how much it would cost and had replied that between EUR 5 and 10 billion, then a huge fish bazaar would have started on how the estimate could be a 5 billion throw. Is this the case, then, that when this price is sold to politicians, the final price will be between EUR 15 and EUR 20 billion?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u45	Madam President! I will take up a little of what Mr Mustajärvi once again said, namely new fighter acquisitions. The current Hornets of Finland have been acquired in the last few countries, and they are in the process of getting rid of them in the first countries. I am a little surprised that in many control countries it has been possible to increase the operating time of these Hornets very significantly by extending the life cycle. And then, when I looked at the preliminary report of the fighter project, for example, it was actually constantly ignoring the questions of what is happening to the Finnish defence industry, how possibly to deal with the maintenance and repair of new fighters and, above all, with the rules of thumb, the purchase price is only about 30 per cent of the total price. Is life-cycle costs taken into account? Can you promise me that these matters will be well thought out and taken into account in further studies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u46	Mr President! In 2012, Finland joined the Ottawa Convention banning anti-personnel mines, and in this context it was agreed to acquire replacement capabilities, which amounted to EUR 200 million. The purpose was to acquire artillery equipment, fan charges, night vision devices, drones, etc. You have spoken quite critically about this Ottawa agreement, Minister, and for that reason there must have been some political reasons for you to start a new investigation. This is a direct quote from Helsingin Sanomat when you had given a speech at the summer meeting of the Parliamentary Group: 'the work to clarify the development of the weapons system,which does not conflict with the Ottawa Agreement. a new performance to replace mine horror with new innovations." You were talking about the "new remote-activated minefields." What, then, is this mystical performance to which you refer, and with what money would it possibly be obtained?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u47	Mr President! National defense is heavily on military duty. This reform of our defence power has been well carried through and the proposals made by Mr Kanerva's group have been included in next year's budget for the first time. Now there will be EUR 50 million, and it will continue for the next three years, so I welcome it. But I would ask Minister of Defence Niinistö when, before your term of office, you spoke of the need to carry out a NATO inquiry into our possible future international alliance and their pros and cons: is this now on the line?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u48	Mr President! In addition to EUNAVFOR Med, Finland participates in other military and civilian operations in the Middle East and Africa by some 400 soldiers. One month ago, in its immigration policy activities, the government said that the planning and targeting of EU crisis management activities should take into account the impact of increasing immigration on European security as well. At that time 10,000 refugees had arrived in Finland; today’s balance is 20,000. Minister Niinistö, what opportunities and capabilities do you and your administrative sector have to deal with this problem if it becomes a problem? Now the situation is that there are a lot of angry young men in the country, both foreign and domestic — neither the guilty party nor the other party. And once the police's resources have been reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u49	Madam President! It is a good thing and necessary that the government has invested in the defence of the country and also in the procurement of materials, so that they are made as far as possible by means of domestic forces. It's really important. My question is about the same subject as Mrs Kääriäinen, i.e. the internal conditions of external security, which I understand mean defence of the country as a whole and comprehensive preparedness: Is it now necessary, Minister, in the current situation, to re-evaluate the activities of the authorities, cooperation between the authorities, security of supply and the management of entities in relation to previous and previous decisions, when the situation in the world is what it is? Of course, this has to do with energy, medicine and food, for example, security of supply. Is there such an assessment going on, and how do you judge it to be necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u50	Representatives Rinne and Savola, and then the Minister's closing statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u51	Madam President! From the point of view of promoting this digitalisation, it is very important that citizens feel confident that the communications secret of the telecommunications network will remain. Today, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we had an expert consultation on this inquiry into the telecommunications network, and now, if I have correctly understood your reply, you said in some way in relation to this question that the relevant committees will at least be informed of this issue. Today, when those officials were heard in that Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was very clear that this is a matter of scale which requires joint parliamentary preparation before the actual legislative proposals are made. Let me ask you straight: are you in favour of parliamentary preparation on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u52	Madam President! It has been a pleasure to listen to this debate on defence. It is a good thing that we have something in common across government and opposition borders. We should thank the opposition for a very constructive debate on this issue. The fact that we have very parliamentaryly prepared things for this last period, the Kanerva Group, and also this change in the security environment that we have here in Europe and in the neighbouring regions, will certainly make it easy for us to take these things forward together. Defence is part of our stable foreign and security policy. I hope that this good spirit of cooperation will continue beyond this. In the field of defence in particular, we face major questions: Fleet 2020 and, among other things, the replacement of the Hornets. Big financial issues that we need to work together to resolve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u53	Minister Niinistö, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u54	Madam President! The representative, Mr Kanerva, started with a question regarding the recent meeting in Wales and the advanced partner countries, including Finland. The question was legitimate: do we have clear objectives? It's been a while, and a lot hasn't happened yet. The programme is under way, and that is one of the things I have discussed with my Swedish colleague. Of course, when you're in a so-called gold pig club like this, you have to take all the benefits out of it. Mr Kääriäinen was with me in Smolna preparing a foreign and security policy programme for the Government Programme, and there was indeed this brilliant phrase about the internal conditions for Finland's external security, and Mrs Leppä also drew attention to this in her own speech. It is indeed a multi-point missile, in other words, in many ways we are trying to influence: legislation, budget and so on. And security of supply is also an important factor. It is worth understanding that we are different from other countries at EU level. We are, in a way, an island here, we need to be able to invest more in our own security of supply. In addition to these internal conditions of external security, there is this recent avalanche of asylum seekers, which is also linked to this issue. Mr Kivelä asked about the refresher exercises, referred to the narrow line, and the question was whether the lack of skills among the trainers had arisen. And it really looks like it, the staff has been on a lot lately. I have travelled around the garrison and heard feedback from representatives of staff organisations about the fact that we are in a tight position. This year there were 18,000 refresher exercises, while in the previous three years there were 5,000 to 600,000 refresher exercises, so it is clear that there has been a shortage of skills, not only among the reserve but also among the trainers. I hope that this will now be settled, even if the difficult situation is that more than 2000 posts in the Defence Forces were removed in the reform of the Defence Forces. But maybe practice will help in this regard. Mr Jokinen asked about the training areas in connection with the voluntary defence of the country and specifically mentioned the area of Hollolan Hälvälä, and this matter is currently being investigated. I have asked the Chief Staff about their position on this matter. It is clear that we need to have sufficient training areas for the reservists, and I will find out what the fate of this Hälvälä will be in the future. Mr Heinäluoma, on the other hand, has very persistently asked about cooperation with Sweden. I haven't tried to dodge it. As far back as the last parliamentary term, legislation has been prepared or this legislative amendment has been considered, inter alia, as a result of this case of submarine hunting, and this work is to be continued by this government. There are many other issues, such as the use of each other's air force bases, the use of naval ports, which are to be done in the future. An example of them a couple of weeks ago in Baana 2015 the Swedish JAS Gripen landed at a Finnish road base near Rovaniemi. In my opinion, it was a good example of this intensified cooperation, which has to be overcome by these legal problems. Congressman Mustajärvi asked about NATO's price. There's a NATO investigation going on. This also relates to Mr Suutari's question. As part of the report on foreign and security policy, as part of its preparation, a NATO study will be carried out. This was my wish during the last parliamentary term, and in this respect it would be coming true. Representative Mustajärvi and representative Aalto also paid attention to the price of Hornet's successor project, and of course life-cycle costs, as always in all Defence Forces procurements, should be taken into account. The extension of the life cycle has been examined in this report by General Puranen, the previous commander of the Air Force, drawn up by a preliminary study group on the Hornet follow-up project. It was completed in June and found to be very expensive. Among other things, there are differences in this area, such as that the Hornets of Switzerland, which also uses the F-18 Hornet equipment, originally had a titanium frame, so they can withstand consumption much better than the Finnish machines. If the President still permits, I will also answer these last few questions. Congressman Wallin asked about the Ottawa deal. Once we had joined it, we had a bit of a lack of performance, such as the regional impact and the mine terror, and I have hoped that this study would be launched. There is not much to tell yet, but I am confident that innovation in the domestic industry will be able to correct this performance. Mr Tolppanen asked about the impact of immigration on security: what can the Defence Forces do? We have military observers in Mali, for example, and we will then take part in this EUNAVFOR Med mission, which is intended to prevent the work of human smugglers. Of course, the odds are limited, but here in Finland, the Defence Forces are prepared to provide official assistance if asked to do so. Mr Rinne asked about this information intelligence and parliamentary preparation, and this is, of course, the case that, if there is such a state of will, this should be discussed with the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. There is no reason to hide anything here, at least as far as military intelligence is concerned, but to do this as openly as possible. We're missing the Military Intelligence Act. In fact, it should have been done by the 1920s. And the only thing that can be said about Mr Savola's speech is that it was a good closing statement for this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u55	Next, we will move on to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Lindström will present the matter. — 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u56	Thank you, Mr President. — EUR 906 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice next year. I am pleased that, compared to the current budget, the level of appropriations in the administrative sector will even improve slightly next year. However, due to the necessary fiscal adjustment measures, the economic situation of the administrative sector is likely to become more severe towards the end of the spending limits period. We're in the savings business. The improvement in the level of appropriations next year is due to an additional allocation under the Government Programme for internal security and justice. The Ministry of Justice's share of this money is EUR 17.5 million per year. The measures of the Justice Reform Programme will continue. The programme project aims to ensure legal certainty, even though justice is also subject to savings and expenditure pressures. The functioning of public legal assistance will be enhanced by developing legal advice, e-services and alternative dispute resolution methods. The overall plan, which was completed in summer 2015, aims to ensure that legal assistance services are easily accessible to citizens. One development measure is remote services that are piloted at legal aid offices. The reform of the district court network will continue and their details will be clarified in the near future. However, the aim is to strengthen the structure of rights so that access to justice and the quality of justice can also be guaranteed in the long term. The court fees will be increased and the fee will be extended from the beginning of 2016, but the changes will not undermine the legal protection of the deprived. Fees will be brought closer to the costs of handling cases. With changes, central government revenue is estimated to increase by between EUR 12 and 15 million per year. The number of applications for legal aid for asylum seekers is expected to increase. In order to curb the increasing costs of legal aid, ways are being sought to reduce procedures and processes. Similarly, the number of complaints related to negative asylum decisions is expected to increase in the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. At this stage, EUR 12.9 million has been earmarked for expenditure related to the legal protection of asylum seekers. In 2016, a democratic policy agenda and a second national action programme on fundamental and human rights will be prepared. The aim of the programmes is to identify priorities and concrete projects for the democracy statement issued during the last government term and for the Government report on human rights. Support services for victims of crime will be organised in cooperation with the social and health administration and the organisations providing services, as required by the EU Victims Directive. In order to finance the provision of services, a crime victim fee will be introduced and the related state aid system developed. An additional amount of EUR 2.5 million of the proceeds of the crime victim fee will be allocated to the provision of support services next year. Reforms of the legislation on the imposition of fines and fines are planned to enter into force in 2016. In addition to the doubling already carried out, a further 50%, i.e. three times, will be added to the fines. The daily fines are to be increased to about double. The reform of the premises of the Criminal Sanctions Agency is necessary in the context of a tightening economic situation. The aim is to act safely and to support the social effectiveness objectives set for the enforcement of the sentence and to reduce repeat crime. The aim is to maintain a comprehensive network of prisons at regional level. Since the beginning of 2016, responsibility for the organisation and financing of the care of prisoners will be transferred from the Criminal Sanctions Institute to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This will bring it closer to the normal health system and its monitoring. The administrative sector will be strengthened by significantly developing information systems in different sectors. A total of EUR 10.6 million will be allocated for next year compared to the level of the current year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u57	Let's start the debut. I'm going to ask those who want to sign up for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u58	Mr President! In fact, the Minister has presented things well in the area of justice, and I must say that the situation is better than in many other areas. It must be a partial thank-you to the fact that the parliamentary working party increased funding in the area of justice. But that is not enough: next year will be a good year, but the difficult years will come from then on, and that will require unprejudiced reform, and the Minister has already presented unprejudiced reform measures. Reforms must be made in content, but also in structures, and they are well presented in the Government Programme and in the Justice Reform Programme. However, I would like to ask the Minister at this point: when there are certain plans for the district court and prison network, as you mentioned in passing, will they continue? And I would also like to ask the Court of Justice: how is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u59	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a very good presentation. — I would like to raise one point in the area of judicial administration, which is that there could be some de-bureaucraticism: Today we have the opportunity to appeal to up to three or four different courts or similar courts. First we start with the municipal level, complain about the municipal board or similar decision, then we get a court-martial and we move on from it. My question is whether it would be appropriate to start preparing now whether we really need so many complaints, because that would make it possible to save considerably when we know how clogged our judicial system is today. At that meeting of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg last week, again, we heard how long there are waiting lists there too, and precisely because these things are not going to be finished here — it may take two or three years to deal with big issues. Could this help to reduce the number of complaints?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u60	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the administration of the Ministry of Justice for having received additional funds for the courts and for hearing the need for congestion there, and for that, too, for the fact that the payment base is being broadened with this legislative reform. I would point out, however, that even after this reform, the Court of Appeal still has a cost equivalent of between 6 % and 7 %. I would like to ask the Minister: has any thought been given to ways of easing the court process, for example, to hear video recordings of the district court without the need for people to come themselves? In other courts, we could still think about these procedural thresholds, so that smaller issues could be left more easily and further develop the possibilities for judges in disputes, restrict the argument, because these trials often increase, and this is one of the reasons for Mr Anttila's concern. How can that be changed internally and structurally? I'm asking you this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u61	Madam President! First of all, I would like to join in the ideas expressed here by representatives Anttila and Meri on how to streamline judicial processes, but with such a guarantee of fundamental rights, of course. My question relates to one particular situation. The Minister mentioned that due to the large number of asylum seekers, complaints about negative decisions are also increasing to the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. The response has now been to say that the procedure for appeals before the Supreme Administrative Court is to be reduced from the composition of three judges to the composition of two judges. I have a straightforward and perhaps radical solution for the Minister: since the possibility of appeal against the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service to the Administrative Court to meet the legal security requirements of human rights treaties could be denied from there to the Supreme Administrative Court, because every person who has received a negative decision goes all the way to the end just because of the delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u62	Madam President! The long-term objective of the justice reform programme is to halve the number of district courts. However, in deciding on this coverage of the judicial network, I would consider it important to first carry out an in-depth assessment of the impact of the 2010 reform on citizens' legal security and access to justice services. An assessment of how this detachment of district courts and other legal services has affected the defence of citizens' own rights is not available, and when I come from that province, I am sure that the problem is that the threshold for the judicial system and for the pursuit of my own affairs has risen to a higher level. Next year's budget will have a budget of EUR 23 million lower, and I am very concerned about these district courts, and when this air is thick and varied in this regard, I would also like to ask, like Mr Tolvanen, what is the Minister's intention in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u63	Madam President! First of all, thank the Minister for this presentation. I would have asked for legal aid for asylum seekers, and in the spirit of cooperation. I understand that this is certainly one of those areas where the costs will rise quite significantly and we need to find new operating models. But, as the Minister probably agrees, at the same time, of course, legal protection must remain with people. So if we have previously thought that it will be done precisely through this kind of personal help, then I hope that consideration will be given to how we, for example, in this kind of group situation we will ensure it. I would have asked how this model is to be built, or whether there is a Nordic comparison, for example, to move to some other model, so that the values of legal aid and the rule of law would still be preserved, so that we are not just saved up, as it were. Secondly, I would have quickly asked about the equal marriage law, which is intended to enter into force in 2017. It is quite a long process of preparation, and now, among other things, this genuine marriage citizens' initiative has come, and people are a little concerned about whether it will affect the process of drafting this equal marriage law, that is, if the Minister could also open it up briefly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u64	Värderade fru talman! Thank you to the Minister for his presentation and for his endurance as the bearer of two heavy briefcases. After you started your first initiatives as a minister, it was time to start a study on how the punishments correspond to the Finnish sense of justice. This is a study that, if done properly, can expand to an absurd size and easily swallow up the resources of the entire ministry. Then, if you do it within existing resources, it will easily culminate in populist shouting, pecking punishments in competition. I would question the need for such a study, especially since the problems of the judiciary may rather be that the length of processing time is too long, it is expensive to pursue one's own cause and, therefore, people will be happy to leave their own affairs uninterested. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: how is this investigation going?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u65	Mr President! EUR 12.9 million will be earmarked for legal protection for asylum seekers next year, based on that figure of 15,000 asylum seekers. Well, that's over 5,000 today. On the whole, how much money will have to be spent on this next year? I'm sure it's a huge amount of money. I fully agree with what Mr Zyskowicz said, perhaps it would be worth considering how far you can go if you come to the country without authorisation, if you are an irregular immigrant — and if we then say that you will not be given asylum in this country when you do not need it, then what on earth is the basis of this complaint? Yes, it would seem that the first stage of court is enough. But has it been considered to dismantle the current sum of administrative rights other than the Helsinki Administrative Court?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u66	Madam President! The Ombudsman for Children has drawn attention to the marriages of minors. Although their number has decreased in Finland over the past 20 years, the number of them is still around 30 per year, and the authorisation is usually based on a minor’s pregnancy. According to the Ombudsman, this figure should be set at zero, in particular in order to safeguard the rights of girls. According to her, a pregnant minor needs all the support possible, but marriage is not the right way to go about it, as the child may be under pressure in this regard, for example, on the part of the family or community. Now the law focuses on hearing the guardian rather than the child himself. Although these children’s marriages are quite marginal in Finland, Finland still has a responsibility to promote the implementation of the rights of the child in the international community. The UN Human Rights Council has also encouraged its Member States to act to prevent child marriages. So I ask the Minister: have you considered measures to prevent child marriages in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u67	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this district court network: what is the principle of possible changes to this network? Does it look at the number of prisons, the location of prisons, the location and number of police patrols and, as it were, the overall picture of this, or is it the case that more is then just shutting down offices and believing that savings will come in this way? In addition to these principles, I would like to ask a slightly different question like this: is it possible to think that even smaller district courts or district courts could specialise in something, as if in such a way then also take on tasks coming from another area, not always going into the way that it is felt that the larger the organization, so its greater expertise there is that a little bit of the other way around these principles would be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u68	Next, representatives of Pakkanen, Heinäluoma and Aalto and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u69	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good presentation. Now that the fines and fines are tripled and the daily fines are doubled, I feel a sting in my heart because I have been allowed to be on the payer side of this issue several times. But I think this correction is fair, and that's why I'm asking: What will happen in the future, for example, to the punishment of drunk drivers, sexual offences, drug and violent offenders? Are they also going to harden them, or will I only personally enjoy these benefits in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u70	Mr President! Indeed, this reform of the district court seems to be of great concern. As Finland travels and tours, there is a great deal of concern in the provinces about how far these courts pull away from people and how long these court trips will take. It also seems to have an impact on people's minds about what is in general such areas of vitality and balanced regional development. This is of course linked to other savings plans, such as this cut in VR's purchasing services, which is ending cross-border traffic and brings very great concern to a large part of Finland as to whether the political decision-maker still believes in the development of Finland as a whole. You obviously have this district court plan there on the basis of the working group work. In what time will this be resolved, and what is your line when this decision is to be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u71	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister: As early as last autumn, in relation to the 2015 budget, legal practitioners made a joint statement, which explicitly stated that investments in justice cannot withstand international comparisons, that legal protection for people and businesses is insufficient and that the judiciary is under-resourced. After all, this can and will be influenced above all by the reform of justice, which will allow for some adjustment to savings. What is your view of these concerns and claims at the moment, how are you trying to respond to these challenges, and how is this reform of justice progressing at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u72	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u73	Thank you, Mr President. — Excellent questions, let's get started. Mr Tolvanen, it was the parliamentary working group that was the reason why this 17.5 million was received for this internal security, and it was extremely good work, and it was at the bottom there. The Justice Reform Programme is being taken forward. Then this big question, which came from many representatives in connection with this district court network — if I were to answer all of it now, what is the policy, what is the principle: The basis is the report of the working group, which included either the 14 district courts or the 17 district courts. Then, of course, we have also studied other models and their costs quite thoroughly in that Ministry of Justice. In addition to these policies, we must, of course, discuss with the government partners what their views on this matter have been. I have had this debate today, among other things. On the basis of these discussions, I will then make this final decision, and this decision will be public in the near future. What is the basis for that, then, of course, must look at this regional coverage, distances and so on, then what we can achieve with technology — all of this must be taken into account. And when I come from a place where the court and administrative court were removed during the last parliamentary term, of course I know what the image value of these district courts is also common to the locality. It could also be thought that it has this kind of subcontractor side, what to think about: if there is a small law firm and there is taken from the district court, then of course it also affects these employment aspects. This same answer is also appropriate for this debate on the prison network. All these things will be taken into account before I make the final decision. Representative Anttila and many others drew attention to these complaints. After all, the government has left us with the need to bend and speed this up, and that is where we are going. There were so many questions here — and the clock is ticking — but I would like to take Mr Zyskowicz's attention to whether this move from three judges to two judges is sufficient. Of course it's not enough. We're always looking for other ways. I have instructed those officials not to tell me what we cannot do, but to tell them what we can do, because we are in an entirely exceptional situation in relation to this asylum debate. — I regret that the time does indeed run, but we will continue the debate and I will answer everyone’s questions in order. Representative Toivola asked about this equal marriage law in relation to this Genuine Marriage Act. These are two separate processes: one comes here as the previous Parliament has decided, the government brings it here, and then the Genuine Marriage Act is its own process, and it is dealt with just like all other citizens' initiatives. That I don't mix these things up. Here's a short one, and I'll go on. There were many questions left unanswered, but repeat them, and then the minister will try to answer them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u74	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u75	Mr President! This government is now cutting back on the additional money that was given to the prosecution and bankruptcy control, for example, in order to combat the shadow economy last season. They're running out now. At the same time, 99 police officers from the Ministry of the Interior are not hired to combat the grey economy. However, it is in a way that quite a number of people estimate that the 2% increase in tax revenues at the moment is due to the fact that these means of combating the shadow economy have been used. For example, this tax number for buildings may have significantly increased tax revenues on that side. I would like to ask you, Minister of Justice, how you see the operation of this whole chain after the cuts you have now made in the budget for the Ministry of Justice. How will they contribute to this fight against the shadow economy, and do you think we should increase resources there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u76	Madam President! In this part of Europe, too, we will certainly be involved in the biggest asylum crisis we have seen in Europe for a long time, and we certainly need very practical solutions. We now know that, compared with the past, more and more applicants will be given asylum in Finland and these strong integration measures are needed. We are pleased that the initiative put forward in the Green Party delegation two weeks ago to remove the three-month ban on the work of asylum seekers and immigrants has received a positive reception from the ministerial level, and I would like to ask what is going on in the Ministry of Justice in order to abolish such a period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u77	Madam Speaker! It is good to hear that Minister Lindström evaluates both the judicial network and the prison network from the perspective of the region. I am not asking about any specific subject when I know that an overall assessment must be carried out, but it is probably the case in general that by concentrating everything possible on large units there is also a considerable degree of certainty that there will be an increase in the price. This is probably one of these aspects that is good in that preparation and consideration. But then my question concerns these small special courts, which have now been combined with different court rights. Are there any first assessments of whether there are now sufficient skills to deal with these special cases? What matters here is how long these proceedings will last and what kind of legal protection this will be for the various parties involved. However, these special courts are now working quite well. I wonder what the situation is at the moment. It'll be an estimate later, but are there any first thoughts about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u78	Mr President! The Government Programme reads as follows: "Abbreviation of the time limits for the Courts of Justice by making So you have the mandate of the Government Programme to limit the rights of appeal. In my opinion, you did not give a very precise answer to Mr Zyskowicz's question. I do not want to repeat it here, but if you could answer it, because I think that this is quite relevant now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u79	Mr President! Now, with regard to asylum seekers, it seems that perhaps 50,000 will come this year and that will increase next year. It can be roughly estimated that perhaps at most about half will receive asylum and half will not, and of those who will not, apparently quite a large proportion will lodge a complaint with the administrative court — free legal aid, when they are poor — and then there will be a number of cases in the administrative court that threaten to congest the entire administrative court in a short period of time. Then, let us say now, these complaints from Finnish companies and municipalities may then be left behind, and this is certainly a bad thing for business projects, for example. How do you see this, whether there is such a risk and how can these appropriations be used to prepare for it, what is now available?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u80	Mr President! If we move from structures to criminal politics. It is great that a new crime prevention programme is being drawn up, and it is great that the government continues to take the line that the victim of the crime is at the heart of the crime. Now we take care of the needs of the victim of crime, and we receive, among other things, a crime victim’s fee. In addition, the Government Programme contains a number of measures to improve the status of victims of crime, including the punishment of violent, sexual offences, the combination of a conditional and unconditional prison sentence and the development of a procedure for the release of prisoners, specifically the procedure for the release of dangerous prisoners. Let me ask you this: what stage are these? Are they waiting for the outcome of the study you have carried out, which will explain the views of the citizens on penalties, or are they already taking action, because these are important issues? Amongst other things, a citizens' initiative has arrived in the Parliament to intensify the sentence of sexual exploitation of the child, and it would be happy to deal with it in the Legal Affairs Committee together with these other packages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u81	Madam President! As has been shown above, the penalty fine doubles, and the reasonableness of daily fines is also under test. It is the rule that the amount of the daily fine should be reasonable in relation to the ability to pay the fine, but now this increase in the minimum fine does mean that it is the least-earned. Old Olaus Petri’s judge’s instructions from 1530 say that “all laws are set for justice and fairness and not for fines.” It seems to me now that we are trying to fill a budget gap with these fines, which seems to be a pretty wrong starting point when we think about the system of penalties. What does the Minister say about this, and is this now constitutional or anti-constitutional?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u82	Madam President! The Government’s objective of effectiveness in the area of the Ministry of Justice is to ensure that legal protection is realised in practice. This is a very good starting point and also draws the donkey bridge into the sense of justice that was discussed here today. I personally welcome this research project launched by the Minister, which explains the general sense of law and its relationship with the practices of condemnation. I raise, as did the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, these sexual crimes against children. It is also mentioned here that the level of punishment for serious sexual crimes against children is being reviewed. We have now received a citizens' initiative on the subject, and also a bill which, in the previous period, was already in the Parliament, both through Mr Tolvanen and through myself, will also be submitted to Parliament as a version. I would like to ask: how is this going now? The second question concerns drunk driving convictions, something has just been mentioned here. When six statements were made during the previous period, how does this matter proceed? I understand that the Ministry has done well to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u83	Still representatives of Anttila, Zyskowicz and A haystack before the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u84	Mr President! I agree here with those representatives who have considered it right that one level of appeal should be sufficient for immigration decisions. I couldn't agree more. This also involves the fact that these costs on the side of legal aid are being increased all the time if there are so many complaints. In that sense, I would encourage the Minister to do so. But I actually asked to speak to remind you that Forssa is also a district court chamber, and I hope that the offer of cooperation made by the city of Forssa is acceptable to the minister and that we can preserve it there. Because it has such a symbolic value that you don't have to do it 136 kilometres away. Lahti is going to take them to the District Court to take them to court. This is also a very big issue of movement. It's going to cost you a trip back and forth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u85	Madam President! I am very pleased that this Chamber has become a supporter of my proposal. I'll get back to that. Today, therefore, there is a situation where, following a negative decision by the Finnish Immigration Service on an asylum application, the person concerned may appeal to the Helsinki Administrative Court and, of course, use the services of free legal assistance. When even the administrative court makes a negative decision, the situation today is that this asylum seeker is allowed to apply to the Supreme Administrative Court for an appeal permit, which is then dealt with by three administrative advisers. In this situation, of course, there is always an application for suspension of implementation. Well, in practice, as we well understand, the Supreme Administrative Court has rarely, if ever, changed these solutions of the Helsinki Administrative Court. Minister, you said you were waiting for the Ministry to show you. I say to you: this is not going to happen unless there is a strong political direction. That's what we expect from you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u86	Mr President! I would have continued to discuss this problem of the shadow economy, which is, of course, an important theme for the Minister of Justice, but also a very important theme for the Minister of Labour. That is what Mr Rinne spoke about earlier. Today, the Parliamentary Audit Committee received information on how the earlier parliamentary statements on combating the shadow economy have moved forward in the Government's work. In this context, it emerged that this government would not be continuing a separate programme to combat the shadow economy. For more than 20 years now, such a systematic programming approach has been undertaken by various ministries — the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior and so on — to bring this problem to the fore. As Mr Rinne said, this has clearly produced results. But now there is great concern whether it is really the case that this programme to combat the shadow economy will not be continued by this government. What is your personal position because such strong political guidance is needed here too?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u87	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u88	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinäluoma called for strong political guidance. That is true, it is needed, and I have noticed that these things are not going anywhere else if the Minister does not say that this is going to happen. Perhaps I said a little too carefully when I said just now that I do not need to be told about problems but about solutions. This is the way in which we now think about this complaint process, that we need new and effective means, and we know what the problem is, the long period of appeal, and that brings us enormous costs. We have to do something about this. Here I myself will see to it that the strong political direction, as much as these muscles are leaving, will take place. As far as this grey economy, the fight against the shadow economy, is concerned, in this spending limits period, the prosecution's side has the current funding of EUR 3.3 million in relation to this fight against the grey economy. It must be recognised that the additional funding of courts and enforcement bodies will, instead, end up in line with the decisions of the previous government from 16 onwards. The fight against the shadow economy is a matter for which 20 million are reserved for memory. My own view is that the black economy must be combated, it has a lot of means, and I have been very concerned about it in the previous period. This is, of course, one of those jobs where I am still going to keep my mouth open, because it is proven that there are also results available, i.e. tax revenue for the government. There were a lot of questions here about these district courts still, and a representative Eestilä asked about this specialization in district courts. In my opinion, this is one way of trying to solve this problem, that instead of developing it by abolishing it, it may not always be the answer, the answer may be that it can specialise and find its own area of expertise, and in this way it will also safeguard this territorial coverage of these rights. This is the kind of thing that I also try to watch when this work is done. Mr Wallinheim also spoke about this limitation of the right of appeal. There will, of course, be strong support here, especially from the government parties, in relation to this issue of asylum seekers. Mr Tolppanen also asked about this decentralised model. Then this citizens' sense of justice project, perhaps at the end of a few words about it. That project has indeed been launched here, and the work is moving forward. No matter how much criticism it has become, I personally believe that it is a good thing to find out. It is being done together with the University of Helsinki’s Crimeanology and Legal Policy Institute, and I think that this project will take a little too long, a year and a half — two years, and I think it could have been speeded up a little bit, but we will do a thorough job, after which we will have to draw some conclusions on what needs to be done in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u89	Madam President! Indeed, as has been mentioned on many occasions here, fines are being tightened and, at the very least, it would be natural for financial crime and the informal economy to be accompanied by more investment. How are you going to tackle financial crime more rigorously? I would like to repeat my previous questions, namely that the joint position of the judicial authorities drew attention last autumn to the fact that the efforts in the area of justice are not able to withstand international comparisons, that legal protection for people and businesses is under threat and that the judiciary is under-resourced. What is your view of this situation now, and how will this challenge be tackled — and the solution, specifically the reform of justice, make it possible to adapt to savings — how is this project going to proceed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u90	Mr President! Minister! I was talking to a recent chief of police about this for quite some time now, and he explained how this influx of asylum seekers had been responded to, among other things, by having 50 police officers specifically taken from the financial investigations to get qualified police officers to consult and investigate these asylum seekers. How do you see that we have to move police officers from the financial investigations to these tasks, including financial investigations and investigations into the informal economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u91	Mr President! Minister of Justice, you have started well on this mission, and we must thank you for that. For example, you have actively raised the issue of convictions for serious crimes, and I certainly thank you for this. The judicial system is also burdened by various complaints relating to planning and construction. We have about 3 billion different types of investment standing because these decisions are not being reached. Of course, not everyone is at different court levels, but usually in licensing processes. The government has promised that these will be implemented. The Minister for the Environment is certainly responsible for them, but I am sure that you too, as Minister for Justice, have been so interested in these matters that you are aware of the way in which they are going and with what timetable. Integration is also your responsibility. Was it the case that we dealt with it all last week, but if you did, I would be happy to hear what estimates you have now that the number of asylum seekers has risen to this level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u92	Madam President! Trafficking in human beings is currently flourishing very flagrantly, and organised crime is a source of money for people's needs. It is important and good that Finland has reacted to this issue and that smugglers are increasingly caught at borders. But not everyone can be caught. I would ask the Minister: if the EU is too hard to work together quickly, does Finland have a plan of its own to eradicate smuggling and to toughen up the penalties?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u93	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Lindström for the extensive presentation and comprehensive presentation of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. As the Minister of Justice has said, an increase of some EUR 900 million will be proposed for the administrative sector next year, with a few million additional euros compared to the previous budget, and as has already been said here today, an increase of EUR 17.5 million in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the Government Programme is of particular importance in terms of internal security and justice. I consider this to be a very good development, but in the later years of the spending limits period, the Ministry of Justice should have speeded up the adjustment of expenditure by perhaps EUR 30 to 40 million compared to the current level of appropriations. I would now like to ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, for an initial assessment of the importance of digitalisation, the increasing use of e-services, and the development and introduction of alternative processes and methods, which are part of the government's top projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u94	Madam President! I am actually going to pick up on what Mr Tolppanen asked me, and I am actually going to clarify it. Does the Ministry of Justice, or someone else, have any calculations as to how much uncontrolled immigration will burden our justice system over the next few years and how much it will cost? Certain groups of immigrants are over-represented in statistics, for example in rapes, so it is likely that the costs of court proceedings falling on the back of taxpayers will increase as the number of arrivals suddenly increases to such a high level. Is there any calculation as to how much that price tag will be for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u95	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his active work so far. There is a Government proposal 32 coming to the House, which speaks of active repentance, and I think it goes by the name of "the law of the sea", or how it is now, but something like this. The objective is good, to get the Finnish State back the money that belongs to the Finnish State, which has been taken outside the Finnish tax collection system by questionable means. Does the Minister know something that has not yet come to the debate? I am thinking here mainly of those who have been organising these questionable money transfers and speculations and are taking loopholes and who may now be able to get away with it, as it were, without any punishment or sanction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u96	Mr President! Integration is an important issue now, and the Minister has also taken up our proposals, for example, to facilitate access to work permits for asylum seekers from the outset. Integration is a work of years and years and, on the other hand, if we turn it positive, if we do it well, it will take 25 years for the baby to enter the labour market, but within a few years the asylum seeker can become a net contributor to this society. This is the aim of all of us to make asylum seekers as integrated as possible. There are different experiences in different municipalities that organisations do something, the municipality has done something, the state authorities have done something, and the practices are quite varied. How, Minister, your immigration team, as you are now working in the ministries to speed up this cooperation, would it be possible for every municipality in which the reception centre is immediately on top of the situation and anyone who can provide language training, who offers job opportunities, to be ready there to offer them and to cooperate everywhere? Do you already have a country-wide plan for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u97	Mr President! I too would like to support the reduction in the composition of the Court of Justice and the restriction of the right of appeal, as has already been done. In fact, I have had a lot of discussions with the various judges who are in the courts to judge, and they are ready with them specifically for the District Court to be strengthened and from then on taking the matter in such daily matters would no longer proceed. Of course, difficult things are ahead, but it is not out of anyone's legal security, and these days we are going to have big savings that will have to be made in the years to come. With regard to these savings, I would like to ask about the conversion of the fine. It's been canceled. I understand that's what's going to cost us 20 million dollars. It is justifiable in these times because the proposal decided by the previous government was very bureaucratic and complex. It is clear that the criminal must be convicted, the shoplifter must be convicted, and I ask what steps you have taken now to prepare compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u98	Mr President! When asked about the fines, I just wanted to say that it is particularly targeted at low incomes, that the lowest fine has been its EUR 6 of age and now, if it goes up double, it will not go up terribly. In view of the fact that, for example, damages become such a 10 to 20 daily fine, it is between EUR 60 and EUR 120. We have a parking ticket of 50 euros in Hyvinkää, so of course it must also be punished. You don't have to commit those crimes. But I would have repeated my question that do you have any consideration in the Ministry of Justice as to whether to reduce the number of procedures. I am absolutely in favour of this examination of complaint procedures very carefully and also in relation to these formations in the courts. The composition of three judges is not always required. I myself have worked in court and district courts, and I know that there is also a desire for substantive tools, i.e. re-consultation of recordings, procedural thresholds — that is, there are also procedural aids, because it is a heavy procedure and it does not help, even if it is not subject to appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u99	Mr President! When, obviously, the district court network is going to become thinr in the midst of austerity pressures, how are the plans of this working group, which sat in practice last season, to improve and expand these video connections? Is there a budget for this? This is also largely a question of legal certainty. Then the second point relates to this electronic vote, because the idea of digital leaps in electronic voting experienced a setback in municipal elections in 2008 when experiments went wrong. Has a towel been thrown into the ring in this regard and the matter is as if on ice? This part of the text does say something that the municipal referendum can be tried out, but does it dare to move forward, despite the bad experience?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u100	Madam President! First of all, I would like to express my support for Mr Zyskowicz's proposal that asylum seekers should have an administrative right to appeal in terms of legal protection, that the highest administrative right is not needed. This is also, of course, a cost issue. Representative Halmemenpää suggested that this year there will be an increasing number of asylum seekers in Finland who will receive a positive decision. This argument is both true and false, in the sense that there will certainly be more decisions in numbers than those adopted in the past, because simply there will be more asylum seekers, but I dare to say, in percentage terms, that the number of people to accept is lower than in previous years because of the new policies on security in Iraq in the Immigration Service and, I hope, the return agreement with Iraq, which will enter into force as soon as possible, with the Foreign Minister. I ask the Minister for Justice, when, indeed, substantial returns are likely to come in the near future, how the Ministry of Justice is in practice and then, from an economic point of view, is prepared for such returns to begin to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u101	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the grey economy, and it is important that it is not forgotten, but that additional funds should be made available. One problem was, as has been said in recent years, that the authorities are not in the middle. But then there has also been talk, and my sense of justice does not accept it if I simply say that when an economic criminal confesses, he will be given smaller sentences, perhaps, but when someone steals a piece of sausage, he will not be pardoned much later. Today there is also a great deal about unemployment and debt, that debts are not paid off and going into enforcement and that a complete cycle is coming, that when you are in enforcement there will be defaults and then you will not be able, for example, to rent a dwelling, get a debit card, credit card or get a loan. This cycle may be for years, and he will then eat this person who has it. Could there be any relief?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u102	Madam President! A couple of questions about traffic offences and offences. Finland cooperates internationally, and we have the same information systems in place with many other countries in the European Union, but still, if a foreigner drives us, for example, to a traffic surveillance camera at a speed that requires a daily penalty, how can we collect this daily penalty from a foreigner, because it is based on net income and obviously it is difficult for us to determine the net income of these knights and others? The second question is whether there is a system of scoring or an administrative fee for fines, because it is a rather difficult experience for a professional driver in particular if three minor offences result in the loss of a card and, of course, this same injustice affects people in remote areas. If they lose their cards, it is a completely different punishment than in the capital region, where public transport operates.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u103	Madam President! I would like to ask whether the Minister is coming up with a line on this. After all, we have a long tradition of legislation in this area, and it has been felt that it brings transparency, increases public confidence in the courts and also controls the activities of judges. Similarly, I would ask about those summarizing matters. It has long been said that they would be concentrated on a particular district court or on the Kingdom Department, as has been done in Sweden. The Committee on Legal Affairs visited Sweden and they were very pleased with this system and said that this solution freed up the resources and resources of the district court for real work, and that Voudinlaitos is the right place to deal with summary matters. Is there any line in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u104	Mr President! As a result of the refugee crisis, we are facing large-scale integration, which should be done very well. I recently met immigrants who have been living in Finland for a long time, and they say that integration could be much more flexible, better and even more effective if these citizens who have already lived in Finland with a well-integrated immigrant background were involved in integration activities, for example through various organisations. Have you considered this in the Ministry — and if the Minister could answer my previous question on minors' marriages?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u105	Mr Henriksson and then Mr Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u106	Madam President! It is very interesting to read this budget book now and to note that this fine is actually being abolished. In this good Parliament last season, the people of the Coalition Party in particular felt that we needed a new system of conversion punishment for fines, and the Finns of Peru also strongly believed that. Now that these two are in one government, they come to the conclusion that there is no room for this. It's very interesting. In this economic situation, I have nothing against it, but I wonder a little about your political line. I would now like to ask Minister Lindström: what will now replace this, how will this government now deal with this issue, which I think is important to think forward, because these people are precisely the kind of people that most of them need substance abuse care and they need other support in their own lives? Have we thought it through? But, Madam President, I would also have asked about these court fees. Now that we know that we are going to go to the point of increasing court fees, which can be a very good thing, why will the Ministry of Justice and the administration of justice not benefit from this at all? I would like the Minister to be able to give an answer to this, because it would certainly contribute to a reform of justice programme if there had also been some sympathetic feedback in this area, both within the government and from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u107	And then Minister Lindström, five minutes to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u108	Madam President! A lot of questions — I'm sure I won't answer, but I'll try to answer as many questions as I can. My predecessor, Mr Henriksson, asked about court fees and why there was no such money here on the OM side. We tried to get there, but we couldn't. I fought over it — not in the blood now — but this happened. That would certainly have been justified. This was precisely the idea of why this was done. I lost this fight, honestly this is what I confess. Congressman Ojala-Niemelä, you asked about the jury system. I'm not making any plans about that. Of course, the issue has been raised several times, and I know the pros and cons of the jury system, but at least not in the near future. Then there is the question of these summarizing matters. It is precisely I who have initiated this sort of inquiry — i.e. I have not decided on it — whether these summatic matters could be concentrated on district courts, perhaps five district courts. I am well aware that there is also this other solution, where it could be concentrated on the enforcement side. But like I said, now we're going to find out what it really means, and then we're going to make decisions. Representative to Eloranna for these child marriages: I've noticed that these petitions are coming on my desk as well. Of course, I am rather critical of them. They have so far been quite well - founded: parental permission and so forth and a religious background in general. But I know that this is one of those things that shares a little opinion. Fortunately, there have not been very many of those requests. Then this big thing that many people have been paying attention to, this big picture of asylum seekers and resources. Among other things, Mr Hakkarainen raised the issue of what amounts of money, whether calculations were made. So calculations have been made, for the information we have now known: this has been calculated on the basis of 15,000 asylum seekers. As we know, these figures have changed since then. It is quite impossible to predict this, they always count what is known. And on the basis of 15,000 asylum seekers, there is a need for additional funding of around EUR 13 million in the OM administrative sector. But the amount is, of course, much higher now, because we know that this number of applicants will increase. This is actually about the whole big picture. Many here asked how the ministerial group worked. Among other things, Mr Niinistö asked about this integration, many others, which is the government's line. We are in such a new situation that we certainly have those old ways, but we need quite a bag of new, completely new thinking. In fact, we need radical thinking, otherwise we will not get away with this. Yesterday I came from Luxembourg, where there was a meeting of the Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs. This was the biggest conversation there at lunch — so that we were going to go a little over time on this issue. This is really challenging at EU level, it is really challenging at Finnish level. If you are thinking now of the possibility of these people getting legal aid there for the fees, expenses, things like this, then additional resources are needed. Additional resources are needed for administrative law. I am quite open-mindedly prepared to push forward the thinking that these proceedings could then be taken somewhere other than the Helsinki Administrative Court. All such unprejudiced thinking is needed, because otherwise we will not survive this clay. I have been quite careful about what I say to the public before it has been discussed within the government, because I have noticed that when a minister says something, it is suddenly the truth and that is what has been decided and that is not what has been decided. These ministerial groups are precisely because they discuss, align and take new decisions. We need both: we need flexible procedures, fast procedures and rapid decisions, and at the same time we need integration. These are all needed. Here I can say that with these two coats on top of each other, there is plenty of work to do. This debate has also shown that it has also been understood from the opposition that this is not a matter for the government alone, and this is not a matter for the opposition alone; it is a matter for both of us, otherwise it will not be resolved. I'm glad we're having this kind of conversation. I'm sorry if I really don't have time to answer all your questions. Grab the sleeve and then ask me more about this stuff. I'm the one learning to be the Minister of Justice, and I'm allowed to be caught up in the sleeve — hopefully this will go away. Thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u109	Now we move on to the section of the Ministry of Education and Culture. — — — — Secretary Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u110	Mr President! The future of Finland will be built on high education, research and expertise. The difficult economic situation challenges us to find new ways of working and to reform. When the economy grew, the education system was developed by increasing expenditure. Now that the economy is not growing, we must prioritise and safeguard the quality of education and research by doing things better than before. There has been much talk of training cuts recently. I would like to start by saying that Finland will spend EUR 9.5 billion on education, research and culture in next year's budget, of which EUR 6.8 billion in the section of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The cuts to be made next year amount to around 2% of all the euro spent on education and research and 2.7% of the OKM budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u113	There will be a debate. — First speech, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u114	Mr President! This was a very nice speech from the Minister again, but it was quite different from the social debate that is now taking place on education and research. After all, we now have a situation in many universities in which there are negotiations. During this government, we in Finland are engaged in the major negotiations of the Finnish university system at the University of Helsinki, which concerns 1200 employees, researchers, professors. I have received more and more messages that indicate that talented researchers are moving abroad. Many of us were surprised and worried when our favorite professor, Professor Hämeen-Anttila, is going to England and he justified it very much with the situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u115	Mr President! In this regard, the Minister pointed out that one of the top priorities of the government is to extend the youth guarantee towards the Community guarantee. After all, the overall funding for this Youth Guarantee will be reduced by more than half next year, and although it is true that the administrative sector of the OKM still has this money in the frame for next year, these reductions in the budget will, above all, be directed towards youth work and workshop activities in the administrative sector of the OKM next year, so that, even after this increase in the key money, there will be a gap between 5.5 and 6 million in youth work. This has been a highly effective form of youth work, and has also been something that the municipalities want to expand. According to its own policies, the government has also said that it wants to invest in this particular outreach work for young people. I would now like to ask the Minister: how do you intend to ensure that we on the youth side get to the same level as we were on this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u116	Mr. Speaker! Since this is a budget referral debate, I think that Mr Andersson's speech was a good referral to the committee before us in the future. This is now in the hands of Parliament, and I think that we should be able to work together to find solutions for, for example, that very well-experienced young people's work can continue at least to its present extent, preferably even wider. That's a good referral. Let's try to deal with this together. Well, then from this general 2% cut to the amount of the previous year. It must be very careful that the scissors do not slip into the core and into the most essential of all, and that as many savings as possible can be made through the dismantling of standards, through the removal of special funding and through reforms. Many good things happen, not just small things: year-round learning, increasing the percentage of culture, hours of physical activity, improving the interaction between school and working life, dismantling barriers to education exports, digital leaps, continuing training of teachers — big, long-awaited
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u117	Mr President! It is true that there is a lot of cuts in education, but there are positive things in this budget: there is no cuts in upper secondary schools, for example. Eighteen per cent of high school students know what they would like to study in the future. The rest do not yet know, so student guidance will play a very important role. Electronic matriculation exams by 2020 in every subject: how challenging is it, Minister, that this job works and that it is also territorially equal? There is also a focus on learning at the workplace of a vocational school. Cooperation between vocational schools and companies needs to be stepped up. This means that a great deal, many tens of thousands, of businesses are needed for this cooperation. How will it be promoted?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u118	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. Quite separately, I would like to thank Mrs Puumala for the excellent start of her speech in relation to this detective youth work. It would be really great if we in Parliament could find that common will space. There, apparently, this 8 million deficit, as if some of it were now being brought together by some sort of assembly, but there are still several million shortfalls, for example, compared to the previous budget, and it is so vitally important for all of this youth guarantee thinking and for everyone to be involved that it is very important to find its state of mind. Then I would have asked about learning environments and digitalisation. It would be nice if the Minister could give a little more detailed description of what it is going to mean in practice, because now there is the great contradiction between cuts and renewal and how that equation can come about — if it could be opened up, who is, as it were, the authoritarian voice, through which this vision begins to be extended. Personally, I would feel that it is really important to activate children and young people. I had three 12-year-olds here today as a guest, and they had really great things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u119	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson has a few words of feedback: It is clear that there is less money, but then you have to ask how that money is spent more wisely. Let's take the university field: We know that our research is fragmentary and we can ask how we can make choices in different universities and focus on their own choices. Our educational responsibilities are fragmented, and here too we can consider what synergies we will have, for example, by combining national economic studies with one another. We have small teams of experts who can be said to be very vulnerable. Similarly, we have a situation where cooperation between sectors, whether it be research institutes or universities, is still much to be improved. The second question is also how money is spent within universities, how much the euro is spent on teaching and research, and this is one of the places where the processes can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u120	Mr President! I am personally concerned that these impact assessments, which have been half-baked, show that not all solutions have been considered to the very end. I would like the Minister to be able to consider the fact that, on the whole of basic education, this parliamentary hall, with the help of scientists, has made a road map of how comprehensive school is to be reformed, and there were important policies that had to be implemented, but the money involved has now been significantly cut or completely removed. One good example is this digitality, i.e. there used to be money to promote digitality even more in these quality money than there is now in this key programme that has been selected. Secondly, with regard to these impact assessments: I think it would be fair to say that limiting the subjective right to day care will not result in those savings when we know that restricting the subjective right to day care will have to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u121	Now I'm paying attention, Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u122	Thank you, President, for giving me my name and identity back, thank you for that. — Mr President! I am concerned about many things, but I am particularly concerned about the future of early childhood education. We know that there are many changes to early childhood education: cuts, and we are talking about larger groups, restrictions on subjective day-care rights, club activities and perhaps even changes to these qualifications in municipalities. And this whole palette, this whole package, is, in my opinion, a threat to high-quality early education, and I think it is a question of whether we want to continue to offer all children equal opportunities for learning and success. That's what this is all about. My question is: does the government now want to destroy early childhood education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u125	Mr President! The Government invests in digitalisation in its goals but not in the budget. The Action Plans mention that EUR 6 million is needed for digital materials and learning and EUR 9.5 million is needed for knowledge-gathering. Where are these in the budget? They're not there at all. The Government also wants to increase apprenticeship training for young people. What kind of money? In the budget, the government cuts the funds for apprenticeships by EUR 3.4 million. The aim is also to strengthen youth work, but the budget will reduce the budget by EUR 5.5 million from youth workshops and outreach youth work. This whole draft budget is full of contradictions of this kind. Tomorrow, when we deal with this government announcement, this conflict will only increase. I would now like to ask the Minister: where is this money for all these wonderful things, what are you suggesting that will happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u126	Mr President! Thousands and thousands of people in their Only Two Hands campaign have been concerned and protested against the dismantling of subjective day care rights. This deprives children of the right to full-time early childhood education, playing ball with children, and this leads to more marginalisation. At the same time, group sizes are being increased, which makes it even more difficult to work in day care. And at the same time, in this coercive package, sick pay is being cut, which particularly affects kindergarten teachers and nannies who receive diseases from their work. Holidays are being cut, it is compensation for lower wages, and this means that the holiday allowance cut is actually bigger for kindergarten teachers and nannies than for others, because they take holiday days first and then they cut the holiday allowance from a smaller holiday date. Now I ask you, Minister, What You Say to Motivate
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u127	Mr President! It is true that there will be less money for education next year than this year. That is why we will have to do things better in the future. The procedures and structures need to be reformed. One example of this is the reform of the poorly functioning Youth Guarantee into a Community guarantee. But once it has been said here what Parliament needs to focus on, I will say two things. In the Early Childhood Education Act, when an adult has enough time for a child, we need to think about it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u128	Mr President! I agree with Mr Toivola and Mr Puumala in this Chamber that we really need to work together to find solutions to ensure that we can secure this detective youth work in particular and that it will continue. I think it is excellent that the teacher development programme is about to start, because the teacher is the core of all learning. It is also a guarantee of whether the digitalisation leap and the Mobility School project will take place, among other things. I would have asked Mr Grahn-Laasonen how to take account of the learning methods here, because then there are so many learners there in children and young people. I would also like to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u129	Mr President! Investment in the learning of young children and the promotion of social skills is one of the most profitable investments in society. Teenage is much more difficult and expensive to fix the problems of early childhood. According to an OECD study, the euro will benefit up to EUR 7 from early childhood education. The government’s savings from early childhood education are massive and the way they are made is very damaging to children. In the normal group, the group size increases for three adults from 21 to 24. Well, these children are still lucky, but those children whose rights to day care are limited to part-time may now be included in a group of up to 13 children per adult, i.e. up to 39 children in the group. An escar day of a pre-school child may be extended by club activities whose group sizes and eligibility are not regulated in any way. In addition, a child may therefore have to change groups a couple of times during the day. How do you think this baby feels?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u130	Mr President! These cuts in the education sector are certainly not welcome and there is no point in embellishing them, despite the fact that there are some good things in the budget, as has been pointed out here. But I'd like to ask the minister. Although it has not been included in the Government Programme, there has been a debate on it, and people in the field of education have been enthusiastic, people from education organisations have also been enthusiastic about the fact that in high school there would be a kind of tet-relationship period for universities and/or universities of applied sciences, a period of two weeks in universities or universities of applied sciences, so that there would not be false choices and therefore waste years and disproportionate consequences of false study choices, but that they would be allowed to study that area as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u131	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear Minister of Justice Lindström, who had a very realistic view of the challenges facing his own administrative sector. But, Minister, you did have a slightly different view of the field from what you hear from the universities, the nannies, the kindergarten teachers, the primary school teachers and the second degree. That I would now like to see a degree of humility in that it is not a cluffle of reform if education appropriations are cut by almost 10% during this term of government. You were talking about next year, 2% — you are preparing cuts of almost 10%. It feels like it, and I would like to think that the less the money, the better the education of Finns, as Mr Sarkomaa did. Mr President! I would like to ask you a couple of questions: Minister, if Parliament wants to fund additional measures to replace the Youth Guarantee, especially day care and outreach work, how are you prepared to help in this regard? And is the government prepared to improve the financial situation of higher education,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u132	Mr President! I am a little confused by this uproar from the opposition here that these measures are now destroying the whole of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u135	Now that I can, Mr. Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u136	Thank you, Mr President. What we are trying to say here is that we do not, as it were, accept that we should develop and change. Yes, we accept changes and developments, but I also think that the government must recognise and recognise that there are also cuts, because these cuts are so extensive that it is not just a question of development, it is a question of direct cuts in our education as a whole. For example, we are talking about structural reforms in the field of higher education without knowing what the process is and what the goal is. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Nearly primeval time spent. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u139	Mr President! Clearly, we cannot get rid of the fact that with less money we have to make, and I can say that they are actually cuts. But the question is how they will be implemented. Take, for example, basic education: At the same time, new curricula are being promoted, the digital learning environment is being introduced, it has its own contributions, it is being taken from the curriculum, for example, by phenomena-based learning. But these are not brought by themselves, but at the same time it is known that those of our infinitely valuable teachers who teach every day need new skills. A further EUR 9.5 million will be invested in further training for teachers next year, and at the same time the reflection on basic training for all teaching staff will be started together with the teachers. The question is how these will be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u140	Mr President! In my eyes, Professor Sixten Korkman also grows several cents: "Investments in learning small children and promoting social skills are among the most profitable investments in society." And then Sixten Korkman brags about how he was in Vaasa kindergarten and how great the treatment he got there. That is what we in the opposition are concerned about, raising groups in early childhood education. But here is such a tactic on the part of the government parties that we want to move the debate to important details as such, and you are trying to obscure the big picture that was promised in the elections: training had been cut to a crisp during the previous season, and the promise was 'no more cuts'. And the government is making more cuts with almost 3 billion cumulatively. When that big picture is what Prime Minister Lipponen could do:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u141	Mr. Speaker! However, it is probably a good choice not to have basic funding, the central government shares of the municipalities, to weaken it, that is to say, always assigning a savings target when it is felt that savings should be made. Against this background, the question of this early childhood education is actually: how do you, Minister, currently estimate that there are a few different numbers in the air — the proposals are not yet in the Parliament — to what extent will the savings be made, that is, to what extent will the municipalities introduce this possibility from 1:7 to 1:8? That is the norm, and to relax it means that it is an opportunity for municipalities, and savings are determined by how many municipalities introduce that. What does that mean in everyday life? How far have you been able to prepare that law, which is apparently about to be passed on to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u142	Mr President! Yes, new national curricula are currently being turned around in municipalities, digital leaps are being made and phenomena-based learning should also be promoted. Huhhh, there is some feedback from the education professionals that there is work in it, and all these reforms are certainly necessary, but when you add the burden of cutting off the basic baking of teaching and learning bread, it becomes disproportionate. We need to have some peace in the field of education. I would also like to ask: when the share of direct government research funding has been falling all the time — in the Netherlands it is 78 %, in Switzerland 68, in Denmark 57 and in Finland only 44 — how does this fit into the top priority of the government, which is called the bioeconomy, when there seems to be no funding for research and science in the natural resources sectors? How does the government secure the link between these two?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u143	Mr President! When you listen to what the representatives of the government parties and Minister Grahn-Laasonen have said, the impression is that we will actually be doing much better in education in the future than we are doing now, we will be talking about these new development projects, but when we look at the raw figures over the next four years: 300 million more for these projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u148	Mr President! If there is anything good here, at least there will be tuition fees for people from outside the EU and the EEA, which will then be developed by schools. And so is the hour of exercise: it is already good for health that children should have to move for at least an hour. But then the current issue, which I have already asked about, is that these reception centres are now being created around the country like mushrooms in the rain, and then children may also come to the municipalities for education. I would like to ask whether you have already made a decision, Minister, that also the date of calculation, that is, the date of 20.9. after the day after, these now coming children will be covered by the state. It seems unreasonable if this were not the case that others were and others were not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u149	Mr President! It is true, as has already been mentioned in several words, that these solutions are in many respects very difficult. But in the same way it is true that there are also a lot of positive entries here, as Mrs Puumala very well put together in her first speech. I am particularly pleased with the efforts now being made to prevent such corrective services in the future: children, young people, sports, culture, art and so on. This mobile school is a good example of investing, which will certainly cost itself many times as much back. However, I would have asked about this youth guarantee. It appears that particular emphasis is to be placed on young people who have a great deal of need for support. What does this mean in concrete terms, and in what way is it reflected in all this youth work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u150	Mr President! Here again, government parties demand alternatives from the opposition. Here's three. First: secondary education for all. Secondly, improving the pass-through of study periods. And third: upper secondary schools also need structural development, and smaller upper secondary schools need a stronger economic back, that digitalisation and individual learning paths of the learner can be offered to all in Finnish upper secondary schools. For social democrats, it is not only the development of elite schools, but the reforms must apply to the whole population.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u151	And now Minister Grahn-Laasonen. — Would that be sufficient?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u152	Mr President! Finland has to save, not help crying in the market. All my energy at the moment is spent wisely on the EUR 6.8 billion spent by the Minister for Education and Culture in next year's budget. Everyone in this Chamber knows how painful the cuts in education are, and all parties in this Chamber have participated in the cuts in education in previous periods and now. I am quite sincere when I say that I believe that, despite these appalling cuts, we can also ensure the quality of education and research in the future by reforming our policies. I believe that we have all the prerequisites for developing Finnish education, research, Finnish education and knowledge for the coming decades. We have a major challenge here, because, as I said in the debate on the mid-term issue, I believe that the greatest threat to our education system is not these cuts but that it is in the slow pace of renewal, and that is what we are trying to address with the top projects that the government has six pieces of knowledge and education. These are very inspiring projects. Reform of comprehensive school. We also have a budget of 121 million over the next three years to make change in primary school, through new pedagogy, new learning environments and digital learning. There is an hour of exercise already mentioned in this Chamber for the day of every elementary school student, and there is a diversification of language teaching, very positive and very important issues where the previous government, under the leadership of previous education ministers, was unable to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u157	I'm sure the next minister will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u158	Mr President! Of course, I must wonder, as we have already wondered in the Civilization Division, whether this current situation is really known to the ministry and the Minister. It is hard to suggest that cuts in education are not the biggest challenge of Finnish education policy. Yes, I think that this relationship is beginning to be the case that we say in such a state of research and know-how that we can afford a cumulative cut of 3 billion in education during this term of government, which in practice means that 10 % will be cut over these former savings, and we would of course have to ask why the government does not contribute to canceling some of these savings, in which the wrong things were done over the last period and on top of that so much more. I think this is a really big choice of values, how we can have this when we know that the innovation and competitiveness of the OECD countries have been studied and the fact is that only through education and training, through investment in research and knowledge, has produced results. Now I'm gonna ask you one more time, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u159	All right, let's try to keep to the schedule as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u160	Mr President! They're cutting off education, and I'm sure they're cutting it too much. But I personally believe that our professional teachers and kindergarten teachers will be able to cope with this, and I welcome the fact that, under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, there is now a significant investment in teacher training and an increase in the number of kindergarten teachers. A very big thank you must be given for this hour's exercise project, which has been tried by many ministers in the past, now under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen. The Youth Guarantee is also being developed. Former Minister Ihalainen has also acknowledged that youth unemployment has not made it easier during the current Youth Guarantee, and it is good that it will then be renewed and taken over by clear people in charge. One of the things I would like the Minister to do here is the state interests of museums. There is talk of quite small sums at the moment, but they can be very fatal for many museums, and I would like to ask how this will ensure that long-term good work does not become unduly difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u161	Mr President! In fact, it was quite shocking to hear the Minister of Education himself dismissing the cuts in early childhood education and day care. Early childhood education has had a very important impact and importance in the Finnish education system that equalises inequalities. As a result of your presentations, we are in a situation where the most vulnerable families should themselves be able to cope with the right to full-time early education and there is a risk that some of these families will not do so. I was also rather shocked that, in the midst of the public debate in which we have now been, you did not say a word about children and young people with an immigrant background. It was these families, the children of these families, who in particular needed early childhood education, which has been shown to have a positive impact on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u162	Mr President! This debate will, of course, focus mainly on the budget appropriations for next year, and of course we in the Committee on Education are now looking at their effectiveness and so on. On the other hand, these key projects have a longer-term impact — up to ten years if it is important. I too think it is good, as Mr Heinonen said here, that we have invested in physical activity, an hour a day in physical activity. When we know that team sports are on the increase rather than individual sports — as you know, the Minister himself is an excellent volleyball player, almost as good as Mr Gustafsson as a football player
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u163	Mr President! After all, six months before the elections, the country's economic situation was still weak: debt continued, austerity was under pressure. It is true that teaching, knowledge has been cut in previous parliamentary periods, but it is just as true that all parties before the elections said that we are really in the mood, knowledge, education is no longer cut off, it is not possible to cut for Finland's future. It is a question of consumer protection, it is a question of teaching professionals, and it is a question of how they feel when this was promised just before the elections that there is absolutely no surgery. It is a question of consumer protection for voters when they were sworn that education and knowledge are the area that is not going to be cut. Yes, in addition to going behind these details, the government parties should now face up to the fact that electoral promises have been betrayed in this case, in addition to development.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u164	Mr President! Here we have already quoted economist Sixten Korkman, and if we are not listened to at this end, it is worth listening to an economist who tells us the significance of early education for the future of the child and also for adulthood. Our children and young people are increasingly living in a changing and highly complex world. Children and young people also need more and more adults around them. Do you think, Minister, that it is right in this time and in this moment to increase the size of groups? We also need to listen to our staff and to the teachers you highly value here — they only have two hands, that's all they have. One child added to the group does not mean that there will be four pairs of hands. So this situation is extremely difficult, and I understand that you too feel bad about it. And no one here in the opposition is opposed to reforms or new forms of reform, but when you talk about these key projects, it would be interesting to hear, for example, how you have heard, for example, the experts, whether these are the very key projects that are needed at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u165	Mr President! I am particularly concerned that research is now being cut off — and with a brutal hand. Among other things, the University of Helsinki leaves 100 million, and that is a terrible amount. Pharmacy compensation is a fee that should definitely be left alone here, because the University of Helsinki is doing research with money. In addition, it also gives money to other universities as so-called prescription fees. And now, if these cuts are carried out, that means that the negotiations will affect 1200 people. It will then need help to enable these people to be employed. This is something that simply cannot be done like this. I would like to ask the Minister: are you aware that this pharmacy compensation was being abolished in 2009 and then the EU Court of Justice condemned this act and the Constitutional Committee stated that it was unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u166	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Tolppa for this important speech. Minister, I have listened to all the ministers here and I have not heard that the previous ministers have been criticised in the way you have done. I would not have taken up this issue if I did not know what I am now saying: during the previous government, ministers Gustafsson, Kiuru, Ihalainen and Risikko took care of the youth guarantee. The Minister of your party, Risiko, was responsible for rehabilitation, that is, those who were in the most difficult position. I think that Minister Risikko did a good job in a situation where he has to work with thousands of people who are hard to employ and invest in society. I wanted to say this to the Minutes,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u167	Mr President! The Finnish field of education understands the need for relaxation and renewal. I'm sure lightening's all right for all of us. But the government cuts mean total liposuction for the Finnish education system, and that liposuction prevents its good renewal. A good example is precisely this youth guarantee and its subsequent version, the social guarantee system. What's changing? The money's completely gone. Two direct questions to you, Minister: Why do you speak the altered truth in public? You said, among other things, in Studio A that there is no alternative to surgery, although the Greens in this Chamber have presented you with that option many times. Are you prepared to consider that?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u169	Mr President! The Mobility School project is a great thing and has now been set aside for a total of EUR 21 million for three years. There is 90 million for teacher training for three years, of which next year's money is mainly spent on the introduction of digital materials and the development of digital learning. However, I personally would see that in the coming years it would be very important for some of this money to also be used to promote physical education, so that the Mobility School project becomes part of a permanent approach in primary schools. Then there is the question of this equality money, which has now been earmarked for EUR 10.5 million. Are there any more specific plans for what and on what grounds this money can be granted? Minister, you talked about regional equality, but now, for example, immigrant children come in proportion to some localities. For example, can it be thought that this money could be used to promote this education?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u170	Mr President! Now, as the Minister said earlier, new curricula for basic education will come into force, pedagogy will be developed, teacher skills will be developed with unprecedented efforts also through this digitalisation. At the same time, investments are made in equal access to culture and physical activity. Mr President! When there is no dispute about these cuts in school’s daily life, I would have looked to the future and asked the minister how the school day’s structure will change and how the school day’s structure will be reformed. When the government’s key project is to improve the accessibility of art and culture, how is it possible then to extend the accessibility of this art and culture?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u171	Mr President! Now that these self-government areas are being set up and social affairs are being transferred, I would like to ask the Minister whether you have had a debate in the Ministry on the transfer of secondary education to these self-government regions. Secondly, you spoke at the opening of the autumn season of the University of Lapland and spoke very strongly in favour of structural solutions and university unification. Since then, I've had a bad night's sleep, you can say that. What are the plans for these mergers, and is the position of the University of Lapland at stake by you? It is clear that university cooperation must be stepped up and profiled further, but, for example, raising the focus of Arctic affairs does not require these universities to be merged.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u172	Mr President! Although the government programme on education is limited, there are some worthwhile entries, such as this: the opportunity for teachers to focus on their core area of education. This is not so much a matter requiring financial resources as a development of new approaches. This is precisely what is hoped for in the field of education that the Swedish road is not our way. In Sweden, teachers spend as much as 48% of their working time on non-teaching activities. Such planning, development and reporting should be made the most necessary and minimum. Another thing that is closely striking is that the ove is indeed an ove and not one for which the work of everyone else in the teaching community is put together. How, Minister, will this opportunity for teachers to focus on the core area be promoted in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u173	My final speech to this debate, Mr Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u174	Thank you, Speaker! Mr Heikkinen, I really do not underestimate the role of mothers or fathers or grandparents in education, but we are talking about early childhood education,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u175	Now, the Minister has the last speech. Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u176	Mr President! Thank you very much for this hour-long debate and for the debate I will be happy to continue with you in subsequent fora. Tomorrow, of course, we will be discussing key projects here, of which knowledge and education will be one of the most important. I am well aware that there is concern about cuts in education, and it is precisely then that we need to find ways of working together to secure the core of education and research and to meet the skills needs of the future. As part of this concern, which we have shared in this Chamber in connection with, for example, the situation of universities, we have considered in the Ministry how we could better support talented young researchers and also try to create incentives for them to stay in Finland and study here and, on the other hand, to attract talented young researchers to Finland internationally to conduct research and thus add value to our surrounding society. In this context, we have considered a separate project with the Academy of Finland, which could be funded by our top project, 30 million of the Academy's concession powers, which are being increased, and we have wondered whether some of it could be targeted specifically at actions that would help young researchers and young scientists. Migrant children and young people were raised here, and that is good, because it is daily in my daily work at the moment, that we consider how we can better prepare ourselves for this changed situation, the increase in the number of asylum seekers, Finland's strong internationalisation and multiculturalism, and how we can build educational pathways for them, which will then support integration into Finnish society. We are currently dealing with the problem of the calculation date that has arisen here, and we are still bringing legislation to Parliament in this autumn, which will enable municipalities to receive funding from immigrant students also after 20 September. Mr Multala raised the issue of EUR 10.5 million for equality of opportunity, which I personally consider to be very important, and this is precisely what we wanted to preserve in the budget when the project funding was cut off, so that it could have funding to strengthen the most vulnerable schools in the weaker regions. In many cases, we are talking about areas where there is a need and there are, for example, schools where the proportion of immigrants is higher. At the university opening in Lapland, I went to talk about a clearer division of work in our university field, strong centres of expertise and clearer profiles. I believe that this work is important so that we can use our research and science resources more wisely and achieve better and better quality research and its impact on our society. Thank you again for this debate. There were a lot of things I didn't have time to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u177	We're going to the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Minister Mäntylä, 5 minutes for the first speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u178	Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is based on concerns about the balance of public finances and the livelihoods of the most vulnerable. This is also reflected in the key projects under the strategic objective "well-being and health" of the Government Programme, in which, among other things, service vouchers and basic income tests are carried out and the assessment of the allocation of housing-based social security. The administrative sector's share in the state budget proposal for 2016 is EUR 13.1 billion, which is about a quarter, or 24% of the state budget. The draft budget is EUR 364 million higher than the actual budget for 2015. The increase in expenditure was due to revisions of the needs estimates for social security and income security benefits. The central government's unemployment security expenditure for next year is estimated at EUR 2.8 billion, with an increase of around EUR 102 million. Unemployment security expenditure is affected by the estimated increase in unemployment. Therefore, according to the current estimate, the unemployment insurance contribution will be increased by 1 per cent, while the contribution increase for employees and employers will be the same, i.e. 0.5 percentage points. The unemployment insurance contribution for employees not covered by the fund is directed to the Social Insurance Institution to finance the basic daily allowance. The increase in the fee will reduce the central government contribution to the financing of basic daily allowance by EUR 46 million in 2016. The terms of the rotation leave will be changed in such a way that savings amount to EUR 50 million per year for public finances and EUR 21 million for the state. The savings for the government in 2016 are estimated at EUR 4 million and for public finances at EUR 10 million. Mr President! Health insurance expenditure is expected to fall to EUR 4.7 billion in 2016. The reduction in compensation is due, among other things, to savings in health care insurance, which will amount to approximately EUR 124 million in 2016 and the central government will account for EUR 55 million. Saving measures include a reduction in travel expenses, a reduction in medical and dental expenses and a cancellation of the entry into force of the Aura rehabilitation. However, the funding of health insurance will be temporarily adjusted for 2016 to finance discretionary rehabilitation costs of EUR 4.5 million by means of earned income insurance premiums. A total saving of approximately EUR 48,5 million in the state budget will be allocated to pharmaceutical payments, with an impact on public finances of EUR 108 million. EUR 58 million of the savings relate to the decision taken in spring 2015 to introduce initial own resources, to increase the basic reimbursement of medicines from 35% to 40%, and to other smaller measures to curb the increase in the cost of medicines. Of these savings, EUR 50 million will be implemented through new measures, half of which will be targeted at the increase in patients' initial and other responsibilities and half at pharmaceutical operators in a way that is still being explored. In order to counterbalance the savings, access to medical rehabilitation will be reduced, which will increase the need for funding by EUR 5.6 million. The impact on public finances is EUR 12.5 million. In addition, the level of compensation for adult rehabilitation psychotherapy will be increased to the level of compensation for rehabilitation psychotherapy for young people as of 1 January 2016. The income limits and the rate of reimbursement of sickness and parental allowances will be amended as follows: the limit on the income from work entitled to 70% of the sickness allowance will be reduced; the increased daily allowance for the first 30 days of the parental allowance will be reduced; and the right of leave for parental leave will be limited. These changes reduce the cost of employment income insurance but do not affect the share of the state. Mr President! EUR 4.3 billion will be earmarked for pensions next year. In 2016, the state will pay EUR 2.3 billion for national pensions and EUR 192 million for guaranteed pensions. Occupational pensions are mainly financed by insurance premiums for employers and insured persons. In accordance with the Government Programme, the pensioner's housing allowance as a benefit will be abolished on 1 January 2016 and pensioners will receive general housing allowance in the future. The impact of the change on the level of benefit for beneficiaries will be reduced by EUR 30 million per year. However, at a difficult economic time, the government is seeking to provide the income of the most low-income pensioners. The amount of the guarantee pension is adjusted annually according to permanent legislation by means of the national pension index.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u179	Follow the debate and I would ask those who wish to speak to get up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u180	Mr President! Today, more than 50 NGO representatives and MPs met in the Small Parliament under my leadership to discuss the synergies between cuts and savings in the category of social welfare and health care included in the budget. And there was a particular concern that these cuts now have the worst impact on people receiving a small pension who are on disability or old-age pensions, on the unemployed and on families with children. The housing allowance for the pensioner has been a lot public, but in addition to that, older people and disabled people suffer very much, and now their sick expenses will rise as a result of raising these ceilings, and the combined ceiling will be considerably higher than in the past. So travel expenses, medical costs, service fees, all these things, will rise and accumulate, then pile up for the same people. I would like to ask the ministers: do you, in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, have officials commissioned estimates of how these savings are being made for an individual citizen? And if this has not been done, is this a political choice, then, that savings should be targeted at the most low-income people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u181	Mr President! This budget proposal is indeed worrying, particularly from the point of view of pensioners on low incomes, and I would like to point out here that the Greens have today decided that we are going to leave the issue of the status of low-income pensioners to the government. As a result of government decisions, a large proportion of pensioners who are now holding on just above the poverty line will fall below the poverty line. In particular, it is worrying that the government will scrap the housing allowance for pensioners by transferring pensioners to the general housing allowance and in this way, in particular, will weaken the position of the lowest-income pensioners. And this is incriminating because the government is going to make many simultaneous weakenings of the status of pensioners, the combined effect of which the government has in no way assessed. So the question of the interim is coming up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u182	Mr President! For the future of Finland, it is particularly important for young people, the most vulnerable, disabled, pensioners, that the economy be balanced so that we do not get in the way of Greece. But when these cuts and savings are made, they must be done as fairly as possible, and that is what the government has tried to do. But when a lot of tax increases, withdrawals and cuts are made at the same time, it is very important that the effects are also assessed. And I would like to ask both ministers: is it possible for the government to really look at the impact assessments of next year's budget, make an overall impact assessment and add it to the general justifications as a complement to the budget, so that those estimates have been made and are then passed through in the general budget justifications? There has been a working group report on this at the Ministry of Finance, and that reform could be quite justified. Is it possible that the government would do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u183	Mr President! Politics is a choice of values, and here it was heard that the Finnish economy is being balanced at the expense of the most vulnerable. We have all received a great deal of contact with this housing allowance for pensioners, and a pensioner sent a message saying that he currently has an account of 84 cents a month after all revenue and expenditure. Do you think, Minister, that there is still room for cutting? At the same time, the share of sickness costs increases as the government increases the rates of social welfare and health services, as well as pharmaceutical costs and cuts travel expenses. It is also interesting that the government has promised to improve the opportunities for pensioners to live at home, but now it weakens them and drives new people to a livelihood hatch. Mr Mäntylä, is this your concern about the most vulnerable, as you said in your introductory speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u184	Mr President! The most important thing is that we take action to ensure that more work is carried out in Finland and thus tax revenue. That is why the central issue of next year's budget is that line of work. I'm afraid we're going to have to operate. The aim is to make cuts as balanced as possible, and it is good that index increases in income support, for example, are made so that the most vulnerable people are not cut off. Yet these cuts are very painful, but they must be made as part of this economic balance. I would like to say that we are seeking the most balanced solution possible, and Parliament must now evaluate this draft budget. And I would like to reiterate that I think it is very important that, in future, the general justifications of the state budget should have a population-based impact assessment, particularly for people with disabilities, pensioners and, for example, families with children. That is how we could have a debate here in common and with impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u185	Mr President! I quote from the report by the Inspectorate: "Studies show that support measures for children and young people are more productive than any other investment." Why are these investments being cut the most, why are these people with low incomes, those with low incomes, those in difficulty being cut the most? Is it not something you can certainly say for sure that it is an operation that costs more than savings? This package, which has now been given to us here, which will cut out almost everything, will produce such a huge bill in the future that it is actually afraid to think about it. I would like these things to come to some sense, because these are as lucid as anything can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u186	Mr President! In this speech, I would like to raise the issue of veteran rehabilitation. The budget proposes that almost EUR 232 million be allocated to support veterans next year, and that this would mean an increase of EUR 50 compared to this year's level for the rehabilitation budget for front veterans. This is a really great thing. But I ask the Minister how you see at the moment, what is the situation in the municipalities, when a very good decision was made during the last term of the government that municipalities should have information about veterans living in their own region, within their own municipality, so that this rehabilitation facility can be directed to people and then offer either home rehabilitation, i.e. open rehabilitation or institutional rehabilitation. How much of that money is being returned to the Treasury at the moment, is all this money actually being spent on veterans up to the last cent?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u187	Mr President! One of the main objectives of the government would have been to reduce inequalities and to care for the most vulnerable people, to have access to social welfare services, to buy medicines, to take care of their own health. However, the government is now balancing its own economy at the expense of the most vulnerable people and thereby driving people into income support. It cannot be that a decision on income support allows a person to receive a service or medicine, that cannot be the case. When an individual applies and gets to a health centre, for example, he will probably wonder if I have the opportunity to go there, if I have the opportunity, when travel costs also rise, whether I can go to a health centre or whether I can buy medicine. Those people are placed in a position where their own health in relation to food or medicine, can care for, becomes more difficult. I'm asking you,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u188	Mr President! It is true that cuts from this administrative sector are not nice either. They are hurtful, they are invulnerable, but there is also something there that I am sure we can take along in a good mood. During the previous period, we implemented an old-age law here in Parliament, and even if we had such a law, it is still not all the elderly's business in Finland. During the previous period, we also started to reduce the number of institutional care facilities, and as a result, the number of clients in home care will increase and increase even further. One of the key goals of the government is to improve the care of the elderly at home, to direct more nurses, to direct more helpful hands. I would have asked the Minister how this project might be progressing. The second is also the status of family carers and, among other things, the implementation of their statutory holidays. It is very important that these things are brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u189	Mr President! I would like to return to the Minister's speech that this budget is now running for the weakest. I would like to ask whether it is being promoted to the weakest by raising the EUR 16 share of the journeys to EUR 25, which doubles the cost and return journey to the doctor by EUR 50. In addition to that, you have to go to the lab, and you have to go to the treatment. I wonder whether it is right for these people on the lowest incomes, people on disability pensions and those on old-age pensions to even wonder whether they can afford to go to the doctor or afford to eat. Which is more important, the fact that this short-term trend is now aimed at balancing the state's treasury, or that we are making a controlled change and that even savings are targeted in such a way that they do not take the bottom off people's lives and drive them completely.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u190	Mr President! Here in the budget book at the Ministry of Social Affairs, we also find such a happy thing that it says here that this tripartite equal pay programme will begin to be prepared with the social partners in the future. On such a point, I would like to ask you that, although it has been the aim since 2006, that this year, 2015, this pay gap between men and women would have been reduced to 15%, in reality the pay gap has narrowed considerably more slowly, i.e. now by 17%. The overall assessment, which has now been made in this last report on the equal pay programme, states that we are seeking the measures that are now in place to promote equal pay, but we are also considering whether new means should be used. In other words, does the Ministry now have a view on such concrete objectives and possible new ways of doing so?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u191	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! After all, the government is now in the process of carrying out a social reform and the opposition has been left behind. However, perhaps over the last ten years, the biggest reform is going on. Health care for Finns is extremely important, and it works very well in some places. Social care is also being transferred from municipalities to these self-government regions. The question is: can the Minister explain to us how citizens' social care, substance abuse care, preventive work — in general, the activities and services that citizens need every day — will improve as a result of our having large self-government regions? And whether or not
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u192	On this subject, representatives of Mikkonen, Heikkinen, Taimela, Tolppanen, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u193	Mr President! Here are representatives Haatainen and Sarkomaa asking for these impact assessments and so do I. There are a lot of such measures here, such as raising the top roof of travel expenses and medical expenses and raising the level of ownership, that they probably often affect the same people. After all, this government has not now become particularly famous for making various impact assessments. I would really like to know if this has been done. And has this, for example, been done to remove the celiac allowance? It is only 10 million, but if it leads to many celiacs not being able to afford these gluten-free foods, it will do much more damage to our society and public finances to treat these diseases. That I'm really calling for these impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u194	Mr President! Congressman Haatainen raised a very important issue, these travel expenses. It is sad in itself that, in this economic situation, travel allowances have to be increased. In fact, I am encouraging the ministry to look for other routes in the future. This would almost be the top of the line. We're going to have hundreds of millions of dollars of taxis swooping around the county, taking maybe one grandma or grandpa in the back seat, and only get to see a doctor to get that Kela compensation. We have to find more rational uses for that money. It is there that the real savings can be made, that the taxi or minibuses and other people are more encouraged to use other modes of transport, and, above all, that these journeys should be combined. Let's use our senses, then we won't need this much money for nothing. No one has yet been treated in a taxi — perhaps given birth,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u195	Mr President! The ruling parties in power, especially the centre and the Finns of Peru, won the election on a rather soft cotton line. If you think about this budget and the budget for 2016, it is, unfortunately, a harsh one. Incoming is index cutters, reduced carer size, the right to day care is restricted, service charges are increased — this list could be continued indefinitely. In the form of a guarantee pension, you are prepared to give some 30 million, but you will cut 60 million out of the housing allowance for pensioners. And, as such a small discipline, this also applies to people with mental disabilities, which means that they are in a very unreasonable situation after these surgeries. Reducing social and economic inequalities should be one of the key projects of this government. All assessments of the impact of these decisions on people, that is to say, on our citizens, on service users, are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rehula, Mr Mäntylä, can you promise me that these estimates will come before these cuts are made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u196	And now, Minister Mäntylä, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u197	A wide range of issues arose here, and these impact assessments were now one of the things that was called for, and I will now take as an example this housing allowance for pensioners, which has been the subject of a great deal of discussion here: With a sincere heart, I can assure you that there was a great deal of work to be done in the Ministry. We went through those impact assessments, we took a dump, we bit, we thought about how it was targeted, and then we made a few subtleties to it. In other words, through this impact assessment, we made a decision in the government to reduce the impact, because we found that the reflections that emerged here also — these reimbursements of medicines and the increase in travel costs — are so strongly directed at the same groups that we want to do this kind of slighting. And we did it. The second thing is also when these reimbursements of medicines and travel expenses came up: Yes, we have also sought a model that specifically takes into account those people who are forced to use a lot of medicines but who also have to travel a lot. In other words, a model has been put in place to make it easier for people who need a lot of care and then go there, for example, by taxi. It also emerged from this that there is a need to improve the efficiency of these transports. That is exactly what I agree with. Last season it was also mentioned that it is not working in the best way at the moment, and this is one thing that the Ministry will certainly continue to assess very rigorously, and it will also, of course, work closely with the Social Insurance Institution and consider the ways in which the situation can then be improved. With regard to these reimbursements of medicines, there is also a model that has been sought in this saving of the reimbursement of medicines, which is in particular balanced in that it also reflects the social responsibility of the various operators on the different sides of the medicinal product. In other words, it is not only to be paid by the users of medicines, but it is also required that those operators — the pharmacies, the pharmaceutical companies — also have that responsibility here. Similarly, the government is committed to the development, promotion and future promotion of rational medical treatment, and it is through it that we want to strive to reduce the cost of medicines, but also to the fact that it makes sense and also makes sense that we do not feed people medicines that they do not necessarily need. Then, among other things, the situation of the elderly and family carers arose. Yes, we are investing in and investing in improving services for the elderly through the top project and also through the rest. Similarly, the situation and ability of family carers will be supported. Through major projects, we will implement a programme of family policy change, in which we want to make a reform, so that families can get the help they need in time, and that fragmented system will finally be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, it is intended that the first hour should be spent on the questions which are mainly addressed to Mr Mäntylä, and then Minister Rehula will make a introductory statement and then grill him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u199	Mr President! This government divides Finnish society in two: those who are better off and those who are worse off, those with low incomes, pensioners, families with children and the unemployed. These people and these families are being brutally operated on. This government is driving tens of thousands of pensioners deeper into poverty. This is offensive to the hardworking people who have built our common nation. It's a value choice. It's the wrong value choice. That is why, as has already been said here, we are going to do, together with the Left Alliance and the Greens, a mid-term issue that tackles the issue of pensioner poverty, the shortcomings in payments and taxation and the changes in unfair taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u200	Mr President! I admit that I am not very familiar with the division of duties between ministers, and it may be that some of the issues are addressed to Minister Rehula. I would have been interested in the Veterans' rehabilitation money, too. Parliament has made an official formal decision not to cut the rehabilitation money for veterans, and although it is now said that per veteran they will rise, the age of veterans will also rise, the average age will be 93 and the need for rehabilitation will increase. I would like to ask whether it would not be right for this money to be kept at the level that Parliament has decided on in its formal sitting. The 10% disadvantage rate of the war invalids is one of the problem groups. There are only about 600 of them, and I would like to ask whether it is time to include them in rehabilitation. Finally, the Kriha veterans, who are then a new group of veterans. The former Minister of Defence Haglund did a good job, but I understand there is still something to be done on the STM side in this kriha-veteran programme. I'd like to ask if it's already made it to the ministers' table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u201	Mr President! There are still too many people in Finland whose level of pensions does not secure a decent income. The poverty rate among people aged over 75 is as high as 19.5% in Finland, i.e. this is how much they live below the EU poverty line and nearly one third of those over 85. Thirty-nine per cent of those standing in the bread line last year were pensioners. The livelihood of many senior citizens is therefore worryingly low. Now the government is harassing this group of people who need a lot of medicines, the social welfare and health services' customer fees are rising, and the celiac allowance is also being removed from those who need it. Even old age nursing is apparently under degradation, even though it is at a very low level. This increase in the guarantee pension, EUR 23, will be watered down by cutting the housing allowance by EUR 60. This economic situation for pensioners will indeed deteriorate considerably over the next four years. For example, many people have really asked me whether I am buying drugs now or whether I am buying food when the situation is so tight. What, Minister, will I answer these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u202	Mr President! The opposition has repeatedly suggested that the most vulnerable, as it were, should be cut off. I understand that many cuts will, of course, hit those who receive different services and income transfers. However, I believe that austerity measures also include cuts in private health compensation. Is it not, then, my belief that this is first and foremost the high income and, at least, the better, higher end of the middle income? Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u203	Mr President! Of this housing allowance for the pensioner: The Minister stated that it has been shone down. In practice, this decision will mean that it will only be postponed a little later in time and next year, the new beneficiaries of the housing allowance for the pensioner will be transferred directly to this general housing allowance, i.e. they will lose, they will be cut off. I am also concerned about this issue of housing allowance and these cuts that are now being made, the question that the long-term goal of the entire kingdom has been that older people should be home longer, that disabled people should be able to survive at home and live in the familiar environment. Now, with these blackmails, we're blackmailing the possibility that people are really going to be okay. They still have to buy the cleaning for themselves, get the food. Many people also have to search outside for other services at home, and yet the amount of money available is currently minimal and is being cut even further. My question is: have we thought about how to ensure that people can truly survive at home and have decent ones?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u204	Mr President! Social legislation and our health services systems have evolved gradually. I agree with the opposition that there should be an assessment of the synergies that the government measures now planned would have with the livelihood of the most vulnerable. I myself know that in one of the major hospitals in southern Finland, for example, outstanding patient fees, i.e. debts for the disadvantaged, have tripled over the past three years. This is a good indication that the holes in our health services and social security systems are too large. We have to go and analyse what those holes are and block them in such a way that we can get into a fair service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u205	Mr President! At the latest at this stage, the Minister should now get to know his own bill. The fact is that this new law will be applied immediately to the new beneficiaries. At least that is what we members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Kela delegates have been told. So the relief you're talking about means only those former beneficiaries who have this kind of transition period. But the same surgery will hit them just as much. I would also ask the Minister that now that you are specifically intended to support informal care and home care, have you considered that this housing allowance for pensioners has had such a supporting element, which you are now removing. After all, general housing allowance is such a benefit per household, while the housing allowance of a pensioner has been personal. So you are now undermining families' opportunities to care for, for example, your own adult disabled person.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u206	Mr President! The pensioner has not benefited from the folded index that entered into force during the Lipponen Board of Directors 96. There are about 23,000 veterans in our wars, and the services they take home are not enough. I therefore hope that they will be taken into account and raised very soon. Similarly, as Mr Heinonen said, there are 600 war-affiliators, i.e. these 10%-disadvantaged, who remain in the pit and should also be taken into account. I would like to ask Minister Mäntylä: However, it was a relief that this $30 million was provided for the housing allowance for pensioners, and it will probably make things easier for many. Is it that no one now has to leave their home because the housing allowance is gone?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u207	Mr President! Finland is in difficult times, and it is most important for the future that today and tomorrow Finns have work. It is very important that part-time workers can also become more involved in working life. Especially for children with disabilities and disabilities — they have had compulsory education since the 1970s, and we have done a lot in education, but the gates of working life have not really opened up, and that is why, for the future, it is good for a good everyday life that one of the top projects is 'Participative pathways to work'. I hope that the Minister in charge will tell us how we are going to proceed here and that the matching of disability pension to earnings, the reform, will always be made worthwhile. That would be very, very important, because the work will become the tax revenue that will then pay both social security, social insurance and services. So we have to move forward on the line of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u208	Mr President! It is the savings and the restoration of public finances that justify the cuts in the category of STM. How much will public finances help if more and more people are covered by income support? How much will it help if more and more people are forced to pick up food from the bread line instead of the grocery store? And I am a little surprised, among other things, by Mr Sarkomaa's economic doctrine, that it is only natural that if I or Mr Sarkomaa reduce our own expenditure, it will not affect our own income, but whenever the state goes to cut its own expenditure, it will cut its own income immediately. And that low-income euro goes directly to that local store, and if more and more people on low incomes do not go to the local market, the local shop will not be able to employ or invest. How does this affect public finances in particular — the most low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u209	Mr President! We all know that when we are concerned about the livelihood of pensioners, it also means bad for the economy when purchasing power is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, leaving 60 for a low-income pensioner is a lot of money for many. This is a very serious matter, and I am very pleased that it has justifiably become clear here today that the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left are leaving the issue of this big draining problem — if you can say so — which is part of the government's thinking at the moment. I do not believe, Mr Rehula and Mr Mäntylä, that before the elections you promised pensioners that their livelihoods would be so severely weakened and cut. This is really wrong, and it is no wonder that we will also see pensioners next Thursday in a demonstration against all these people. When you say, Mr Government, that with less, it cannot really mean that there at Hervanna's Choice House then it is said that with less, that we will cut your pensions, that now you will get more. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, how these people feel?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u210	Mr President! In Finland, tuberculosis has been virtually the winning strain for a long time. However, in Tampere, for example, screening of tuberculosis has now started for people from high-risk areas. Different bodies guide those who have come from high-risk areas that have not previously been taken from the lungs in Finland. Several languages have been translated into a newsletter on tuberculosis and guidance on how to get a lung scan. I'm getting a record number of contacts from citizens. Many concerned people ask why we have the money to care for the health of these tens of thousands of immigrants when the people of Santa Finns wonder when they can get to the health centre doctor’s office, what the medicines cost or how long the lines of surgery are. The health system is already firmly established and is increasingly under strain,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u211	Let us take Mr Honkonen and Mr Heinäluoma and then Minister Mäntylä, and now that there are quite a few questions for Minister Rehula, we will give him a brief comment after Minister Mäntylä, and then a moment after that with Mr Mäntylä. This would be a marching order. — Now Mr Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u212	Mr President! One of the government's key objectives is to reform social security to be inclusive and to encourage work. I would have asked the Minister what the situation is with the basic income experiment and to what extent it will be taken forward next year. A few years ago, the SATA Committee proposed a reform of the social security system in a more encouraging and, as it were, less incentive traps. I believe that basic income could be one of the things that could encourage people to work and perhaps remove such small incentive traps when there is work. How will this be taken forward, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u213	Mr President! We still have a great debt of honour to the veterans of our wars, and it is very important that the promises that Parliament has made to the veterans, among other things in its solemn sitting, are carried out and that this group should live their last days and years as humanly as possible. The second point relates to the livelihood of pensioners, which has been a matter of great concern here, and which seems to be leading to an intermediate issue as well. There are different sections here — we have talked about the overall impact — we have the level of pensions, then we have this aspect of expenditure, which has been talked about a lot here, transfers, and then we have taxation, and now it seems that there is a rather poor development in all of them. On this tax side we have heard, and apparently it is still on the table today that the government is retranslating a multi-year consensus among the parties, that pensioners are to be taxed more heavily than those in employment. Has Minister Mäntylä made this point that taxation could also help the position of pensioners? Have you accepted this solution to increase the tax burden on pensioners in relation to those in employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u214	Minister Mäntylä, at this point three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u215	Mr President! Let me start with this basic income experiment, which has now emerged. The basic income experiment is progressing, which means that it is now in fact competitive, that it has been given the opportunity to tell the various parties how they would move it forward, and that the final decision will be made very soon, that on which model we are going to go further. So it's going very well here, isn't it? This also has to do with the fact that, when these loopholes in the social security system and the fact that there are incentive traps and flaws in the case of people who are also able to work part-time, we are in the process of carrying out this overall assessment of the housing-based social security system and, as I have said earlier, will, as I said, clean this whole system through and find a piece of the elements that will enable us to deal with these shortcomings. Then I will return to this housing allowance for pensioners. Indeed, as I said, there was an extraordinary amount of work to be done on it, and indeed it will not fall more than EUR 60 per month from anyone receiving housing allowance. In addition, it will be subject to a transitional period, and thus it will specifically protect the former beneficiaries, i.e. the new beneficiaries will be covered by the general housing allowance. But this is precisely the solution that no person would have to leave his home and that, because of this change, they should then move away from home. In addition, it is also good to note that income support is transferred to the Social Insurance Institution in 2017, and yes I personally see that it also has a very positive effect and the possibility that when these forms of social security are transferred one by one to the Social Insurance Institution, then people will also have the opportunity to apply for benefits that are, in principle, theirs but which in this confused system do not know or know how to apply for. And here, of course, it is very important that the Social Insurance Institution should then also be instructed that they have an obligation to state all the benefits that people are entitled to on the basis of low income. But we must also be aware that if these measures are not taken, we will very soon be in a situation where we will have to make much, much more painful decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u216	At this point, Minister Rehula, 2 minutes on the spot, and Minister Rehula will give his presentation later. — Now for two minutes, there were questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u217	Mr President! The debt of honor to our veterans of war is and must remain common to us. It concerns both the government, the opposition and then us politicians as individuals. Secondly, Mr Haatainen asked about home care, among other things. This government has EUR 270 million in negative fins for the last parliamentary term. An attempt is now being made to build a completely new model for the safe survival of the ageing population, people who hopefully live at home for as long as possible. Let's try to create a whole new model. One of the most modified statements of truth over the past week I have read about informal care support and services at home. The few things this government invests in in euros are living at home, support for informal care, family carers' holidays, cross-country crossings, 75 million per year. That's a tough number. One big thing was that we did not want to ruin that amount of euro by adopting a hasty budget law, but rather to prepare carefully how this is going to work out. The claim that family carers have been forgotten is the thing I have heard in recent weeks that contained the most altered truth. It's a pay-as-you-go program. Mr Laitinen-Pesola, from your history, you are well aware that the social partners will ultimately decide at the wage table how the euro for women and men is either closer or further apart. The government will do what they can and the Ministry will do what they can. Then, at the very end: the mentally handicapped are not, Mr Taimela, no disciplinary action on the board, but that is why we have made this kind of decision, with a ceiling of the loss of housing allowance of not more than 60 euros,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u218	Just a moment more, I hope, for Minister Mäntylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u219	Mr President! With regard to this housing allowance for a pensioner, I would also like to point out that there is no misunderstanding when people listen to and watch these debates, that the government is now proposing that next summer, for the new beneficiaries of the pensioner's housing allowance, it will be cut in full. It does not include this 60-euro cutting cap, but comes in full. According to Kela's calculations, and what is calculated here, a pensioner who receives approximately EUR 1000 a month, who easily rents 550 euros a month here in Helsinki, loses 100 euros at least, 600 euros a month to pay rent loses more than 100 euros. These figures are quite high when this is then put on the annual level, considering that they are people receiving a small pension. I would also like to ask whether this equality has now been revised and confirmed that it is in accordance with the Constitution that the same benefit can be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u220	Mr President! Today I just got a Kela researcher from Honkase on this sort of calculation that he had actually gone through this, gutted this on your law. According to it, for example, a pensioner living in Turku or Tampere or a medium-sized city who pays a monthly rent of EUR 600 will in future receive less housing allowance than at present as a result of this bill of yours. Indeed, this now applies to these new pensioners. This question of the way in which pensioners will be in an equal position in the future is really appropriate. How can you pay the same rent to a pensioner who pays the same rent to another 100 euros less than to another person in the same city? Will this ever go through the Constitutional Committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u221	Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, you said that you had carried out an impact assessment before these final decisions came, and you said that you have shrugged down your proposals. As a justification, you said, among other things, that these proposals will make it easier for those who use a lot of medicines and travel, and then you said just now that the relief of housing allowance will come because people do not have to move away from home. I mean, this kind of foundation seems really weird. While you are undermining people's access to medicines and then possibly these transports and then housing subsidies, you are weakening the livelihoods of people, pensioners. I would like to ask you what the basis for your impact assessment is, on which you are now basing this decision. Minister, did you listen? What are the reasons for your impact assessments, on which you now base your decision on these proposals?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u222	Mr President! I will return to that overall assessment that I mentioned in my previous speech: Now, if we think that there is a new beneficiary who does not have sufficient income and for whom EUR 145 reduced support for housing will be considered for survival. He will then continue to be the subject of an overall assessment of what other support schemes would be available for him to live on, to deal with medicines, travel expenses, various treatment-related issues. After all, no one is being forced to leave home, but this is now the whole review of our system, and I hope that an overall assessment such as that presented by Mr Sarkomaa will be included in the budget book.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u223	Mr President! I will continue to deal with this tax issue, because that tax money is, of course, exactly the same money for pensioners as the money coming from housing or pension, that will determine the total. However, I have been extremely surprised that the government is actually translating this for many years, one can say, from a decade of consensus, that pensioners are treated in the same way as workers in taxation. Is this, first of all, true that this kind of tax change will be made, that tax solutions will be differentiated between pensioners and workers, and have you wondered what this means for pensioners' livelihoods, and are you prepared to suggest that this will be corrected and that it will be maintained that pensioners pay it according to the same tax as those employed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u224	Mr President! This is an overall issue, and I too would like to see two more ministers present to answer this new question, which has now arisen with regard to the taxation of pensioners. We are dealing with tax laws today, and it would seem that, at the same time as the tax on employees is being reduced, the tax on pensioners will not be reduced, and once again the tax on pensioners in relation to employees will be tightened, and that simply cannot be right, because we have been working for years to correct this problem. When we talk about global impact assessments, it is absolutely essential that when the government makes decisions, such as decisions on pensioners, evaluates all these angles, whether it is taxation, housing allowance, medicines or this. I would therefore like to reiterate the question raised by Mr Heinäluoja: have you done something like this, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u225	Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Kiuru, and then Minister Mäntylä, for three minutes, and then we move on to Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u226	Mr President! Finland is living in very difficult times, and now everything has to be done in the government as well as in the Finnish Parliament, that the future is better. We must work to ensure that the Finnish welfare society is able to support those Finns who need help and support so that our social security system and services play. When cuts are made, there are a lot of people who are concerned, and we understand the concerns of pensioners in the assembly and certainly in the whole government as well, and that is why I made my proposal that in the future the state budget should have a population-based impact assessment, that there should be an understanding of how these entities, major changes, for example, affect families with children and pensioners, that it would then be easier to understand this whole in the future. A report has been made on this during the time of the Finance Minister, Mr Rinne, and I hope that this report will now be dug up and seen how it can be implemented, and perhaps as a complement to the general arguments, so that the debate can then take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u227	Mr President! Yes, there must be concern about the purchasing power of pensioners, and precisely from the point of view that this purchasing power and these effects on pensioners have not been adequately assessed. I find this debate very surprising because, from the point of view of equality and fairness, the hairs of the skin will rise. It has to be said that EUR 60 as a ceiling seems to be a very small amount of money, but this is a very large amount of money for a small pension. How can it be considered fair that in this way we can change the housing allowance for pensioners? I personally feel that we must remember that there are a number of other reforms coming up here, where payments are rising and national pensions are being frozen, where the tax on electricity, real estate and heating fuels also increases for sick taxis. Furthermore, when we consider that taxation is no longer fair for pensioners, because you have made the choice of values to increase taxation for pensioners, it results in a combination of all these and, after these sums, in unfair treatment for pensioners. Among other things, TNS Gallup said that four out of five, 83 per cent of Finns do not think this is fair,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u228	Mr President! Now that this is my last speech for the time being, and I am sure in the form of a mid-term issue, I will be able to respond more broadly to this situation of pensioners in particular, I will certainly not be spending any more time on it here. Well, I say so much that you have raised all these concerns — and yes, I understand your concerns. I understand them, and I fully understand the concern that people have at the moment about their own survival. But I would like to reiterate that, in this case, we did carry out comprehensive studies, impact assessments on how this harmonisation of the housing allowance for pensioners could be achieved with the greatest possible effect. With these estimates we have made, now that this EUR 60 contribution has been built there, it will make the situation of some 70,000 low-income pensioners much easier. Of course, it must also be borne in mind that this reform also increases the amount of housing allowance for other pensioners. So this is not just a cut for everyone, but also adds to the amount of housing allowance for the part. Here I noticed that Mr Hakkarainen was concerned about these health services. Unfortunately, he has already left, but I would have replied that the STM will continue to assess how we will have this social security system in the future when people receive a residence permit, but also how our health services system will be able to cope with this new situation and meet the new challenge and whether our service system will be able to meet all these challenges at the moment. That's what they do all the time. Similarly, we are very active in monitoring these health issues as far as asylum seekers are concerned. We will, of course, be prepared to react to them in the STM if such a situation occurs. As far as these impact assessments are concerned, this impact assessment on children, for example, is clearly one of the objectives of the leading project. In the future, child impact assessment would be part of this kind of active decision-making, whether it be in municipalities, ministries, parliament, anywhere. But it's part of this children's and family's top project. I believe that this situation for pensioners will certainly be dealt with in the form of an intermediate issue, and I will continue to do so. But I thank you very much for this debate and for your comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u229	Thank you, Minister Mäntylä. — Mr Rehula, on a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u230	Madam President! I will use a'replaceable' speech, that is, a few words on the budget of the Minister for Family Affairs and Basic Services, but at least part of the time I will spend 5 minutes answering questions already that we can move forward, because there have just been a lot of them. Madam President! We will have a debate on the key projects through the Prime Minister's announcement tomorrow. As a precaution and as a little warm-up already at this stage, what are the key projects: Key projects are about one-off efforts aiming at new forms of action. Health promotion, child and family policy, the service of the ageing population, especially at home, are issues in which, over the next four years, we are looking for something completely new, something that is really something to do, something to change what we are doing, and, as has sometimes been the case in history, we are going to put a minus sign and hundreds of millions of rags on the table and say do it. This is a big matter in principle, the aim of doing things like children and family, so that more things happen at home, a very big change in principle. On the Sote solution: I'm guessing there's gonna be another debate. I'm not spending any more time on it. Of this housing allowance for pensioners: I hope that the opposition will also remember that one third of pensioners will receive housing allowance. I am well aware that, from the point of view of the opposition, nothing is sufficient — some experience of living as a representative of the opposition party itself — but there are so many ways to do this too. We had a situation in which the housing allowance for a person receiving a EUR 743 guarantee pension was being cut by more than EUR 200; we have made preparations which now assume that no one's housing allowance will be reduced by more than EUR 60. And then I would also like to remind you that we do not have a draft law, as many people here are now proposing and claiming. The draft law is presented with an opinion, the draft law becomes a government proposal, and with the reservations the government has, the euro that is available, this work will continue, including impact assessments. Mr Haatainen started his first speech by saying that everyone will rise. I will only answer for my part: the government has dealt with the increases in healthcare payments, and the paper that has gone forward from my table does not include the withdrawals of the ceilings. Maybe there's something I haven't understood. Health care charges are rising, but the rate of illness is not higher in people with high rates of illness. The caps on payments will only change to the extent that the Act on customer fees provides for index changes. And now it seems that the indexes are more like a minus. The second point was raised here by its representative, Mr Sarkomaa: the level of income support will remain unchanged, the level of income support will not be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u233	Thank you, Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u234	Mr President! There is now a very large privatisation boom or a consolidation boom in the municipalities. There are a large number of long-term contracts, up to 15 years, which will help the private service provider to provide the services of the municipality or region for quite long periods of time. Now that the social welfare reform is still waiting for its arrival, it is becoming so that when these new social welfare areas are born, they will receive these expensive separate contracts in their own balance sheets tomorrow. There is a risk that costs will increase and that this region will not be able to make sensible, rational decisions, to improve people's services so that they will be for the benefit of people, for the benefit of citizens. I would now like to ask the Minister what he intends to do to stop this game and prevent our own common national wealth from being misused in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u235	Mr President! I will also return to this social reform. The situation here is that we in the opposition can only guess where this train is going now, since it has been decided not to involve the opposition in this preparation. However, it is a very big change in our Finnish society, where we are used to having a democratic body that prepares things, and of course the government is democratic to the greatest extent, but when it comes to such a major reform, it would be good to involve the whole parliament and also the opposition parties. Now I would like to know, since the centre is also a large municipal party, how it has been thought that municipalities will manage this preventive work in the future and how social services will be managed in practice. How will they improve by now putting them in these large self-government areas, where we have no more information than the media can get? At what point will Parliament receive from this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u236	Madam President! In order to avoid any misunderstandings for those following this debate, I would like to quote from the previous debate: The impact assessment carried out in Kela on what happens to the recipients of housing allowance according to Kela's calculations, i.e. all income categories have significantly more households with reduced housing allowance than the households with which it grows. These households with an increase in housing allowance are losing a small percentage in almost all income categories. This should be noted in the Minutes. I would like to ask the Minister how the government intends to promote an increase in the number of asylum seekers in the municipalities. Finland has signed the Istanbul Convention, but we are far from having the same number of asylums. What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u237	Mr President! An interesting debate was held here on early childhood education, and I would have changed it in such a way that what is the responsibility of families for education, which is the responsibility of families for knowledge, for education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u238	Madam President! In fact, I will come back to what Mr Ruhula mentioned just now when he referred to informal care. He's obviously referring to the messages I gave him or the press release. It is quite true that the government has said in its own government programme that it will improve the position of family carers, but this budget will not allow this to happen. Minister Ruhula himself has said that this will happen later in the spring, and we will see that in the future. I support this view, just as I did in recent discussions, that, firstly, the government cuts the housing allowance for the pensioner, increases the cost of medicines and reduces the staffisation of services and increases the cost of social and health care services by up to 20 per cent. Minister Ruhula has just said,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u241	Mr President! Either way, it's always the wrong way around. First of all, the opposition, with all its strength, is accusing the government of failing to act now, for once in this reign. It would not be in such a situation if it had not happened that the previous government failed in the process of social reform and also in the process of moving the structural package forward. It's time to make some decisions. I very much appreciate the fact that Minister Ruhula really took time and carefully went out to prepare this informal care package. EUR 75 million more for family care families that are valuable, often hard-working, and it is good that it is being prepared carefully, and I hope that the opposition will also come up with proposals on how this money will be spent. The previous government was very hard hit by the National Audit Office for Structural Policy savings solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u242	Mr President! Yes, the opposition has indeed been able to accuse the government of hearing ordinary people. But I would like to thank the Minister now, in honor of the week of the elderly, for telling us that it is the elderly who are also involved in the development of informal care and in the development of family care for the elderly. Perhaps they have some view of these things that should be done. However, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister about agricultural leave. The Ministry of Finance insists that savings of EUR 20 million be found in operating expenditure. However, if, for example, it appeared that it could be estimated that the government's proposal in the statement would save more than EUR 20 million, then whether the government's proposal could be modified so that those savings would be:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u243	Madam President! I too would like to thank the Minister for his good speech and for once again telling us here, among other things, these contributions to the elderly in the coming period. War veterans have also received some additional funding from previous parliaments in their amending budgets, and thanks have also been given to the former government and the previous parliaments that this has happened. Congressman Ritva Elomaa brought up the veterans here. I would have asked about the elderly, but also about all of us: a very important issue, hospice care. I understand that it is also recorded here in the Government Programme, that efforts are being made to equalise and improve these hospice practices in Finland. I understand, of course, that there is no money available and that we must find ways to address this issue and improve it in a way other than money. Perhaps the Minister has something to tell us about how this is going?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u244	Mr President! Perhaps, after all, the most important effect of the Government reform package is this social reform. It is important for human health, but it is also important in view of the government's estimates of future public expenditure. I share the concern here about how this preparation will take place. It is not good that such a major reform is being prepared in such a way that not all parties are at the table. It would be a better result if we were to go along with the model that was achieved at the end of the last parliamentary term to make joint preparations. But another issue that is also a very great concern, is this representative Haatainen mentioned the question of whether this field is now spreading to the very hands of the end, that is to say, this kind of unbridled privatisation, in which private companies with municipalities make big long deals at the last minute, and thus these government-planned savings remain just hanging in the air. There are hundreds of millions of savings for this parliamentary term, billions of savings for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u245	Madam President! My question relates somewhat to what Mr Heinäluoma referred to. During the last parliamentary term, the centre quite rightly insisted that the reform of the social economy be carried out in a parliamentary manner, and in my opinion, for justifiable reasons. Does the Prime Minister's centre now disagree with the opposition party's centre? In the context of the war reform, this parliamentary term has gone with a completely extinguished lantern. There has been one good report, but last week, in Question Time, Prime Minister Sipilä said that big decisions on social welfare reform will be taken within a month. I mean, within a month. The Sote monitoring team had not yet been called even once. How can we constructively support the opposition in these structural reforms if we cannot say our word on this preparation in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u246	Mr President! I would like to return to the previous debate in relation to Minister Rehula's comment, in which he quoted the word 'coherence' I used. Minister Ruhula, people with mental disabilities are certainly not a mere coercion of the opposition, quite the contrary. We are very concerned about their continued survival, this time for the reason that they are also affected by this reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners. I want to be truthful in this Chamber, even because of the minutes. Why did I use that word? I used that word because I have come across representatives of the government party here who have told me otherwise that the reduction in the housing allowance for the pensioner is not directed at people with disabilities. That is why I drew attention to that word and perhaps I used the wrong word for Minister Rehula's thoughts. But I really hope that now that you have promised to make these impact assessments before the surgery decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u247	Madam President! Like many other representatives in this Chamber, I would be interested in the stepmarks of the wars. Whatever the structure, I think it should meet certain conditions. Firstly, public service provision should not be undermined. The spiral of competition, in which public operators would have to compete for their own services, would be costly for the public. I also hope that this integration will take place and that these seamless care chains will become part of our health care system. There is also a government programme record about this Swedish model and freedom of choice, and I would urge you to stop and think for a moment about whose freedom to choose here is being promoted. The main focus should also be on prevention from medical treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u248	Mr President! My thoughts are also around these wars, especially since in North Karelia this Siun sote is almost complete and in this autumn it is still a matter for the council. We are building this social model there on the basis of what was achieved as a result of the work of the previous government and, in fact, as a result of the work of the whole Parliament. I would now like to ask the Minister how, then, to adapt to these new ideas of the government the work that has been done in North Karelia. There's been a public movement ahead of us. There has been a movement from the point of view of cooperation. It has been left out of the perspective of transparency. In what way are these now involved in this forthcoming government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u249	Mr President! Last season's saddest tragedies in the area of STM, that's what you can say, was the case of little Eerika. A great deal of work was done during the last term of government to ensure that such a tragedy could never happen again. I would now like to ask the representative of the government what elements the government's proposal on STM now contains, that we can guarantee that there will no longer be similar tragedies in child protection during this period. What has been on the agenda is that child welfare workers have a considerable number of customers in relation to what the law says and where their time is sufficient. Is there any improvement in this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u250	Mr President! I would also like to ask about the question of the war in the sense that last season, in the preparation of the war, we also discussed a great deal of funding and this financial preparation was not completed. There was also a lot of discussion on the theme of'money follows the patient' at that time, and I know that this debate will continue. I would like to ask Minister Rehula now: Are social and health services becoming market-oriented, or are they acting as Minister Berner is doing, and did he say last week with regard to VR, which means that the market economy is strongly involved? How does the funding of social welfare and health care work? Will this money follow the patient system to include the next funding option?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u251	Mr President! Finland differs from other European countries in that we have much more limited freedom of choice for the patient, the person. I think it is a good idea for Finland to have legislation on freedom of choice so that competition can be overcome. In particular, in the case of people with severe disabilities, competitive tendering makes excessive situations. In the case of freedom of choice legislation, the state would define the quality criteria for the sector which services are required, and then the service provider should be the third sector, the private sector and the public sector and the person should choose. There are good examples of this in Britain. Good solutions have been introduced, especially for family carers. I suggest that as many people as possible get to know this. But the good news is that a follow-up group has been appointed for the preparation of social services, and it would be very important for it to meet soon. I'm sure the Minister will tell you about these steps here. I think it is important now that Mr Pöysti has been appointed as project manager, that before those regional selections are made, regional solutions are made, so watertight impact assessments are made. I am referring here to the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u252	I will give two more speeches, followed by five minutes for Mr Rehula, who are Mr Kantola and Mr Tölli.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u253	Mr President! Today, the Constitutional Committee discussed the report of the Chancellor of Justice of Parliament. After all, the Chancellor of Justice is one of these institutions which evaluate complaints from citizens. We asked which type of complaint has grown most recently, and we heard that complaints that people feel that services have been taken away from them and that instead of services being close, then digital, electronic systems are being used to deal with them. Some citizens, however, are unable to use them, lack capacity, perhaps not even equipment, and so have come a long way from services. Well, in this development of health care, of course, digitalisation has enormous potential, and it is important that progress is made, and it is also important that the patient's and the customer's autonomy be promoted. But how will the government take care of it when we still have quite a lot of citizens, whose self-interest is very weak and who do not know how to use these digital tools, that their access to services will be secured in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u254	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä's government has been operating for about four months, and now the first legislative proposals and this budget proposal are coming to Parliament. I have followed this debate, and I am particularly surprised by what the SDP has said in the sense that it seems that everything has been broken down at once, even though decisions have not yet been taken. Where are your options? You had four years of the Minister of Finance's chair and four years of the Minister of Basic Services. This government hasn't had all the trouble yet. Yes, you must make clear, constructive choices. I feel like everything's been wrecked now. Of course I understand that the opposition must be criticised and criticized, but yes this kind of attitude is of course challenging, and the same seems to be true for the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u255	But let us take this opportunity, Mr Lindtman, and then Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u256	Mr President! I have learned to appreciate Mr Töll as an amicable and often very wise and far-sighted representative, but I would not have believed that he is now taking part in this same song, which has already been heard in this Chamber. First of all, let us go over this once more: the government has only published the budget a week or so ago. According to Parliament's rules of play, we will bring our own alternative budget as soon as Parliament decides that it can be dealt with, and we have told it here many times. We have put forward alternatives starting with these rail cuts, then ending up with all those reforms, including this war. And I think that what matters now is whether we all agree — whether we were in the government or the opposition before and after the elections — that it would make sense to bring the war to the end in parliamentary terms, or not. This is a huge reform coming up, a huge tax reform
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u257	And now for the answer, Minister Rehula. Could be in place or on that podium, whatever, and five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u258	Madam President! For the second time: only Parliament's policies, which are polite to call colleagues, and only the fact that some words are in place and not used, prevent me from using a word and rhetoric other than: it is not easy to agree with what the opposition has said over the past week about whether to invest in self-help, whether to invest in home care and care. Only the rules of correctness between us, which have at least once been in force, prevent Parliament from saying any more. We're going to be dealing with some major projects tomorrow. Once again, there is going to be a substantial, permanent EUR 75 million increase in informal care. Now we are looking for a model in which that money does not go to general state contributions but that targets that new money genuinely, really, to the survival of family carers. I accept my responsibility for not allowing the law to be prepared in the budget timetable. I did make sure that I didn't fool around any more than I've done so far in this matter. But it is totally unreasonable to say that no effort is being made on self-help during this parliamentary term. There is a desire to make a good law and to bring in a proposal for money in the first amending budget or another, how this year is going to start, and that law will come into force from the beginning of July next year. This should be reasonably clear. We can continue the debate on this too, but that is it. Madam President! The second point, this social reform, is a little bit the same as in the previous subject: Firstly, the first parliamentary meeting is 13.10. 3 p.m. Secondly, even after this debate, I cannot help but marvel at the suspicion of the work that has been done over the years since we are the first in the world to integrate social and health care, we are doing it horizontally, i.e. "so" and "you" together, and the basic level and the special level together – it may be that I have the wrong papers, but it seems that someone else has read some other papers in this Chamber, when this too has been questioned in this debate since what the municipalities are doing. After all, last winter's presentation was based on a government proposal received by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which was assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave three steps forward, all of which were consistent, for example, with the need to organise and provide social and health services in this country in a larger area than one municipality. In a larger region than one municipality, either through a joint municipal board model, an autonomous region or by the State. It was the work of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u261	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for this last one. It is good that the parliamentary group is meeting, but it is still the case that it is just a monitoring group, it is not really a parliamentary group. That is what we have been calling for here, which is why we did not go down the road now when the previous government did it, and the centre and the Finns of Peru were also involved in that parliamentary working group. Now that model is no longer acceptable to the government, and that is regrettable. Mr President! With regard to this Swedish model, when it was in this previous round of debate, I would say that the Swedish model should be considered to be the best bits, because there are also good points in that model, but it is not worth repeating the mistakes that have been made in Sweden. But it must be borne in mind that at least I do not know whether there is a ministry or whether the minister has any information as to whether there is a model anywhere else in the world which has:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u262	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Ruhula for taking steps to curb this privatisation boom. It is very important because if this reform of the social and health care service structure is to be brought to the port and so that it will also produce the result, namely better services, better service packages for people, for citizens, then it must genuinely achieve its integration. If private persons are there now picking up raisins from buns, it will result in the public being left with the most heavy ones to deal with. It is very important that this social reform can now be fully involved, Parliament as a whole. That is why I support the idea that the views of all parties, including the opposition, are genuinely taken into account. The group has been set up as a monitoring group, it is in this way, and it does not correspond to what it was during the previous parliamentary term, when this parliamentary preparation was respected. Then
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u263	Mr President! I share Mrs Hatainen's view of this privatisation and its impact on this overall economy. There is a great deal of talk here about administrative patterns in the social welfare reform. Instead, next year's budget is on the table. It can be influenced in every operating unit by considering how to implement this integration, as highlighted by Minister Rehula, as soon as possible. In your war, in Eksote, these models are being taken forward, introduced, decided by the municipalities. Ultimately, in the case of Eerika, it was precisely this that no safety net was created around the individual citizen. There were misjudgements, it was evaluated by the court, and it was a misjudgement. At the moment, the aviators react in such a way as to look at security, new security systems are being created, which are taking resources away from the few social services experts available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u264	Madam President! It is good that 75 million will be invested in informal care and this proposal will be prepared next spring. I certainly do not deny that. It is a great thing. But, Minister, you cannot deny that other decisions taken by the government also affect and weaken the family position of family carers. This is about cuts in the housing allowance for the pensioner, increases in the cost of medicines, increases in travel expenses, increases in social and health care charges by more than 20 per cent, which has a real impact on the ability of customers and family families to acquire services. All of these, as a whole, affect the well - being of many other citizens, but it also affects the situation of family care families. The problem is that many social services are not linked to the customer charge cap system through which these people — if they use a lot of home services and similar services — may not be able to afford everything they need in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u265	Mr President! It is excellent that the Parliamentary Social Observatory is now starting its work on 13.10. 3:00 p.m., it's on the calendar. Sote reform must now be successful, but the fact is that it is in the long term when it will have a tangible impact on basic health care services there. The use of the Finnish health centre is very unequal when compared to other Nordic countries. There the unemployed, pensioners and families with children will have to wait, and the most important thing is that measures should be taken to strengthen basic services already during this parliamentary term. In the government negotiations, we agreed on a service voucher experiment. It would be good to hear how that experiment goes forward and how we could encourage municipalities to use the service voucher more, so that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could agilely provide these important basic services close to people. I did not see the clock there, but, Mr President, I would like to ask one question that Parliament has paid attention to five times — that is, stick to the treatment system, the services of substance abuse mothers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u266	Madam President! I am also concerned about this privatisation. We've got it. In Lapland, for example, the municipality of Posio now plans to privatise its health care in the December council. I also hope that the minister will be in touch with it — the conditions for influence are good, because 16 of the 21 delegates are centremen. On these issues of social welfare and health care, I would like to ask what the consequences of this are for such a municipality, if this kind of solution comes that it privatisation goes. Will they have to pay not only for their contract with the private sector, of course, but also for their share of the social services provided by the Autonomous Community, or are there any other consequences? I hope, of course, that local services in Lapland will also take care of long distances and that there will be no democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u267	Mr President! We are now dealing with the draft budget for next year, and we are dealing with it in an exceptionally difficult economic situation, in a situation where very little can be done to increase the budget. In this situation, it is very important that we are able to cooperate, at least to the appropriate extent, across government and opposition borders, to look together. Somehow it does not seem reasonable that, in this situation, once the government has begun, the SDP, which remains in the opposition, is acting as if it had never been in the government. You left quite a legacy, and I am not going to criticise the actions of the previous government. It is natural for the opposition to criticise and criticise and put forward alternatives, but it seems as if everything has been broken down in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u268	Mr President! I'm not sure I understand Mr Töll's indignation. There has not been any real criticism here. After all, the good line that has been hoped for here since the last parliamentary term is that it is possible to work together so that all parliamentary forces are involved in the preparation. Isn't that a reasonable wish? And I remember that, with regard to the municipal reform, the representative Mr Tölli represented the same position two parliamentary terms ago. And then another thing: in Mrs Hatainen's speech, we offered a constructive proposal to whistle this game off in the municipalities so that it does not happen that the municipalities are making big privatisations, 15-year contracts, and then postpone them to the new self-government regions. That was a constructive performance, Mr Tölli.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, two more replies have been asked, namely from Mr Heikinen and Mr Sarkomaa. Is there anyone else who still wants to use it, because then the Minister will reply at the end and then we will move on to the list of speakers? - There's more here. — — — — So, Mr Heikkinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u272	Mr President! Indeed, this is a budget proposal for next year and not actually a social reform, but it is always a happy place to discuss what you want to see in tomorrow's paper or on tonight's TV. The Government invests in big money: EUR 130 million in key projects related to well-being and health. Is the Minister in any way able to illustrate that programme of change in child and family services, for which EUR 7 million is set aside for next year? There has been a great deal of concern here about how these young people of our future will fare when everything is cut off. But this view that there is still something to be done in families and homes and that they want to take responsibility for their own children,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u273	Mr President! Among the Government’s key projects, public health 2.0 — that project that aims to work together with the organisation field, that every Finnish person has the opportunity to make health-promoting choices in their everyday lives — is a good project to reduce the sustainability gap. By getting people to promote their own health, perhaps to move a little more, we can promote good working ability, ability to function and also public health. I salute that project with joy. One of the reasons why this debate is taking place on a very large scale may be that the opposition parties here only offer that 'no' is simply not possible, and the alternative is not yet clear. That is not the fault of the opposition alone, because our procedure has been such that alternative budgets will not come until later. I would suggest that, in future, the Bureau consider that, when the government's budget proposal comes into the Chamber, the opposition should also propose that we compare them and hold a debate on one leg.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u274	Mr President! Perhaps we can say to this last point that if, with the support of the representative in Sarkomaa and the partners, we can get the same type of preparation machinery as the government, for example, we will certainly be able to reach this timetable, that is to say the same size as the government. For the time being, we will have to settle for the machinery for these information services, which has been improved by the President and the Bureau in the last period. But on this social reform, I would like to say how this social reform now relates to this budget for next year. This is a huge reform which the government itself has estimated to have quite a big impact on, the savings of EUR 3 billion. And first of all, here...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u277	Mr President! In the direction of the government, I am wondering this now. Maybe there's some misunderstanding here, maybe that passage between here and there will filter these speeches. In my speech I wanted to offer cooperation because during the previous period I saw that parliamentary cooperation worked, and everyone must have understood that the proposals that are being drawn up during each government will then have to be dealt with by others who are responsible and bound up in the future government. In that sense it would have been very fruitful if such a truly parliamentary study group had been. But if the minister makes sure that this monitoring group is able to work in such a way that it can have a genuine influence there, it is, of course, welcome. And when I said that and asked about these privatisations in those municipalities, I will do everything in my power to support the Minister in getting this over with, because yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u278	Mr President! In my speech, I meant the actual budget rather than the reform of social security. Of course, it is good that this too is being discussed, and it will certainly be the subject of long discussions. But today we have resumed the discussion of the budget that started last week. I have been following this debate throughout the day and I wanted to address what this situation has seemed like. I hope that in these discussions and in dealing with this budget, the situation as a whole, we will be able to look more at this economic situation together and the means of coping with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u279	Three more speeches, Mr Henriksson, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Kiljunen, and then the Minister, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u280	Mr President! The question, which is also very important and which is directly linked to the budget, is about violence against women, and it has already been said here that we have too few of these shelters in Finland. I would now like to ask the Minister what is the Government's programme of measures: what timetable does the government think we can achieve what we have been set for? We know that we are still a long way from that, but the important issue is indeed at stake. Then I would also have asked the Minister what is the situation at this stage with regard to the ratification of the UN Convention on the Disabled. It was intended that we, during the last term of government, could have reached such a stage that it could have been ratified, but it did not go so far as to say that this could have happened, so I hope that this government will continue with the ratification work and that effort, and I would also like to know at what stage this issue is currently at.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u281	Mr President! I was a member of the Government Party last season, and I was part of both social welfare steering groups at the time and I remember well when the centre of the opposition in particular called for the opposition to be included in this steering group because, as has been said here, social reform is a big project and it is important that it is carried forward over the parliamentary term. I have been wondering where the centre has forgotten this idea, which you very much brought up last season, that it would be important that in the mess not only such a monitoring group but indeed this kind of steering group, in order to ensure that parliamentary consensus over the parliamentary term is by the fact that this reform is really getting ahead and to the finish line. As far as these minority rights are concerned, I too would like to ask: Last season
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u282	Mr President! One more question for the Minister. Social welfare reform is a very important reform and, in this context, municipalities are currently considering how these standards can be dismantled in future in social and health services and whether there may be some laws that could be relaxed. For example, the early childhood education law has been discussed today, but these discussions are also taking place in the field of social and health services. I would like to ask the Minister how the ministry and the government will see to it that, in various parts of Finland, when these different laws are set to relax and dismantle, citizens are treated equally and equally in social and health services, that this dismantling of standards does not mean that, depending on the municipality or social welfare area in which they live, they will continue to receive the services unequally.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u283	And this debate will be decided by Mr Razmyar, please, and then by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Henriksson raised a very important point. Of course, much was said last season about this number of shelters and, above all, about its inadequacy. After all, Finland has signed the Istanbul Convention, but the measures have been limited in this respect. Next year, the shelters will also not receive commitments from the municipalities, and of course this uncertainty will have a great deal to do with many NGOs and these activities, which specifically provide shelters. And then, on the other hand, I would also like to ask whether the government also has some kind of measures for this type of violence against couples and their families, particularly this preventive side, because at the same time preventive work is also needed when we talk about this corrective work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u285	Minister Rehula, five minutes. Then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u286	Madam President! Representative Kiljunen asked about the perusal of the standards and the qualification of municipal tasks, how to ensure equality. On the day that we have new areas in the country, which are responsible for organising services, equality will immediately improve. In the meantime, current legislation goes on and within the limits of the resources and possibilities that exist, including control. Istanbul Convention: International agreements must be adhered to. We have about 140 places to stay and shelter, and we should have 500 of them. Congressman Henrikson, direct question, direct answer: I don't know when we have 500, but this is part of the "to do" list. Here too, I believe that it is not just the euro that is decisive; it is also possible to look for other means. But in order for us to be able to comply with the international agreement, it will require the 500 seats. Then this self-determination law. The representatives who were here last year remember that it was around a year in the parliamentary process, and then I was asked, as chairman of the committee, whether time should be spent on this international agreement, passing the sovereignty law — Mr Henriksson knows the background much better than I do — but then, in January-February, a decision was made not to force a bad law. This is still in the working group phase, it is part of the series of'memory places', we have to ask for time to come when it comes to preparation, because we passed a law here, but there was a statement — this time a statement that really matters — that is to say, we had to leave the situation open with regard to this self-determination law. Then there was the question of preventive services. After all, the municipalities and the cities and regions that invest are doing well, whether it is child welfare or other services that really and genuinely invest in family work, in work at home, in the situation between parents and children. We've got screens. We have good models in Finland. One thing is the timetable for the war, and anyone is preparing it, it is that these good models can actually be made available to everyone. It is a matter where we have a lot of projects, we have a lot of work to do, we have a lot of skills. Some people do. There was this case, Eerika. I know that Helsinki has broken its own service chains, and it was about knowing that it was not just from A to B. Can this ever be avoided? I hope so. Farming was in the previous question battery. If EUR 20 million is reached, then when the consultation has taken place, it will be changed, but I, as a minister and the government, will have the burden of EUR 20 million. Congressman Kantola asked about the digital services. We should all be concerned that we will be able to save euros by improving the ict and digital services, but we must take into account the situation where we always have people who, because of their own fitness, cannot make use of digitalisation. This is the kind of thing that needs to be here behind the ear, not just behind the ear, but also at the memory site. And then about this mess. I repeat what I said earlier. It is up to us all to take this forward together. It has been wonderful to hear reminders of the parliamentary work of the last parliamentary term. My memory extends over four years, and there are different situations and stages where parliamentary work was respected and a little less respected. Then, as far as this social reform is concerned, it will be the last. Congressman Henriksson, I have information that New Zealand is looking for the same type, but we are the first in the world to build social media, because we have, among other things, South Karelia and Kainuu displays that by tightening up service chains the crowding down, services are improving
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u287	Thank you to Minister Rehula and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u288	Madam President! There are still too many people in Finland whose level of pensions does not secure a decent income. The poverty rate among people aged over 75 is high in Finland, 19.5% of them live below the EU poverty threshold and nearly one third of those over 85. Thirty-nine per cent of those standing in bread queues last year were pensioners. There is therefore reason to be concerned about the future of many senior citizens. A large group of people in need of medicines are vaccinated by increasing the ownership of medicines, by increasing the social and health care fees, and by abolishing the celiac allowance for those who need it. Even the current government is going to reduce the size of care for the elderly, even though it is at a very low level at the present time. The welcome EUR 23 increase in the guarantee pension will be watered down by cutting the housing allowance for the pensioner by EUR 60. Over the next four years, the economic situation of pensioners and those with high levels of illness will deteriorate considerably. A large number of elderly people have to wonder whether to buy food or medicine when there is no money left for both. These decisions are rather difficult to understand, because more and more older people are trapped in a poverty trap where money is simply no longer enough to live. Thanks to the youth guarantee for the top project of the last government term, Finland has the lowest long-term unemployment among young people in the EU countries. As a result, around 70 per cent of unemployed young people have received a job or study place within three months of the start of unemployment. Last season, some EUR 60 million was allocated to the Youth Guarantee (YEI) per year and, when added to this, the efforts of the Adult Skills Programme to provide education for under 30-year-olds without a qualification amount to almost EUR 100 million per year. The government is reducing this to a minimum. It is very shortsighted to save for the future of young people. The working career of young people without at least upper secondary education will be about ten years shorter than that of those with at least upper secondary education. In the future, education will continue to play an important role. Creative destruction means industrial restructuring, in which efficient organisations survive and inefficient are destroyed. The old structures will break down and new ones will be created with new technologies and new operating models. Jobs are disappearing, but the losses are beginning to turn into new jobs in new areas. There may no longer be a demand for the profession once trained. Technical progress threatens up to 36 per cent of occupations over the next two decades. A person may have to be trained in more than one profession during his life and change fields several times. Lifetime education has become a necessity. We Finns are in this very situation of creative destruction. With globalisation, digitalisation and robotisation, the structure of working life has changed and will continue to change. The stone legs of Finnish exports, the forest, electronics and metal industry, are in difficulty except for the chemical industry. In this situation of creative destruction, at least education should not be spared. High-quality education from early childhood education and primary education to secondary education and higher education, without forgetting adult education, creates the knowledge base from which Finland is pushing forward. Mr President! The government's cuts to universities and universities of applied sciences are also very damaging to Finland's pioneering expertise. These cuts undermine the ability of universities to provide quality education, reduce the level of competence and, above all, reduce resources from vital fundamental research to develop future innovations. It is quite remarkable that the government calls for Finland to rise with innovations and at the same time cut off basic research and science. These cuts in the basic funding of universities and the competitive research funding of the Academy of Finland and Tekes threaten to kill the entire Finnish innovation ecosystem. The future of Finland based on export-driven growth, which is the result of the pioneering expertise, is at stake by the Government's actions. In view of the training and skills cuts that have been made to almost the pain limits during the last term of government, there is no longer any room for further cuts. These cuts endanger Finland’s future and growth conditions because Indeed, Finland will only be able to cope with this high level of expertise, pioneering expertise. The savings in early childhood education, in which the size of the day care group of over 3 years of age increases to 24 children per three adults, are also very unpleasant. Only small enough groups would be able to guarantee quality early childhood education, as adults in a larger group have less individual time for education, education and care. Large groups are also a risk to special children and also weaken their future school survival. To top it all off, day care for children in preschool is to be replaced as a more affordable club activity. The staffing and eligibility criteria are very loose, which can lead to large groups of children, the breaking-up of children's day into several groups and even uneducated staff. This will lead to a breakdown of educational equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u289	Madam President! What are we talking about when we talk about the economy here? We are talking about the distribution of taxpayers' money in such a way that the distribution is both supportive and fair of social structures. Let us talk about economic development so that, in the future, we may have more resources than we can share. However, I dare now to say that safety is not just about money; security cannot be bought. Security must be built with community, work and justice. In Finland, we have achieved a society with security. Safety may not be for everyone in all situations, but it can be said that most of us are safe. Security is the cornerstone of the functioning of Finnish society and Western values. If we do not continue to take care of our country, we will be heading towards a society of insecurity. We Finns are used to being criticized for lack of tolerance when we talk that culture that violates Western values is not a place in Finland. We have been criticised as hostile to foreigners when we put the welfare of the Finnish people first. In politics, you can judge and judge; it is Western freedom of expression. That too is part of the freedom that our ancestors fought for and that part fell as they fought. The world was a troubled place then, and it is still a troubled place, for mankind is so stupid that wars will not end in the world. However, Finland is a peaceful place and we want to keep it that way in the future. However, the uncontrollable influx of migrants that has now begun is a serious threat to security. It may be that I am wrong and that human flood from the Middle East and Africa does not pose a security problem. However, if I am right, Finland's peace will be threatened. But is not national security so important that it is not worth taking risks? The draft budget states in the section of the Ministry of the Interior's administration that, in the field of police action, emphasis is placed on the prevention and reduction of offences, disturbances of order and accidents. The objective is right and reasonable, but to achieve it requires immigration to be anticipated and controlled. The number of asylum seekers this year has broken all the record records in a way that Finland was not prepared for financially or in terms of security policy. In their countries of origin, asylum seekers hear that Finland is an ideal country in which full maintenance awaits, worked or not. Even if the asylum seeker has arrived in the country after work too, he is bitterly disappointed here. Finland’s high unemployment rate, non-existent economic growth and low career opportunities without knowledge of the official language are likely to lead to the exclusion of foreign citizens, especially non-language and unskilled people from working life. The fact that a young foreigner lives on social security leads to social exclusion and frustration from Finnish society. There is a threat that this frustration will erupt as criminal behavior. There is a threat that the most fanatical Muslim immigrants do not want to live in the country the way the country does, but demand a social order contrary to Western values. There is a threat that terrorist organisations will gain ground in our country. That is why our internal security requires that we focus on combating the abuse of the asylum system, just as the government is doing now. Our internal security requires resources to be allocated to the fight against terrorism, just as the government is doing now. Our internal security requires the migration movement to be translated into government and work-related. This starting point is a necessity that everyone should understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u290	Madam President! Just a few words about this budget in general. The budget will reduce the tax burden on labour, especially on low and middle incomes, by EUR 450 million. An adjustment is made to income tax corresponding to the change in the index of wage and salary earnings. The index freeze of the general government tax will lead to an increase of EUR 70, while at the same time EUR 10300 or less will be exempt — a total of 300,000. As a result of the government's tax changes, income differentials are narrowing. Guarantee pension increases by EUR 23 per month. The reduction of housing allowance for pensioners was reviewed, as Minister Mäntylä has just said. The taxation of those on good income is tightening, which is perfectly justified in this economic situation. The taxation of high incomes will be tightened by lowering the lower limit for the highest tax category from EUR 90000 to EUR 72300. The budget balance is reflected in the cost of immigration, which is included in next year's budget. However, the money will not be enough; the government will have to increase these appropriations. On the positive side, applications for asylum in Iraq and Somalia were frozen while examining the possibility of a bilateral return agreement with Iraq. Mr President! Through its strategic government programme, the government is moving forward with the necessary reforms in five priority areas. The Government’s strategic objectives are concrete in key projects. The Government’s objective is to raise Finland’s economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure the financing of social security for public services. In order to safeguard the financing of welfare services and income transfers, reforms will be carried out to improve the incentive for work and the attractiveness of employment. Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health proposes an appropriation of approximately EUR 13.1 billion for its administrative sector for 2016. It is about EUR 364 million more than this year. A very significant proportion of the appropriations will be allocated to key projects. The key projects of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will increase well-being and health. One important measure that reflects the government's value choices is to support family and family carers in the area of key projects, and that is what we have been talking about here today. The aim of the Government’s strategic term of government is to focus on the provision of services and informal care for older people at home. The big and legitimate question for carers has long been who remembers the carer after the election. Also from the other side: you should grow old right there in your own home, and what is the dream of most Finns is certainly ours. The value of carers is billions. If it wasn't for family carers, Finland would be in trouble. The Government's draft budget will develop the possibility for family carers to become self-helpers and improve their replacement arrangements. Madam President! The causes of the economic downturn in Finland have long continued to be weak exports, industrial restructuring and the decline in the general government deficit. The necessary fiscal adjustment measures decided by the government mean participation in social welfare in various forms, such as taxation. This is a necessary whole to support decisions to boost the growth and employment of Finland's economy. Learning and continuous updating of skills will be more important in the future. In Finland, new learning environments, new pedagogy and digital opportunities have so far not been fully exploited. According to the Government Programme, Finland will be rewarded for its hard work, work and activity. The growing economy is based on good management, strong entrepreneurship and ownership, and the utilisation of the resources of Finland as a whole. Currently, dozens of companies move from Finland to Estonia in a year, while a dozen companies move in the opposite direction. Jobs are not created by themselves; they are created by companies. Support for entrepreneurship cannot therefore be overemphasized in Finland. Mr President! Among other things, the Government Programme mentions a review of the level of punishment for serious sexual crimes against children, and I very much welcome the research project launched in the Ministry to clarify the general sense of justice and its relationship with conviction practices. This is a very topical issue for us this season. We are receiving a citizens' initiative which addresses sexual crimes against children and rightly asks whether the convictions are in place. Also a bill with 79 signatures at the moment, raising the minimum level of penalties for serious sexual offences against children
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u291	Mr President! The current government has a common and correct picture of the situation. It facilitates decision-making in a difficult situation. During the last parliamentary term, there was a different picture of the situation within the government and the main idea in the economy was to make half expenditure cuts and half tax increases. It was the task of companies to achieve economic and employment growth. This equation didn't play. In the case of employment enterprises, policy was seen as a threat: if cuts and tax increases do not help, there will be further cuts and tax increases. These actions were then carried out for more than 6 billion dollars. This stopped economic growth, which has been a negative sign for the last three years. This is largely due to the fact that industrial production has been falling for the same three years. Now we have admitted the facts. More Finnish work needs to be done. Mr President! I welcome the Government’s top-level projects in 2016, amounting to more than EUR 220 million in total, and the fact that EUR 100 million will be allocated to reducing infrastructure repair debt, over EUR 53 million for employment and competitiveness, EUR 45 million for skills and training, EUR 24 million for health and well-being, EUR 67 million for bioeconomy and clean solutions. In addition, EUR 33 million will be allocated to digitalisation and operating methods and the internationalisation of companies and the promotion of entrepreneurship as part of the Government’s key projects, the contribution of just under EUR 9 million will be allocated as an additional allocation to Team Finland’s operations. As part of the leading project, the Government will continue to present EUR 5 million in funding for the construction of high-quality research methods in the bioeconomy of the state financial and technical research institute. The Government also proposes top funding to support cleantech and bioeconomy solutions and the commercialisation of innovations by more than EUR 30 million. An amount of EUR 758 million is proposed for employment and enterprise policy, with an increase of more than EUR 3 million compared to last year. Mr President! An amount of EUR 387 million is proposed for energy policy, with an increase of EUR 50 million. Investment support for renewable energy and new energy technologies includes EUR 20 million in additional funding in line with the Government's key projects. The construction of LNG terminals will be secured and the distribution and supply of natural gas will be improved by an appropriation of EUR 33 million for investment aid for LNG terminals. Mr President! I also partly understand the decision to cut back on business subsidies, particularly in the case of aid which impedes competition. On the other hand, I do not quite understand why, for example, EUR 130 million is being cut for Tekes, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. So far Tekes’ R & D aid has been considered to be the most effective and least competitive form of aid. Companies that have received technical product development support have also grown and employed more than other companies. According to the information that came out yesterday, we are subject to increased taxes and reductions in business subsidies and are sown as harmful subsidies to the wind and the sea. In this respect, I suggest that the government take a closer look at these effects of business subsidies and reconsiders them from the point of view of support and effectiveness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u292	Madam President! One of the main objectives of the Government Programme is the bioeconomy and clean solutions. The goal is for Finland to be a pioneer in the bio- and circular economy. Our healthy forests are the key resource for this work. The use of wood will be diversified and increased by 15 million cubic metres. The size of forest farms is increased and forestry is directed towards an entrepreneurial model. Generational changes in forest farms will be promoted and the entrepreneurship reduction of forests will be increased. Significant data are collected on Finland's forests and now these forest resources data will be used more efficiently. At the same time, electronic services for the forest sector will be developed. The bioeconomy gained a strong position in the Government's strategic guidelines. The annual output of the bioeconomy has risen to nearly EUR 65 billion and has grown by more than EUR 10 billion in 10 years. In our country, the forest industry and forestry as a whole are and have played a central role in the bioeconomy. In the forest industry, investments of around EUR 1.7 billion, including new plants in Kuopio and Kemijärvi, are ongoing or starting in 2015-2017. The Government’s Bioeconomy Programme plays a key role in support and tax policies for the development of advanced biofuel manufacturing technology. Basic road maintenance, rail network and terminals will be invested. These are essential to the bioeconomy. Bioenergy must be made available from the forest and therefore the government takes the renovation of the lower road network seriously. The correction debt will now be offset by large-scale growth investments. The renovation of the road network can significantly reduce transport journeys and, therefore, costs. Madam President! The government assumes that the use of forest chips will increase and peat will increase. The competitiveness of forest chips and peat against coal must be improved. Last year, the use of forest chips in Finland turned to a marked decline. The use of peat did increase, but it had dived violently before. In March of this year, Parliament approved the law on the limits of support for forest chips. The 50% threshold will come into force with a delay and will require the approval of the EU Commission. The cap was the profit of the large chemical industry from private sawmills and logging companies producing wood energy. For example, the regulated law does not allow small-chp wood-fired power plants to invest in sawmills, because the size is too small and the maximum aid per plant is too small. Forest chipping power plants using sawmill-burning by-products will not receive variable electricity generation support when using this fuel. On the other hand, the import application receives variable electricity generation aid. The import application comes from Russia, and it seems strange how it is being blamed beyond the eastern border. The law passed in March has failed. I hope that the government will re-examine the feed-in tariff law for the small-chp wood combustion plant and correct the shortcomings in the current law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u293	Madam President! At the end of this budget referral debate, I wanted to come to the toilet because exactly a week ago on Tuesday at 6 p.m. was the section of the Ministry of Transport. We had a major and step-by-step debate on the government proposal which was announced that the heavy cuts in train purchasing traffic will be directed towards rail transport on 27 March — 30 trains will be withdrawn from the provinces of Finland. Looking back on these past years, there will be a sad old center. After all, the city centre has been telling us that it is opposed to concentration and has promised to keep all parts of the country alive. Now the Central Minister of Transport Berner and Prime Minister Sipilä are completely abolishing several sections of the railway lines in the provinces of Finland. Reminds me of Matti Vanhanen's second government program in 2008. In it he envisages a divided garden city in the metropolitan area, and now it is practically scrapped when he is the chairman of the parliamentary group. We must remember, as Mr Hakkarainen said there, that the government's top project is the bioeconomy. And when there are so many of these disbanded tracks, it also means that these lines will run out of maintenance altogether. Then how did this happen? First of all, Minister Berner said that the trains to be cancelled would be replaced by buses. He has subsequently changed his position and moved on to market-based rail transport and the opening of competition on these disbanded lines. It is good to recall here that good, comprehensive public transport is not profitable anywhere in Europe. It's supported everywhere. The biggest support is in Amsterdam, 60 per cent, and here in Finland, public transport in the capital region is supported by 40 per cent. The public transport sector in Tampere is supported by 27%. Taking into account the provisions on train traffic in the EU Directive on equipment, trains must comply with all the precise safety rules, including those on rolling stock emissions. Staff will also receive an EU-level training order. And then, when you consider that there is only one driver on that train, it is covered by a universally binding collective agreement between the Federation of Trainers, and at least the present government is not going to abolish the universally binding collective agreement system. So how on earth can these lines be managed by market-based public transport with all these marginal conditions in place? I would have liked the debate here to have seen this inadequacy and to have been prepared to correct the government's proposal. It is now in the hands of Parliament, and the Committee on Transport and Tourism is currently dealing with this issue and will eventually come to this Chamber for decision. But if there is no money, then the second option is that VR, which is very profitable and has been making dividends to its owners for many years now, with a profit of EUR 70 million in the last year, would be able to contribute some of the profits to these train services, and there would be no need for budget funding and things would be taken care of. VR’s Board of Directors presented its own options. The Board of Directors, composed of representatives of all parties, unanimously proposed that these cuts should not be made now, but that during the next year it should be examined how all public transport in Finland will be organised. Last day's news that this was raised by former Minister of Transport, Mr Sas, The open road report would be introduced — in other words, VR’s equipment would be confiscated to society — but it is worth careful consideration. There was news in today's Kauppalehti that VATT's researcher stated that it does not in principle create any new competition, but, when competition is desired, equipment should also be renewed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u294	Madam President! We Finns often want to describe ourselves as a model student in international comparisons. There are also grounds for this. Our economy has been strong in the past decades. It has been based on the work of previous generations. The present welfare society has also been built on this work. Unfortunately, the image of the economy and the model student in the 21st century have been broken. As the 21st century progresses, Finland has become a sick man of the European economy who can no longer finance its present welfare society. In this context, the current three-party government also bases its economic policy. The economic direction must be reversed in order to save the welfare society and its services. This is also the aim of the government's first budget. Its overriding objective is to increase work in Finland, as the future of the Finnish welfare society is at stake at the current employment rate. The most important tool in this budget to increase work is the EUR 450 million increase in the reduction in labour income. It is targeted at people with low and middle incomes. This will ensure that work in these income categories becomes more attractive. It is clear that this budget alone, or the government's own muscles in general, is not enough to reverse employment trends. The government therefore applied for medicines with social partners for a long time in order to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work. It is important that further ongoing negotiations between the social partners provide additional instruments for achieving a common objective. Finland needs to be given employment, and improving employment opportunities for businesses should be the main task of all policy makers. Mr President! However, the question of the future of Finland's future is not the price of Finnish work alone, but how well Finnish expertise sells in a tougher global competition. The responsibility for developing competence lies with Finnish entrepreneurs, but political decisions can pave the way for improving competence. To this end, the Government's key projects are also being pursued. EUR 1.6 billion will be earmarked for key projects during the electoral period. The greatest publicity about these investments has been given to additional resources for bioeconomy, knowledge and digitalisation. Properly targeted, these additional investments will facilitate the emergence of new growth enterprises in these sectors. As a sportsperson, I also enjoy the fact that this budget will make moving school a reality for the whole of Finland. Investing in student mobility and well-being is always worthwhile. It is also good that the government is committed to continuing to rationalise standards and to developing a culture of experimentation. A proposal already made to liberalise the opening hours of shops is a good example of a measure where costs to society are small but have a positive impact on employment and the economy. The 600 additional million proposed for basic bus maintenance will also pay for themselves as better employment and competitiveness. Madam President! As usual, the opposition has broken the budget very much. The opposition is, of course, entitled to do so, but, in this situation, it is not enough to bark. However, this is not an understatement to the difficult austerity decisions contained in the budget. The budget for a difficult time is visible in each of us's everyday lives, and the situation of pensioners receiving housing allowance is difficult, among other things. Even so, the situation in Finland is so serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u295	Madam President! I'll pick up on the last one when I didn't fit in for five minutes. — — — — In addition, the Government has promised in its programme to improve the profitability of agriculture and to strengthen the liquidity of farms. This is largely based on a critical approach to existing standards rather than creating new cost obligations in the industry. Unnecessary regulation and red tape are being dismantled and creative solutions are being sought. Good examples include environmental permit procedures, planning processes and building regulation. At the Ministry, red tape has been taken very seriously. I am very pleased that we now have a government that is beginning to dismantle the ever-increasing number of regulations over the decades. Complex and contradictory red tape, sometimes very open to interpretation, is a burden on both individuals and businesses. For example, for start-up entrepreneurs and why not create in a more experienced jungle is often frustrating, expensive and time-consuming, and I hope that all unnecessary rungs will be eliminated. In the agriculture and food sector, the administrative burden is also largely affected by EU regulations. Finland must play an active role in their content. There is still such a thing as the security of wood supply in the forest industry. There's been a lot of talk about it here and there's a lot of ways to do it, and they don't want to do it. But I have a motion: When a forest owner sells wood, the Estonian tax model is partly introduced. Once he has sold the tree, the money goes to a fund where it is still untaxed, but when the forest owner withdraws the money from it, he pays the tax. The old forest does not produce anything for anyone, it rots there, and at the moment, when 30 percent of the forest owners are urban people, it is a little blurry from the forest. But when a little carrot like that is put in it, then it increases the security of supply. In that fund, at least it brings interest — it helps nothing, it rots and loses its value. Here is one example that could now be considered in that ministry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u296	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 23 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u297	Mr President! Unfortunately, this budgetary plan shows the whole of the government's cold economic policy line, which we have been talking about this week and the previous week in connection with the budgetary procedure. It is a pity that this path of surgery has been chosen, and today we last heard bad news about pensioners. Similarly, it is a pity that, in this economic policy line, it seems to be under pressure from the people to see that cuts are the right solution in this situation. We believe that this is not the case, but that people's purchasing power should be safeguarded, and many economists are increasingly questioning the effectiveness of this cutting policy today. Similarly, we strongly criticise the fact that this chosen line of action on employment does not contain enough and is not effective enough. At the same time, I would like to point out the serious fact that, in this situation, there is no applause for the cuts in employment appropriations or the cancellation of the Youth Guarantee, on the contrary, they have also raised a great deal of public concern. President! All in all, we will return to this cold, right-wing, coalition economic line of government on many occasions later and in the future. This budgetary plan is one of the instruments in this regard. There are also outstanding elements here, such as the recordings on universal radio, where the principle of parliamentaryism has been violated by the government. These are all the things we will return to in the future. In this context, it would have been good, of course, for Mr Stubb, the Finance Minister, to have been in this Chamber, but, as has been said, these issues will be at the heart of our policy in the future and we will present a clear, fairer and more employment-friendly alternative to the government's economic policy line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u298	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u299	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u300	Madam President! After all, this package of income tax scales continues to repeat the government's conscious choice of values that the most well-off are very little involved in these joint efforts. This government's tax line repeats the coalition policy that explicitly lets the good guys off the hook. We will also make a clear new alternative to these tax guidelines. Of course, we are pleased that in the opposition we have been able to influence so much that some minor changes, let us say, have unfortunately become more apparent in the course of this autumn, but the need is greater. Citizens who cry out for justice, people ask: 'If we are being cut off, why do the good people not participate in these efforts?' As has been said, a new issue has emerged today, which also relates to these income tax scale laws. I do not think it can be right that once again we should be tearing the gap between the taxation of employees and pensioners. We have been working for years and trying to ensure that pensioners are taxed equally, on an equal basis and that the tax on pensioners is not higher, and now, if the government consciously is once again opening up such a drink, that is a very regrettable and bad thing. We have not yet received an answer when we ask whether an overall impact assessment has been carried out, but this is a serious matter and we will return to it. But with this speech, Mr President, these tax laws are important, they define the government's economic policy line, and we have an alternative to that. These must be given a proper period of time in this Chamber and, of course, ministers in charge. So I suggest that this is left on table 13.10. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u301	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u302	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u303	Mr President! I would also like to suggest that this is left on table 13.10. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u304	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u305	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u306	Mr President! I would like to put this on the table on 13.10. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u307	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u308	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u309	Madam President! I would suggest that this too be left on table 13.10. to the plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u310	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u311	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u312	Mr President! I'd like to put it on the table at 13.10. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u313	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u314	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u315	Mr President! I would suggest that this too remains on table 13.10. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u316	Representative Pia Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table on 13.10. to the plenary session. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u317	Mr President! The opposition will continue its logical approach and move the solution of the problems forward, as has happened in the last period. The government has brought its own proposal to the debate throughout the week... [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : RepresentativeJalonen, this cannot be discussed other than on the table. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u320	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Education and Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u321	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u322	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u323	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u324	Mr President! With reference to what has already been said, I suggest that the matter remains on the table. — — — — I'm canceling my show.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u325	Mr President! The government's education policy is very cold from many points of view, and it is also very cold from the students' point of view with regard to these student-support cuts. When we look at what is happening at the same time in the neighbouring country of Sweden, we are investing much more in education, research, education, education and education than in Finland — there is a billion-dollar investment in education as a whole. Similarly, here the government cuts the education sector very significantly, and that is what is now happening with student aid. This will inevitably also have an impact on the whole of study aid, on the income of students, on the way in which students are able to complete their studies, and I am very concerned about this whole and from this point of view — the future of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u326	Mr President! The proposal before us is one part of the big picture in which the opportunities for education, education and important investments in the future are diminishing, and it is a pity that the government is cutting education with such a big hand. So none of the decisions that the opposition criticised in the previous period will be withdrawn, and we are now making savings of EUR 3 billion on this. This proposal now before us also concerns students, it undermines their chances, and one might say that this law under discussion is in a certain way a cherry on top of this cake, where the conditions for our future are being undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u327	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u328	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u329	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u330	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u331	Mr President! The freezing of the Finnish Broadcasting Index, which is the subject of this government proposal, is not very high in terms of economic impact, between 3 and 4 million, perhaps, depending on how the cost development develops, will have an impact on the budget of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, which is slightly above 500 million per year. This is not about big money, but it is about the big principle that the government is now implementing here, in which the government, by its way of action, deviates from the agreement on the basis of which the YLE started to develop and its financing and operating model, in fact, during the parliamentary term that began two parliamentary years ago in 2007. We are all well aware of how difficult it has been to organise the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. There is a very long development in the background at the time when the financing of the YLE was based on a television licence, the payment of which was a statutory obligation for the owner of the TV receiver. However, it was found that the willingness to pay for the television licence was falling apart. Some people paid the TV fee and some did not, and this led to a spiral that not only was the funding of the Broadcasting Company at risk, the ability of the Broadcasting Company through it, but also the unfair and unfair situation that those who failed to pay the fee got at the cost of EUR 0, and then those who paid faithfully, as the law obliges, the charge for the television licence went up all the time. There were many attempts to resolve this. During the parliamentary term that began in 2007, Minister Suvi Lindén prepared an issue which seemed to be one of the solutions to replace the television licence fee for the financing of YLE, but that solution never resulted in the result, and the then government abandoned the system and the television fee continued. However, at the end of that parliamentary term in 2010, an agreement was reached between the chairmen of the parliamentary groups that the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company would be renewed on a new basis, and in the same agreement between the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, i.e. in a parliamentary consensus spirit, the level of funding for the Finnish Broadcasting Company should be EUR 500 million. So in the next parliamentary term, the 2011 parliamentary term, led by Minister Krista Kiuru, by the chairmen of the new parliamentary groups and by their mutual agreement, this agreement was first reached to go as agreed during the previous parliamentary term. Finally, this legislation was brought about, with the move to this model of public service tax, so that a separate tax will be collected on the financing of YLE, which will then be charged to the state budget and then transferred to the Radio and Television Fund, from which EUR 500 million will be paid annually to ensure its operation. All the time in the conclusion of this agreement and in the preparation of legislation, spirit and record-keeping were in line with the development of this financial system, and so was the development and development of legislation on universal radio, which was adopted unanimously by all the parliamentary groups. One time during the transition to 2014, when this broadcasting tax entered into force for the first time in 2013, the index was increased by means of an index, but already for the funding planned for 2015 the index was frozen. This was done by mutual agreement between the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and the parliamentary groups, so that the whole Parliament negotiated a common solution, that all right, the economic situation is difficult, that many indices are cut off, that the citizens have to compromise on many things, that companies have to compromise on many things, that there are redundancies, that unemployment is increasing and so on. It was concluded that the broadcasting index will be frozen for 2015. In the context of its decision, when it had been agreed jointly that this was a unique, one-off solution, there would be no follow-up. Now, this government, by its own actions, has made a proposal without negotiation, without forming the common will of the parliamentary groups, has decided that the index will be frozen, so it has been brought here and, of course, by a simple majority of the parliament, the government will get its way. This is the fundamental change that has taken place, and I think this is something to be worried about. The Government now takes over the Finnish Broadcasting Company without asking for the will of the whole Parliament, without seeking consensus among the parliamentary groups. And at the same time, in this longer plan for central government finances, which we also discussed today, the budgetary plan for 2016-2019, it is reported that the index, according to the Government's proposal, will be frozen for the entire parliamentary term and that the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, which is now outside the spending limits, will be transferred into the spending limits. We had quite a tight discussion on this in the Management Board and heard various assessments of whether this was justified at all, expert assessments, which were critical of this. We are now taking a big line in the direction that, in such a democratic place of free civilization, freedom of expression, as the Finnish society is, it is right to credit us that we are now moving the public service media company, the Finnish Broadcasting Company, more into the government's radio. There's a direction here. I am not saying that it is a government radio at once, but in order to guarantee the independence of the YLE from government and political cycles, it would be extremely important, however, to insist that Parliament, on a joint decision, on a consensus basis, makes financial and other decisions on YLE — not that, in line with the political preferences or policies of the respective government, YLE either has to fear its funding or then hope that there will now be a government with a little extra money. It is important that the central media, YLE, is independent of the government. That is what we must stand up for together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u332	Mr President! Representative Kantola here well went through the history associated with the YLE. Although this is only the next year, it is good to note and point out in this debate that the government has taken important decisions, such as those of mountain size, with regard to the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, even during the short period mentioned earlier. In the past, there was a budgetary plan under discussion. It is clear from there that the government has decided that YLE will be transferred to the state budget, to the state budget frameworks, without asking the opposition anything at all, without talking to the parliamentary groups about it in a word, by simply bringing in a proposal to transfer YLE within the spending limits — and, furthermore, the whole spending limits period has been cut to zero. This is contrary to the agreement — this is contrary to the agreement — which has been concluded jointly by the parliamentary groups on 16 December 2011. It states that, where there is a need for material changes or other changes in the status of the Broadcasting Broadcasting Company, i.e. material changes in funding, it must be dealt with in a parliamentary manner. On this basis, then Minister Kiuru prepared the Broadcasting Act. And now suddenly a government decision is coming out that the YLE has been transferred to the framework in the budgetary plan,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u333	Mr President! Every decision has its consequences, and so does this government's intention to transfer this Yle-financing into budget funding. I looked a little at what has happened elsewhere when this has been done, what has happened in countries where broadcasters have been subjected in a way to government thumbs. The ugliest examples are from countries such as Hungary, where the broadcaster is entirely government radio and TV and acts as a mediator of its propaganda. But also in the Netherlands, where, in 2000, licence fees were waived and we moved to a system of our kind, the first guarantee was given that public service funding would not be reduced, but what did the next government do there? He did a major cutting programme, which was also extended to this national broadcaster’s NPO budget, and now new cuts have been decided there. Iceland has had exactly the same kind of development. It was initially stated that this was only a technical transfer, that this would not have any impact on the financing, but it did not. There, too, earmarking was abandoned and no inflation increases were made, and today Iceland’s radio TV RÚV receives only about 86 % of the money originally intended. There are many of these examples. Such a door has now been opened by the Finnish Government, and it would be interesting to hear — the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Jalone, on what estimates are based the promise that this would not happen in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u334	Madam President! However, it has become very clear in this debate that there are really big problems going on in relation to the future of YLE, whether it is the independent position of YLE or, in general, the way in which the government has chosen here all in all. Indeed, in time, as has been said, it has been said together how important it is that all the important guidelines for the YLE are drawn up in parliamentary terms. Broadcasting is not simply a government handheld, it is a public radio, it is a democratic radio, it is a parliamentary radio, and this principle has been very important for a long time. I could not possibly understand why we could give up this principle overall. When the Broadcasting Act has been reformed along the way and its principles have been restored, this independence has also been very important. We need a high-quality, independent public radio. In this way, these reforms, which the government is doing unilaterally, without consulting the opposition, and also in substance, for example, this particular budget transfer, are likely to seriously jeopardise this position. This is a serious situation. I hope that we can return to this. I simply cannot understand why, in such a short period of time, the government has made decisions the size of a mountain, as Mr Lindtman said about me, rather illustratively; he said that decisions the size of a mountain have been made here. That's right. Any of us who have followed this parliamentary debate and the common history of the YLE will certainly be able to sign this. I hope that this will now be some kind of step that the government will withdraw from and come to a new line in this respect, that traditional line of cooperation, and in any case, it will also consider decisions of this kind in substance. We just don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u335	Madam President! The representative, Mr Kantola, explained the history of the discussion and planning of the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company in the Parliament from 2007 to 2011. In this situation, I see that a change of less than 1% in the financing of Yle does not cost Yle's independence and Yle will remain the radio of Parliament. There's been a lot of talk about Yle becoming a government radio. Personally, I do not see this, but when I listen to the programmes and I know the journalists and people who work there, there is no fear that this small transfer of funding — as Mr Kantola said — will become a government radio. It'll stay on Parliament's radio.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u336	Mr President! It's a real big deal now that we have to come to the toilet and talk about it. The representative, Mr Kantola, went through a great deal of history here, and the common goal in 2010, when the first declaration was made and when it was agreed between the parliamentary groups that Yle's funding would be reformed, was that Yle's role should be safeguarded so that it is independent of government decisions, and this position includes funding and its level. In 2010, it was first stated that the aim of the preparation was to create a financial and management model that long-term safeguards the development and independence of Yle’s public service to the current extent. Then in December 2011, the parliamentary groups agreed, concluding an agreement that, first of all, 'in order to ensure the independence of Yleisradio Oy, it is justified that the public service tax is not included in the framework of central government finances'. This is therefore stated separately. It is then stated that in 2013 the public service funding level of YLE will be 500 million, including taxes, and the level will be reviewed annually. It is precisely in the context of the situation that, if this is to be re-assessed — even for one year, even for one year, let alone the spending limits period, let alone how the Yle-Tax is changed, let alone whether or not it is in the framework — it is stated here that, if the need for material changes is identified in the further preparation of the agreed solution, parliamentary support will also be relied on in the preparation of the agreed solution. And the government proposal prepared under the leadership of the then Minister, Mr Kiuru, states very clearly on page 33 that this bill is based on an agreement reached by parliamentary groups on the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. Now it is good to remember that in 2014, the YLE parliamentary groups decided that the YLE's financial index would be frozen for this year, but if we now see what the difference between the two issues is, first of all, this was the subject of a joint agreement between the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in March and, on that basis, the Government submitted a draft law on the temporary freezing of the YLE index. Now, if we go through this year's process of how this issue was raised, the opposition parties have been very dissatisfied with the way this has been dealt with. In August, we received a message from the chairman of the largest group asking for the leadership of the groups to feel that the Finnish Broadcasting Company had been frozen, and it was explicitly stated that the Minister would take a position on this matter only after the consciences of the parliamentary groups had arrived. Then suddenly we read the message that the government parties have decided that the Finnish Broadcasting Index will be frozen — that is, without any negotiation, without any meeting. After that, when we met to negotiate and disapprove of this practice, we learned that this was a decision for the entire spending limits period, and then we learned that the government has decided on the routes, through the kitchen, to transfer the YLE into the framework of the state finances. In other words, there has been a huge change here, in which, in practice, the government's activities have violated the agreement that the parliamentary groups have concluded together. And an absolutely essential part of this independence in the agreement that we have previously concluded is precisely that not every government will be able to shape the funding or the level of funding to its liking and in that way, as if it were possible to maintain the threat, or in one way or another, only from the government to intervene in the role of the Broadcasting Company. This is the main reason, i.e. the way in which the financing of YLE is decided. It has a significant impact on whether the radio is an independent radio, which is precisely the radio of the whole Parliament, and here there has been a flagrant violation of the procedures that have been decided. Now the problem is that the Minister has announced that a parliamentary working party will now be set up, starting from the beginning of next year to deal with the role of Broadcasting. The situation is that, this autumn, Parliament will have to adopt a position on the YLE index for next year's budgetary plan, on the index for the entire four-year period, and without parliamentary scrutiny and preparation, Parliament will have to take a position on whether the financing of YLE is part of the central government finances framework or not — not to mention the changes that are being made to the Yle-Tax. Regardless of how you feel about all these things, the problem now is that this autumn Parliament will now have to take a position on these matters before the whole working group can even begin its work. I have suggested to the parliamentary groups in the government parties that this situation should be resolved. It would have made sense for the government to withdraw this bill now at hand, to change the budgetary plan in that respect, to leave the matter open, and then we could have dealt with the role of the Broadcasting Service together in this Parliament, together with the need for change here, and linked it to this parliamentary work. If anyone claims that now the changes that the government has unilaterally made have nothing to do with the position of the Broadcaster or that even this one decision does not affect the position of the Broadcaster, then he will either talk nonsense or cheat himself. This is what it's all about. This is a serious, very serious matter. The way in which the financing of Yle, its level, its structure are determined has an impact on whether Yle is independent or not. Now the government is on a path that sooner or later will certainly meet the bear. I ask the representatives of the government parties present: is the agreement reached by parliamentary groups on 16 December 2011 still in force or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u337	Mr President! We have to go back a little bit in time and think about what was actually agreed in Parliament on the financing of YLE in 2011. It was the last day of December and the last moments, 16 December 2011, with the decision of all parliamentary groups: "In order to ensure the independence of the public radio, it is justified that the public service tax is not included in the framework of central government finances. The tax is technically charged to the state budget, from which the funds are allocated to the State Television and Radio Fund. In 2013, the public service funding level of YLE is EUR 500 million with taxes. The level will be revised annually starting from 2014 in line with the annual increase in the cost level according to the index." The same statement also states: 'If the need for material changes is identified in the further preparation of the solution agreed today, the preparation of these changes will also be based on parliamentary support'. So let's lean on parliamentary support. Mr President! Here are some passages of the statement about where the Yle solution actually got the wind. For the last three decades, we have been working together to find a new solution for Yle-Tax. The question was whether it was a Yle-payment or whether it was a Yle-tax, and then finally came to this current model. As early as the 40th century, Finland’s communication policy has been very central to the fact that the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company must be based on an independent source, as it were, in independent hands. Now we are in a situation where this truth, which began in the 40s, has been clearly questioned. The work that was done together with all the parliamentary groups in the last period is becoming a rather lame duck if, in practice, these government plans as such are going to pass. In other words, we are in a situation where, in practice, this unanimously prepared basis is being violated. In case it becomes unclear how this debate continued: the Yle legislation was prepared on the basis of this statement, and when this Yle's final settlement was prepared on the basis of this statement, the Government's proposal of 29/2012 stated specifically on page 33: "According to Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's Government Programme, the Yle funding model and collection method will be reformed in line with the joint statement adopted by the parliamentary groups in 2010. And this same statement has also been taken to this same page 33 of the Government’s proposal, which states: “According to the 2010 declaration referred to in the Government Programme, the level of funding must be sufficient.” It was also stated: "The proposals of this proposal are based on the above statement and the Government's decision in principle. A proposal for the levying of a new public service financing tax has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance." Mr President! What am I trying to say with all this? Now we are in a situation where all this, which has just been described, has been brought to nothing. The first decision in principle was taken after the decision was taken to make this Yle-tax solution, in which these same positions which I read to you are also on the table. And then the Yle law and the related part of the funding that was prepared by the Ministry of Finance were adopted and all the above-mentioned entries are repeated in these presentations. In other words, only by relying on parliamentary support can changes be made to the operation of the YLE, to the level of funding and also to the solution of this financing mechanism for YLE. And that has also been stated in the drafts of this bill and in the adopted position of Parliament. Now, Mr President-in-Office, we have come to a situation in which the government has acted unilaterally, first of all by saying in its government programme that Yle is no longer part of these items outside the framework. I am, of course, surprised because although the National Audit Office has required that all items, particularly these cyclical items, should be included in the spending limits, this same principle has not, however, been followed in all other matters of political interest, as in the case of Makera, for example. But in the case of the YLE, the government unilaterally decided that this item falls within the framework, which is a clear political statement and contrary to these policies. Secondly, I was surprised that the government decided, although after listening to the word of warning... I myself warned the public that if the Yle index were unilaterally changed, there would be a situation in which, in practice, we would be left with a clear level of funding plus, and this cumulative accumulation would be, at least according to this bill, EUR 60 million more. That is why the government decided that this 60 million could be used for some other purpose. That is how they, by their own actions in the budget debate, came to the conclusion that this minimum amount of payment would be increased from EUR 51 to EUR 70. That is also what we Social Democrats supported when this bill was being prepared, but it must be said, in the name of the truth, that there was no support from two groups in this Chamber. And this now leads to the fact that, when this law goes through here, in practice — as the impact is stated on this page, which has a 'impact on public finances' — the proposed change means that around EUR 20 million less is the Yle-tax revenue than was once laid down together. Of which this 20 million will be covered, this is not said in this motion. And in conclusion, the Universal Service Index was once before and it was agreed that, if index freezes are made, they will be done jointly by deciding on the matter, and in this case this has not happened, because the government has decided that this index freeze when it is done can only be done with the support of the government parties. And that was never decided. There is also a statement on that, an index freeze for 2015. The Government's explanatory statement reads: "The proposal is based on the 21st of the parliamentary group presidents. the agreement of 3 March 2014 to prepare the necessary legislative amendment to freeze the YLE index due to the economic situation. The exceptional decision adopted unanimously concerns the year 2015" — the exceptional decision adopted unanimously. In other words, I must say that I am very disappointed that in Finland the communication policy is not long-term, and this puts the entire funding of YLE at risk for the coming years and will be in a situation where we got the TV licence inspectors off the doors of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u338	Madam President! First of all, with regard to this dramatic transfer of spending limits — note. dramatic, then, in quotes. The transfer of funds is included in Article 31.40.60 of the State budget. The State Television and Radio Fund is an off-budget accounting fund managed by FICORA. The funds of the fund will be paid to Yleisradio Oy in accordance with the operating plan and the financing needs of the company established by the Government. I do not think that there is any dramatic problem of the size of the mountain described by Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u343	Madam President! Without any more drama, when these well-founded statements from the opposition have come to light, I am sure that during the last period there was a responsible opposition in good parliamentary cooperation and good decisions, but, as Mrs Wallinheim said there, the situation has changed somewhat at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u344	Mr President! Indeed, a very important question is how we will secure pluralistic communication in Finland in the future and by what principle the YLE, which is essential to this pluralistic communication, will be managed. After all, we have decades of tradition, not only through legislation but also as a culture of habit, that the government does not take decisions on the YLE, but that YLE is directed by Parliament, and it is important in all Western societies on the basis of the independence of the big media power in the national radio company. The Government does not seek to build guidance for news or other broadcasting activities, but accepts the idea that there is independent communication, and this is also represented by the National Broadcasting Company. This principle has been consistently in force, not only during the last parliamentary term, but also during the preceding parliamentary term, and has been consistently committed by all parliamentary groups and parliamentary parties. A very big and significant change is taking place now, and I hope that, regardless of the party position, the representatives will reflect on the substance of this change and its desirability. This is not a matter of saving money; it is a question of whether the YLE can count on its independence and the resources necessary for its operation. When reference has been made to earlier statements, it should be said that they have been very consistent since the joint opinion of the parliamentary groups in 2010 and, of course, before, but when the Broadcasting Act did not get any cheers here, it was, however, ready to go through then, but then the rapporteur Minister Lindén concluded that he would withdraw the proposal. In this situation, the groups jointly assumed responsibility and felt that the public radio could not be left behind in terms of funding or operating principles, but that it was important for the groups to have a common position which would then guide the preparation of the Broadcasting Act. This common position arose on the basis of discussions, and then on this basis Minister Kiuru built the renewal of this law, which also led to the renewal of the financing of YLE. The very central question in funding was that when we move from the licence fee to the new financial system, we can be confident that independence has been secured and not that the government will regulate this funding and thereby try to create its own thumb here on the Public Radio artery. From this point of view, it is essential that progress does not take place as we have seen now, that government parties take decisions, which is the funding that YLE needs, and then decisions are taken to move the spending on YLE into the spending limits, unlike the previous political agreement. I consider this proposal to freeze the index to be very bad. Obviously — I do not know, we have not even been informed — it is intended that these cuts will take place several years in a row. Here we sit in Parliament and we do not even know what the government has decided on this, but such information is on the move that the intention is to cut the operating conditions for YLE every single year during the entire parliamentary term. And then, when these are put into the framework, that actually means that, contrary to a very broad previous consensus, the YLE is being made part of the budget. And then the needs of the YLE will be played in relation to other needs in the budget, so that if you put something in it, then you have to take away from the framework somewhere else. This is a very big line that is being made here. From this point of view, it is sad that Parliament is discussing the fundamental principles of our information at this late hour of the evening without even knowing what the government is going to do and without the chairmen of the parliamentary groups of the government parties who have been involved in these discussions. There are countries that make decisions in this way, and I am not exaggerating, but we have former Communist countries in the countries of Eastern Central Europe, which have moved into such a system where the government seeks to direct the national broadcaster and thus influence its affairs. And then, in the late hours of the evening, legislative changes will be made as undetected as possible and without proper debate. This trend is not genuinely good and, in order to prevent it, it does require that, regardless of party status, MPs are prepared to defend sustainable principles relating to YLE that have been in force for decades, which have been the result of practical experience and which have acted in every economic cycle in a rational way, safeguarding the credibility of YLE's operations. This is not made any easier by the fact that, in this situation, we have seen a wonderful performance, too, that the government and its Prime Minister want a direct broadcast time from the YLE and, at the same time, the funding of YLE is being discussed. Such a question should never have been put before the management of the YLE, that there are simultaneously cuts in YLE and whether YLE is giving direct broadcasting time to the Prime Minister on a matter which is strongly disputed and which has very different views both within Parliament and in the labour market. This trend is bad, and it can be found in some of the countries I have mentioned, such as Hungary, in this late-night discussion in the Chambers, so that the ministers are absent and the matter is taken quickly without a proper spotlight and proper scrutiny. It is a bad culture, it should not be done, not on any government basis. It may be that not all of this is deliberate, and it may be that there is also coincidence in the group. But quite a few things are now going into a bad corner and, of course, they cause concern about the way in which this central democratic issue, the pluralist communication and the independence of the national broadcaster, is safeguarded. I am concerned about this trend. I am very disappointed that in such a short period of time, everything that has been learned and spoken over the years and decades will be forgotten. I think it is in the interests of the whole of Parliament that what has been agreed in the past is maintained, and if there is any other opinion, then we will discuss it in such a way that everyone is there, and not in such a way that some people in the government go into their own corner and then comes and tells us that this is the case, and that Parliament will be put in front of the facts that have happened. This is a big place for learning and learning in all cases. In addition, I think it is very important that Parliament does not put itself in the position of a rubber stamp and does not accept these decisions that have been taken today without a critical, factual and diverse approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u345	Mr President! In fact, it is not only a matter of principle, but also a matter of substance so big that this cannot be allowed to happen here without just a few speeches being discussed. Firstly, as far as Mr Pakkanen's comment is concerned, that the debate that has now arisen is somehow due to the kind of opposition we have, I think that this comment is a little now showing that we do not know how huge things are now being decided. So if this had been an attempt to stick to the agreement that has been concluded together, if there were a genuine desire and desire to discuss the level of funding for the YLE, for example, in comparison to what is happening in other parts of society, then it could have been assumed that the government, or the corresponding minister or the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, would now invite the parliamentary groups to come together to discuss the issues and arguments that have emerged in this debate, for example, among the representatives of the government parties. No one has denied that Yle is part of public finances. What is really at stake is that if changes are to be made to this funding, not to mention whether it makes sense, if the government does not even invite — that is to say, we have recognised that the YLE is independent and that it must be under the Parliament itself — negotiations on the size, not on next year's index, not on the Yle-Tax, not on what is the spending limits of the parliamentary term, not on moving within the spending limits, is this a question of conscious intention to take YLE out from under the Parliament? In other words, would you have accepted this agreement last season if the government had made a proposal without telling you and told you to sign it? I do not believe — and I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber believes it. This is a huge deal. And now, if this Parliament, on the basis of this process and these proposals, takes this step, then we will be on a really dangerous path, as we heard in the previous speech. We have seen from the world what happens when the government takes over the local broadcaster. And perhaps even serious is the fact that when the government was still being formed, when it really is a question of whether it is a question of not knowing whether there has been any information, there has not been an agreement at hand which should have been known in the government for the time of the government negotiations or the budget debate, it is precisely for this reason, at the time of the government negotiations, that we then come to the opposition parties and the chairmen of their parliamentary groups, we approached the Government Confessor Juha Sipilä. In May 2015, we personally took a statement to the then Government Confessor Sipilä, in which we hoped for parliamentary scrutiny on various issues. The position stated that we still consider it important that issues relating to the status, tasks and funding of the public radio should be dealt with parliamentaryly in accordance with the established practice and not agreed upon in the course of government negotiations. All those present remained in the understanding that this was the commitment of the then governmental confessor. And now, if we are talking about this framework to which Mrs Wallinheimo referred and said that this is just a technical matter of this kind, that there is no political choice, then if the government decided to transfer it specifically to the framework of the Broadcasting Broadcasting System, which is the basis of this parliamentary agreement, the agreement of the parliamentary groups,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u348	Mr President! I will also draw attention to the way in which preparations have been made on the subject of general taxation and on the subject of general legislation. Yes, Parliament most often calls for good lawmaking, and in this case it seems that the government itself did not know what was right to decide. The big question at all is whether it is possible to make changes in the financing of Yle or in the legislation of Yle on its own. On that basis, it is clear from the current law that all the changes that are made on that basis are based on parliamentary support. In this case, parliamentary support narrowed to a very small group and only to the basis of the government parties, which means that no such presentations have been made in Parliament regarding the YLE. In the 40s there has been a principle in which the independence of Finnish YLE has been ensured by ensuring that all decisions on YLE are taken together with the help of the entire Parliament. This also means that we are now in a special situation where no one yet knew whether or not Yle was moving the framework. It is absolutely safe to say that this is a technical change. If the Government Programme already decides what is left out of the spending limits, but there are politically protected funds such as Ara and Makera, then in this regard the Finnish Broadcasting Company, which has the sole support of this Parliament as a fund outside the spending limits, has decided to move within the spending limits. In this regard, I am surprised because, as I said, the decisions on the universal radio were taken in the 2011 statement on the Government's resolution on it, which was based on a verbatim basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u349	Mr President! There is a great deal to be said about how the government parties look at this issue and, in my opinion, a great deal about what the representatives of the government parties think about it, and in particular about what the parliamentarians in Parliament think about it. I very much and wholeheartedly hope that this will not be included in the long list of disagreements on budgetary policy, social security savings or public spending or taxation, because this is a different category. And I would like the representatives of the government parties to genuinely get involved in this matter and go through this old history and wonder whether we want to make a very big change in principle in the way in which the YLE issues are decided in Finland. This is not a question of money, this is a question of principle and independent information, and it is difficult to deal with or correct this from the opposition. This requires that there should be a representative of the government party who has knowledge and understanding of culture beyond the economic cycle. So I hope that this debate will not remain here, but that we can genuinely have a proper reflection in this House on whether this is the direction we want to take with regard to the Broadcasting Company.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u350	Madam President! As we have seen from this debate, we are on a very big issue with a very small group. We are dealing with the election of the government past the agreed time of the evening without the answers of the government parties, to which we are actually going in the future. Furthermore, we have been able to see that during the trip, most recently during the weekend, various information and ideas have been presented about the future of YLE in general. I feel that the least we can do here is actually take an extra time, and I therefore suggest that we leave it on the table 13.10. At the hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u351	Representative Katja Taimela has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 October 2015. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u352	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u353	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u354	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u355	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u356	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u357	Madam President! This proposal proposes to transfer the organisation of prison health care from the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I am pleased to welcome this government proposal. Prisoner health care is currently organised separately from other public health care, and when public health care is at the hands of municipalities, it is the responsibility of the Criminal Sanctions Agency for prisoners. Now the aim of this amendment is to strengthen, in accordance with the principle of normality referred to in the Prison Act, the status of prison health care as part of the rest of the health care system, and I believe that this is a clear step in the right direction. Prisoners are in poor health. You can say that there are a lot of substance abuse problems, mental disorders, liver infections, and the average life span of a prisoner is 47 years. I do believe that this reform will bring good and cost-effective Nordic healthcare to our prisoners in Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u358	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u359	Madam President! In this proposal, the guarantee pension will be increased by EUR 23, and in this way it will seem unbelievably good. But then, when you scratch a little deeper than this surface, you will notice that the level increase in the guaranteed pension does not improve the position of low-income pensioners. The guarantee pension is currently EUR 746.57 per month this year, and Kela estimates that the index cut calculated on the basis of it is equivalent to a reduction of EUR 31 per month in 2019. In other words, this level increase envisaged for the guarantee pension is not enough to improve or even maintain the income level of low-income pensioners. This increase in the guarantee pension is also eaten up by this change in the housing allowance, and I would like to ask in this connection: where is the government's social conscience in this matter? I hope that these plans will withdraw this housing allowance for pensioners and transfer it to this general housing allowance. This increase in the guarantee pension is therefore good but not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u360	Mr President! In my opinion, this speech by Mr Ojala-Niemela quite well illustrated the fact that the other hand gives the impression that we are now making a very good improvement on pensioners. A good thing is that the guarantee pension is being increased, but the unfortunate other side of the coin is that at the same time we are eating away and, in fact, the situation of pensioners is deteriorating. Today, for example, we have come to the point that this issue is becoming a matter between the Socialists, the Left Alliance and the Greens. I think it is very important that this issue should be raised in a serious way, and I would like to say this in the Minutes. Earlier today it became clear that there will also be problems with taxation for pensioners, and that is why I would really like to see this kind of patience with government ministers and representatives of government parties at this stage in the Chamber to discuss the issue of pensioners. In this context, it would be good to say that, in future, the Finns and the people in the centre are going to tell them that we raised the guarantee pension, including this perverse side, that it will not actually help the status of these pensioners, and that is something that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u361	Mr President! Indeed, as has been revealed in this speech by Mr Ojala-Niemelä and Mr Viitane, this is, in fact, a repeat of the same thing that has been repeated here in education and in many other matters, that one hand is taken with a clump and the other hand is given a little back and then it is said that hey, we are developing. This has also been the subject of this debate throughout the autumn. The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health even used the word'retirement scheme' in the press when it is said that we are now raising the guarantee pension, and then, quietly, the index is cut so that in reality we are well below the mark. Now it turns out today that pensioners are being punished here too in taxation. When you know these other decisions of the government, the cuts in housing allowance, the changes to these medical benefits, this is a very hard ride for the people who have built this country. The question arises as to the values at which these decisions are taken. That is why it is very important that every single representative of the government party has to ask himself whether these are the decisions that were promised before the elections to the population of our country which has built this country and which, on the other hand, is already struggling to make a living, especially in the major cities today. So taxation is now starting to tighten the taxation of pensioners in relation to wage earners. This housing allowance is taken away from the poorest, the weakest. It also turned out that this limit of 60
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u362	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u363	Madam President! The Government is ready to change the terms of the rotation leave so that they will change from the beginning of next year. The previous change in the rotation allowance was made a year ago in the autumn, when, among other things, the work history required by the rotation leave was raised from 10 to 16 years. Now the government is raising the historical requirement for 20 years. The maximum duration of the leave will be reduced and the higher rotation allowance for long-term workers would be abolished so that the rate of the rotation allowance would be 70% of the unemployment allowance for all rotational workers. What do I feel is the purpose of the rotational leave system itself? The aim is, on the one hand, to promote the employment of the worker and, on the other hand, to offer the unemployed person employment opportunities. Jobrotation is not a break for a lazy worker, as some people have heard in this house. Some use it for a break, but quite a few people go to study more of their own fields during their leisure time, the benefit of which goes back to the work unit with an employee coming from work leave, and some work on rotation leave as family carers, among others. In my opinion, the government is prepared to weaken the rotation leave. Unemployment is rising, but the voluntary division of work is becoming more difficult. I think there's no logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u364	Mr President! I must say that it was an excellent speech which we have just heard from Mr Taimela. There have already been messages from places of work that it is really difficult to use this shift leave after these blackmails, not to mention the fact that we know that this has been used by a lot of low-paid, female-dominated sectors and, consequently, many workers have wanted to be able to go there for the rest of their careers. And when it is known that in the middle and low-paid sectors these compensations are already very small, that you really get to plan your economy if you are going to stay on duty, then you really have to think about how you get along during it. If our objective in this public finances is to tackle this sustainability gap when we know that the sustainability gap is affected by the amount of work that has been done and then by the productivity that has been done, and through this we are justified longer working careers, then if this means actually, as we have seen, will have an impact in certain areas on the fact that those last years of working life are now being maintained, especially as this pension reform is closed, then the question arises that, when we are clearly seeking savings here, will this then, on the one hand, hit the ears with the aim of extending the working life, improving productivity and, on the other hand, improving well-being at work. Very good points were raised by Mr Taimela and it would be good if those things were to come up and the government would reconsider them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u365	Mr President! As the only representative of the government parties who have followed this debate today at this point in the evening, I would of course like to thank the Social Democrats for their hard work, but when you have listened to what you have said today, it inevitably comes to mind that where is and what is the Social Democrats' alternative. Do you have that option at all for the government party line, and when will it come? You will not be eligible for a small index freeze on Yle-Tax, you will not be eligible for an increase of EUR 23 in the guarantee pension — which is also, I am told, wrong — and you will not be eligible for a small change in the rotation leave. You should now take into account that Finland is in a very serious economic crisis. I am asking you in all honesty: where is your alternative, and when will it come here for parliamentary debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u366	Mr President! I would like to say to the previous representative what I said to Mr Töll a short time ago, and which is in fact quite a number of times — I do not think even the fingers of two hands will suffice. We now have a government proposal which we have had a little more than a week to marvel at and to deal with here. And according to the established rules of the parliament, that is to say, the rules of the game that the Finns themselves have been creating and deciding both in the opposition and now in the government, here in Parliament, the alternative budgets of the opposition are dealt with within the time allocated to them. If I have understood this correctly, it will happen in November, so be careful, the option will come, and at this point I can say that it will be much fairer, it will be more employment- and growth-intensive and, above all, it will aim for lower government debt. You'll see. We have found that the government has already begun to flinch. For example, former State Secretary Sailas wrote a very critical article today in Helsingin Sanomat. As I have said before, if this wavering continues, then perhaps in future we can consider giving the government assistance in advance, but if such a serious situation occurs, then it is worth considering whether there are any other options. But for the time being, I suggest that we stick to the agreed rules of the game adopted by the Finns themselves, and I would hope that this will be achieved by all the parliamentary groups and all the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u367	Madam President! This is where group leader Lindtman well described this process. I could tell Mr Savio that last year, at this time, the Finns brought their own alternative budget, 11 November, and we are likely to be there on the same page, depending on it, because the Honourable Parliament decides to act. These alternative budgets will be in the Chamber shortly after this mid-November, and we will then become a comprehensive option. All in all, we have also said on many occasions that we have an explicit disagreement about this big economic line. We see that, in this situation, cutting policy will lead to nothing and that, in this situation, we need stronger investment in employment. We have also been surprised at this point — now that we have looked at the matter of last week and this week, this yellow book and the government’s proposal — that, for example, the alternative budget of the Finns of Peru was then 11.11. was almost the opposite of this, which means that there might have been a plus, and now the corresponding articles have a minus. I did not understand that this was the intention of the Finns. However, I would like to end by saying thank you to Mrs Savilo for being able to be here in the Chamber. Yes, indeed, you deserve a genuine and sincere set of hats. You are the only representative of the government party here and you have sat and listened to this debate. Thank you for that, because that is what this parliamentary work should also be about, that there is genuine interaction and debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u368	The 27th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u369	The 28th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u370	The 29th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 7 October 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-06-ps-45.u371	For table setting, the 30th item is presented in the order of business. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 7 October 2015. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the third draft amending budget: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the central office by 2 p.m. on Wednesday 7 October 2015 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments have been proposed to the proposal for an add-on budget, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
