ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Eeva-Johanna Eloranta Li Andersson has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Eeva-Johanna Eloranta Li Andersson has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Li Andersson Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u4	Madam President! Is there still a chance to fix it? I was supposed to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u5	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Li Andersson Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Mrs Salonen, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u8	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u9	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second and only reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Thomas Blomqvist Kristiina Salonen has proposed that the Government proposal HE 128/2015 vp be included in 2. the draft law is rejected. Ms Salonen, supported by Mrs Kiljunen, has tabled two motions for statements under protest 1. With the support of Mrs Biaudet, Thomas Blomqvist has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u10	First, the vote will be taken on the rejection of the 2nd bill contained in the government proposal HE 128/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u11	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u12	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto Kristiina Salonen has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u13	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto Aino-Kaisa Pekonen has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. With the support of Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has submitted 4 statements of objections. Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u14	The vote will take place first on the rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u15	Mr President! I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u16	President! You, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u17	It was also my intention to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u18	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u19	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u20	Mr President! I'll inform you that my intention was to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u21	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u22	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Sirpa Paatero, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has tabled a motion for a statement under protest 1 and by Thomas Blomqvist, supported by Eva Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u23	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u24	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Hanna Sarkkinen, supported by Antero Laukkanen, suggested that 1. the draft law is rejected. Kristiina Salonen, supported by Ville Skinner, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u25	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of the first draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u26	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u27	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Ilmari Nurminen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u28	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 December 2015. In the debate, Mrs Myller, supported by Mr Nasima Razmyar, has tabled two motions for statements under protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u29	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u30	Section 25 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u31	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! The Section for Local Government and Health of the Committee on Finance prepares the section's report on the administrative budget of the Ministry of Justice, and that is why, as President of its section, I am presenting the report in this respect. The actual draft budget proposed a total budget of around EUR 906 million for the administrative sector. It was supplemented by a budget amendment of EUR 17.5 million, and the committee also added less than EUR 3 million to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice in the report. In other words, the total will rise to around EUR 926 million, which is significantly more than has been available this year. The committee is very pleased that next year's budget is... [PresidentMariaLohela :Mrs,I ask you to move outside the Chamber if there is a need for further discussions,so that this is the case. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u34	Madam President! I would like to thank the committees, the sections on local government and health and their chairmen for the thorough work you have done. Now that the Committee on Finance's report proposes additional funding of EUR 2.8 million for the activities of the most congested courts and the enforcement agency to combat the shadow economy, I am pleased to say that, in the administrative field of the Ministry of Justice, all the main proposals from the parliamentary working party will be implemented in next year's budget. The total budget proposal for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice amounts to EUR 926 million, taking into account the increases proposed by the Committee on Finance. Compared to the current year's budget, the operating conditions of administrative organisations will even improve slightly next year: real change plus EUR 6 million. This is mainly due to the additional allocation under the Government Programme for internal security and justice. The administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice accounts for EUR 17.5 million per year for this additional allocation. In this context, I would like once again to thank the parties for their excellent work in the parliamentary working group a year ago. However, the September decision on budgetary frameworks means that the economic situation of the administrative sector will deteriorate from 2017 onwards, due to the necessary adjustment measures for central government finances. In particular, since 2018, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is in a tight financial situation. The deterioration in the budget situation will be addressed in 16 with the following measures: 1) Steps will be taken promptly in the justice reform programme. 2) Prisons will not be abolished during the current reign. As agreed in the Government negotiations, the operating conditions of the Criminal Sanctions Agency in the current institution structure will be secured in the future spending limits decision. 3) Structural reforms are being carried out. 4) Enhance action through five large-scale IT reforms. Of these, a total of EUR 18 million has been allocated in the draft budget for 16 of these five information systems projects, with an overall increase of EUR 50 million between 16 and 19. The strong growth of asylum seekers in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice will have a significant impact on the functioning of public and private legal assistance, administrative rights and the Supreme Administrative Court over the next few years. In preparation for the 16 proposals, it was estimated that in 15 the number of asylum seekers would be 30,000, of which the administrative court will mainly receive complaints in 16. The need for resources for the Helsinki Administrative Court has been estimated at 10,000 based on the handling of complaints. The need for resources for the Supreme Administrative Court is based on 5000 complaints. From the point of view of the rapid handling of asylum cases, it is important to do everything possible to improve the handling of cases throughout the asylum process, from submission of applications to appeal and enforcement of decisions. This work is urgently being done by the government and the courts in the area of judicial procedures. However, this increase is so significant that despite the efficiency measures, a significant increase in resources is needed. The Government will propose an additional €23.6 million in funding for legal protection expenditure for asylum seekers next year. It is targeted at private and public legal aid, administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. As early as the beginning of the year, administrative rights are preparing to increase staff by around 100 new employees and the highest administrative court by around 30 new employees. At the end of the day, Mr President, I would like to say that by streamlining the legal instruments in a juridical manner, we will also be able to cope with this challenge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u35	Madam President! It is all right that the committee added a little bit of money to the most painful points, but, as the report says, the financial situation in the spending limits period is seriously deteriorating, by more than EUR 30 million in 2019. Now that there has been a public debate on whether Parliament has the right to allocate and justify appropriations, inter alia, by combating the shadow economy, I think it does. Parliament cannot, of course, influence the decisions of an independent judiciary, but Parliament has every right to justify the allocation of additional appropriations by saying that the grey economy is a serious problem and that the money invested in the black economy comes back in many ways. And, as the Minister has said, there will certainly be something to be done to improve efficiency, but the government will now have an important place to decide when the spring JTS, the budgetary plan, is to be made up of the legal security of citizens and the level of fighting the shadow economy in the coming years in the new spending limits period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u36	Madam President! Finland is the rule of law and Finland must act in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. In that sense, the Minister’s line was good. However, I would like to raise a point of view, perhaps a little more human. I know that Minister Lindström is well thinking about how to facilitate the situation of people in enforcement. After all, the State acts as a greater loan shark than any other system. In view of the difficult position of the people who thus have enforcement charges, the various charges that come on top of them are very easy to raise the interest rate by more than 20% when it starts to fall. Very often it happens that a person who is in real trouble already does not really get out of it. In that sense, I would like to encourage you to think — and it would be good to hear a little about it — whether there are ways to make their position easier. But the heirs would have theirs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u37	Madam President! It is very good that the Committee on Finance now decided to increase these resources to combat the shadow economy. In committee and in our section, many very concerned speakers were heard from experts because there is now a lack of money from the state if there is a great deal of money to be cut. It would be interesting now to hear how the Minister will assess whether there is still something to be done in the future to ensure that work against the informal economy can be better put in place. I would also like to ask about the financial situation of the Criminal Sanctions Agency from the perspective of the future. Experts expressed concern that, for example, measures under the Good Social Welfare Act adopted last season will not be allowed to be taken, but that prisoners will spend more and more time in their cells, which will not improve their chances of life after that prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u38	Madam President! The Minister of Justice said well in this area, and it is great that resources are still being allocated to combating the shadow economy. Asylum concerns all of us Finns, and we know that costs will increase. It is precisely the case that next year we will not know, we will not yet be able to predict how many asylum seekers will be coming. These resources may also not be sufficient. How can you predict that future, Minister of Justice, how much more resources will we allocate there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u39	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the Committee on Budgets took note of this fight against the shadow economy. But contrary to what has often been said in this Chamber, it is not just about money. It has been falsely argued here many times that the investment in the informal economy of the SDP's alternative budget would be based only on the 20 million that we have proposed in the form of additional appropriations. There is also a great deal to be done about legislation that does not require money. Let me take one example: criminalising the payment of underpaid wages. The SDP has proposed a programme to combat the shadow economy in paragraph 20. If implemented, it would generate significant additional revenue for the State. One factor that belongs to your administrative sector, both the Ministry of Labour and Justice, in this area of the Ministry of Justice: do you intend to bring in the payment of the underpaid salary?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u40	Mr President! We have a good and successful Attorney General Lindström. I would like to raise a few points. In open institutions, we have prisoners who don't belong there. I would like to ask Minister Lindström whether you think that money is too much of a policy of criminality at the moment. Second, to obtain judgments of a public sense of law. You've started your own work there. How's it going? And while there's time, it's fine conversion. We have promised that the conversion of the fine will take effect within the agreed timeframe. Can you promise in front of Parliament that this legislation will be brought into order? Last of all, asylum seekers. We've had serious cases of rape. Do we get the message that rape is not accepted in this country and that it is an automation return if such things happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u41	Madam President! I'd like to ask the minister how it is with the district court network. We have produced a rare report in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in other words a unanimous report, in which we stressed that if we start thinking about the places of sittings and other things, the criteria should be known that how to start developing this district court network. This is a set of criteria that were called for, but we have not received it and we know nothing about it. I would like to ask the Minister if you have any further information on this. Now that we are also talking about more things coming and there are these congested seats, I would see no reason — if people are to have legal protection — at least to reduce the number of seats. We should develop, but not reduce. Can I have an answer to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u42	Madam President! The explosion in the number of asylum seekers also puts considerable pressure on the judiciary, and in that sense it is good that the supplementary draft budget allocated these additional resources of just over EUR 7 million to the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court in order to deal with complaints about asylum applications. However, when we know the pressures on the whole chain of authorities and also the estimates of future asylum seekers may still change, there is still concern about how the judiciary will cope with this. It is very important that these resources are secured in the asylum authorities' chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u43	Madam President! Of course, the Finnish rule of law is facing challenges in such a situation when there are many asylum seekers. Consideration should be given to matters relating to legal aid and the processing of applications. The cost of these matters will rise. What is the Minister's estimate of the costs of the coming year? I'd like to hear it again. The second point is that this fight against the black economy has been found to be profitable on many occasions. Do you think that the contributions that have been made are sufficient?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u44	Madam President! A number of complaints have been made about the wolf's stock management waivers. Almost every exemption has been complained of and thus supported by administrative rights. Complaints have been made by various nature conservation associations and bodies which may not even have an interest in this matter. My question to the Minister is: what measures does the government intend to take to avoid such so-called unnecessary and pointless complaints and to have the right to appeal only to those who really have a interest in the matter on which they are being appealed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u45	Madam President! First of all, the additional resources put forward to the judiciary are very important to ensure that the historic high number of asylum seekers does not overburden Helsinki's administrative and administrative rights. The second point I would like to raise concerns the new paternity law, which will enter into force at the beginning of next year. As a result, the process of recognising paternity will be simplified and the child’s right to know both biological parents will be improved. However, there are still shortcomings in the proposal. For example, it does not include provisions on the definition of maternity, which would also enable the parenting of a child born into the family of a female couple to be confirmed, under certain conditions, without the need for a family adoption. According to the European Court of Human Rights, cohabiting couples of the same sex and of the same sex must not be put on an unequal footing, although this is not the case in Finnish legislation at the moment. I would like to ask the Minister: when is this going to happen and people would be genuinely equal in family law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u46	Madam President! From what Mr Pelkonen has done, it is good to continue on the same subject. The best interests of the child and the realisation of the child's right play a major and important role in the work of the Legal Committee. Particular attention is paid to legal rights, and these rights and knowledge of biological origin may even have an impact on the health of the child. Sometimes it may even be a matter of life and life when it comes to transplants, for example. Indeed, as the accompanying laws of the equal marriage law, that law on paternity and maternity has also been amended, but the laws remain incomplete in so far as I too would join those who ask that, for example, there should be new changes to the paternity law. And with regard to difficult crimes, rapes against children, for example, there is still work to improve the status of the victim.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u47	Mr President! From the outset, I would like to thank you for this additional funding now and also for what the government has previously provided for the administration of justice. Now we really get to that level of funding for the parliamentary working party, and last season I was happy to lead this working group. This is great, but at the same time I hope that the reforms, as the Minister said there, such as the reform of justice, will be put in place as soon as possible, because it is not just the additional funding that will solve this challenge, but also the reform. But then I would like to take and thank the Minister for being awake in this further examination of the asylum process. In other words, when there are negative asylum decisions, they are appealed to administrative rights, and now you have already made some reductions in the compositions. So I ask you: will you continue to decentralise matters to the various administrative rights and will you extend this extension and further lighten the compositions without jeopardising legal protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u48	Mr President! Now that we are discussing the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, I would have asked the Minister that next year, especially on the transport side, there will be substantial increases in fines. They can certainly be justified, at least with financial implications. Well, then there has been some criticism as to whether they can be justified, for example, by improving road safety, and in this context it has now emerged that since next year some penalties have been imposed, for example. As far as speeding is concerned, we would have more convictions than, for example, assault. This has now raised a little debate among the citizens, namely whether this is entirely in line with the general sense of justice, and it is certainly good to reflect on this in this Chamber too. And now that you have this reflection on these other sanctions and penalties, I would have asked: how do you respond to this criticism, which comes precisely to these questions of justice, that speeding is a higher sentence than, for example, assault?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u49	Madam President! From the point of view of Lapland, it is extremely important that the present proposal commits itself to carrying out a study on issues relating to the possible ratification of ILO 169 and, above all, to examining the definition of indigenous peoples and potential land rights. As we all know, the situation in Upper Lapland has been extremely inflamed for decades, and even now the most regrettable news comes from there, even to the violence. I would have asked the Minister how this study will be carried out and how it will be scheduled.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u50	Mr Laukkanen and then the minister for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u51	Madam President! The concept of the rule of law in Finnish society is built on the independence of the judiciary. This concept of independence also refers to the economic independence of the Court of Justice and to the independence that is free of economic cycles under all circumstances and that is guaranteed to citizens regardless of their wealth. The outgoing President of the Supreme Court, Pauliine Koskello, expressed deep concern that money is currently trying to steer the judicial system. The Court of Justice, the Office of the Public Prosecutor, the Office for Enforcement — all of these have expressed concern about the continuing lack of resources. The D.A.'s office even announced that they can't handle anything more than the most serious cases because of a lack of money. I ask how the Ministry intends to deal with this situation in the future — in addition to these additions, what is now being proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u52	Secretary Lindström, three minutes from that location.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u53	Madam President! Many questions — I will try to answer as many as I can and then I will continue later. In other words, let us start here with Mr Uotila and many others, such as Mrs Huovinen, on the future of the fight against the shadow economy. The government has stated that the fight against the shadow economy will continue in the future. The fact that the Committee on Finance has added money to this, of course, shows how important this is. In my opinion, this is probably a common desire — if I use this somewhat clumsy word — to continue to fight against the black economy. The monitoring of the shadow economy has also been seriously considered by the government, and we are taking this issue very seriously. Then — well, let's go one thing at a time — Mr Rossi drew attention to these enforcement issues and to facilitating the position of those in debt, and that is quite true, we now have on the OM side what we can do about these matters. Finns have such an attitude that they always have to pay their debts, but whether they have to pay for their lives is, of course, a big question. So some kind of justice, humanity in these matters must be and that at some point people should be forgiven for these things. We are wondering what to do with these things. Continual discussions have been held, among other things, with the enforcement side, which would be the means of facilitating the cause of these indebted ones. This is a big deal and I'll be on my desk in more detail when I think about it. Representative Lindtman: criminalisation of underpaid wages. It is of course extremely important and it is something which would then have to be negotiated within the government in relation to whether this is the government that brings this up. I am not in the position of suggesting that it should be brought here, but I can present it for discussion within the government, that what is the position of the government — it will then be decided jointly by the group, whether it will be brought here. Mr Heinose and Mr Laukkanen had a similar question: is money too directing the judiciary? It is true that, in a tight economic situation, money is important, but I say it is not over-directed. Even today, my speech proved that the OM situation is good at the moment, but it is not to be lulled — the spending limits period is tight, and the end is going to be extremely tight. Yes, we must ensure that legal protection is ensured in all situations. Mr Heinonen asked about this legislation on rape. This is an issue that is now under consideration. After this has surfaced in this asylum seeker debate, we must now look at the whole of this legislation. What are the tools with which we can respond to these challenges, which are now on the table because the legislation has been drawn up in another period of time? This job is going on. Time's up. I'll keep answering. I'll try to answer everyone's questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u54	Värderade fru talman! En av de viktigaste sakerna i ett samhalle är att medborgarna kan lita på rauttsväsendet och att behandlingstiderna inte är för långa. Det är bra att finansutskottet nu stätter till en del pengar till domstolarna, men jag är oerhört bekymrad över vad som hender från 2019 framåt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u55	Mr President! The Tax Administration estimates that Finland loses between EUR 4 and 6 billion every year to the informal economy, and this is also a conservative estimate. That is why the Social Democrats have put the fight against the shadow economy at the heart of their own alternative budget. The SDP has also published a programme in more than 20 paragraphs to combat the shadow economy, which includes the criminalisation of underpaid work by Mr Lindtman in other tastes. It is good that the government has withdrawn its own proposals, for example with regard to the tax evaders' amnesty law and the management register project, at the request of the opposition and civil society. The Legal Affairs Committee gave a unanimous opinion on this budget and there we called for these budgets to combat the shadow economy, which we received. This too is a good thing, but it is not enough. Minister Lindström, are you prepared to take up the SDP's proposal for a programme to combat the shadow economy? This is one of the points on which real cash flow could also be obtained for the State and this economic situation could be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u56	Madam President! My question too would have been related to the Sami question and to the fact that, for a long time, a Nordic Sámi agreement has already been negotiated. I would have asked where it might be coming to Parliament, and in many respects it is already very advanced. In addition, the Sámi District Act is also being reformed. At what point does this process take place? Of course, the situation in the north in recent years has been rather tight with regard to the Sami issues, so it would be important to move forward on these issues as well. And although it does not directly belong to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, it must, however, be thanked at this stage for, for example, increasing the funding for language nests by 300,000, which is a significant issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u57	Mr President! It was in this autumn that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights discussed a government proposal on the conversion of the fine, which withdrew the previous fine. However, the Ministry of Justice is now preparing this bill again, and the intention would be to bring it into force at the same time as the previous law on the conversion of the fine. This law is very important for the legal security and safety of many traders. Can we wait for this law to be adopted by Parliament in the original timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u58	Mr President! In this area of administration, the draft budget states that these cases before the Court of Justice are becoming more complex. This is a bad thing for people who have to go to court because this predictability of the trial is weakening. One of the reasons for this is the gradual extension of European Union legislation to a wider area in the use of administrative law in both private and criminal law. My question is: should Finland not play a more active role in preventing this EU regulation against Finland's interests?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u59	Mr President! I would like to return to one point which is not a direct budgetary issue, but an important point for the Ministry of Justice, and that is that now, Minister of Justice, you have more than six months of experience in carrying out two very demanding and challenging tasks, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour. I'll be wondering what your experience will be after this six months. You do, as you say, the work that has been agreed in the negotiations of the government, and for that all credit. But have you noticed, for example, in the context of this legislation on compulsory legislation, that there may be a difficult conflict, that the Minister of Justice is able to give good legal advice to the Minister of Labour in circumstances where he has to take responsibility for the management of both ministries? I do not think it is a problem that the Minister of Justice is a layman, that we have neither a soldier nor a general as Minister of Defence, that the layman is able to lead the Ministry of Justice, and I give you full recognition of this;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u60	Mr President! It was great to hear from the Minister that the Sipilä Government, in this regard too, adheres to the basis and results of parliamentary preparation. This representative, Mr Tolvanen's working group, did a good job, and it is great that the government has taken this programme and also the practical steps to take forward these policies, which is an honour to the Sipilä Government. The fight against the shadow economy is important, and we all know that what is invested in it will certainly come back. Of course, this estimate by the SDP that ten times is coming back is as weak as the entire alternative budget, but it is now a side-effect and we are talking about the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u63	Mr President! Mr Rantakangas, repeat that speech completely. You are now engaging in careful misunderstanding and giving false information. Just a moment ago in this Chamber, I said that our assessment is based on a 23-point programme to combat the shadow economy. I just asked if the Minister of Justice was going to present a criminalisation of underpaid employment. I have at least one supporter for this idea, because it is Group leader Lindström from the last period. You signed Mr Tolppanen's initiative to criminalise the payment of underpaid wages. Are you now going to exercise the authority you have as Minister of Justice? And Mr Rantakangas, let us ask you about this 24-point programme: is it okay for you to be able to report corruption offences to the preliminary investigation authorities without prejudice to confidentiality rules? I think that's okay with Zyskowicz, okay? Is the court-martial okay? Are you taking our show?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u64	Mr President! 20 million more money to fight the black economy and 200 million back. This was the subject of criticism, because everyone understands that this contribution will not achieve ten times the result. If this were the case, it would probably be worth putting a billion there, then we would not have a sustainability gap at all. In this respect, the criticism was directed at the contribution and output you have made. These performances you have there on the show are good, and I'm sure they're very forward-looking. But let us move forward together, and we all believe that the shadow economy must be combated. It was a good thing that the government, in addition to the budget, increased the appropriations that were lacking there and took forward this good work of the parliamentary working group. This is not a party political issue, this is a common issue, a matter for the whole Parliament, and it is also a message here that the grey economy has no acceptance in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u65	Mr President! In the previous negotiations on the Government Programme, I was involved and was allowed to lead the Grey Economy Task Force, i.e. in the Government Programme negotiations involving representatives of six parties. It's one of the most demanding tasks I've ever had. We ended up with 31 proposals for measures that came into the government programme of the previous government, and some 20 million contributions to the informal economy were agreed in the Government Programme negotiations. During the negotiations, I was still in contact with Director Hirvonen — a super-expert in these — that between 300 and 400 million were the realistic level of ambition that it could achieve. Now the demos are 20 million and 200 million. It is in the very expert-level relationship that was already in place, and has led to a significant result in these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u66	Madam President! When a foreigner in Finland commits a serious crime or repeatedly commits a crime, he can be expelled from the country. The current process is such that the police first make a proposal to the Finnish Immigration Service for expulsion, then the Finnish Immigration Service decides, after which this decision can be appealed to the Administrative Court and then you can apply for an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Is this not the last stage completely unnecessary, and do you intend to remove it, Minister Lindström, in order to streamline and speed up the judicial process? Secondly, this government action programme on asylum says that the plenary session on asylum will be speeded up. What are you going to do in this regard? Could it be thought that there would be no appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court for the decision of the Helsinki Administrative Court on asylum?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u67	Mr President! Very good speech from Mrs Zyskowicz, and I fully agree. It is good that the processing of asylum applications is now being speeded up because it affects the costs of the reception system. The increase in the number of asylum seekers has increased sexual harassment against women and girls, among others. How will this be addressed in the administrative field of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u68	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that Mr Rantakangas raised this estimate of the return on the alternative budget, and, as I said, it is not just based on the extra 20 million, but on this extensive programme, which I have now taken three examples of. Mr President! In addition to Mr Rantakangas, Prime Minister Sipilä criticised the SDP's alternative budget for the fight against this grey economy. It may be worth recalling the share of the informal economy in the city centre's alternative budget last season. It was EUR 600 million without any programme, without any investments. Representative Rantakangas and then Chairman Sniper's face played 600 million euros out of the air. At least we've got extra rains, we've got a program. Now, Minister of Justice Lindström, are you going to accept this motion, as we have said, whether you intend to tackle the black economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u69	Representative Rantakangas, followed by Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u70	Mr President! As I said, we all share the view that we should send a message from Parliament and the government that the shadow economy is not being approved and that we should take all measures to do so. I am sure we all agree on that, and all the good proposals, including those from the opposition, will certainly be taken into account and implemented by the Ministry. But your performance, 20 million stakes and the 200, of course, is nonsense. No one believes that. You'll believe it because you've made the budget and you need to make that $300 million look positive, this show next year. But you will not present in your alternative budget the 3 billion adjustment programme you proposed in the elections. This is where Congressman Lindtman was talking about some 600 million. You put $3 billion on the table for savings, adjustments, and you have budget proposals that can only be found in a small fraction. In other words, it is worth looking at your own proposals now, when you are going to criticise the proposals made by the previous opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u72	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u73	Madam President! First of all, if we were to start with this fight against the grey economy. In order to avoid any misconceptions, I say that the government will therefore take these Socialist proposals very seriously, because they are perfectly reasonable proposals. The ministerial group on economic policy has taken this issue under the agenda, so to speak, that is to say, we are now examining all the measures that have been taken during the previous government, they are setting out what has already been done, what is being done and what might be sensible in the future, so that this work is going on — let it be quite clear that this is now being said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u78	Madam President! It is very good that additional resources are being allocated to justice and internal security — thank you, Minister Lindström, for that. The financial situation of the judiciary, in particular, has long been very tight. We need more resources there. The costs of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice are very much staff and premises costs. In this situation, too, it is good that the prison network is maintained and that prisons are renovated as necessary. That's why we need a long-term prison network. Mr Lindström, what is the status of the renovation of Pelso Prison at the moment? Finally, I would like to say that the administrative premises of the Ministry of Justice are very valuable facilities. Are we having a discussion with Senate properties about these premises rents?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u79	Madam President! Cops and prosecutors have been having a tough time, and now there are a few additions coming up. But I would like to ask you a question that has not been discussed here at all, namely that two asylum seekers are now being arrested who are suspected of crimes. We had a criminal trial in 2007 related to a massacre in Rwanda, and this trial lasted five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u82	Mr President! The fight against financial crime and the shadow economy is one of the main priorities of the parliamentary term, and it was necessary that we added EUR 1.3 million in the section on municipal and health enforcement. This would have been easy because the allocation of additional resources only to the upstream of the processing chain, to the police and to the prosecution body, would have led to a congested case in courts and enforcement. With this addition, as it were, we were able to prevent the accumulation of approximately 10 million of the recovery from being lost. But, yes, I say to the Social Democrats that your dream nonsense about this fight against the grey economy must be disbeliefed, and I would be happy to hear what the information service has said about your calculations here. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: when we look at the spending limits period and go to 2019 — there are very harsh figures, minus EUR 30 million at least — and in addition, the government will have to make further savings in this spending limits period once the savings have been cancelled, what steps will you take to ensure that the judicial reform programme is implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u83	Mr President! I find it quite irresponsible that, if we are talking about fighting the shadow economy, some here dare to call the proposals in relation to it nonsense. I say quite frankly that I would have liked Mr Rantakangas to have listened. When we looked at this last alternative budget in the centre — when we began to make our own responsible work, of course I got to know it, and I had to dig my glasses when I was not going to believe my eyes — the centre had found 600 million in the fight against the grey economy. By the way, we examined these proposals and found that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u86	Mr President! From the point of view of internal security, it is also positive that it is now being said that the prison network will remain unchanged. On a specific question already raised by Mrs Torniainen: the renovation of the Pelso prison in Vaala, if I remember correctly, a decision was taken already in 2010. The budget was also set aside, but yet this renovation has not been carried out. Apparently one problem is that, if the renovation is made, it results in a significant increase in the Senate rent costs, and there is no budget for these rising rent costs. The Committee on Finance has now taken a clear line that the Committee considers it important that the renovation project in Pelso prison, among other things, be carried out in accordance with the timetable. As a specific question, Minister, how have you thought about this matter, the renovation, going forward now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u87	Madam President! As the Minister said and known, asylum seekers employ the judiciary. It is important to step up efforts and increase the budget to speed up the processes and dismantle the mist. I'm sure this will be a savings in a long run. The Minister has already answered my question in part, but now that we have asked about the adequacy of this money, it is of course difficult to assess this, but I ask the Minister whether the money will be enough for this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u88	Madam President! In the supplementary draft budget, the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court received additional resources of EUR 7.7 million, and the Minister there said that they could hire up to 130 more people to defuse the congestion caused by asylum applications. The Committee on Finance has considered it important for the judiciary to be adequately resourced, but at the same time has also drawn attention to the need to pay attention to these operating processes. It cannot just be that money is always being increased in order to get more people, but that processes and operating models must be made flexible and fast. At what point is this going on? Secondly, I would like to ask you a question about that traffic curve. A system of penalties for traffic offences is to be reviewed. At what point is it that lighter traffic offences would be turned into administrative sanctions? This would reduce the number of offences affecting the right to drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u89	Madam President! I would like to return to this debate on the informal economy, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his line that all serious proposals are also taken seriously on the government's side and familiarised with them. Without horns and teeth, you have to look at the best ways to get someone to hold on to this action. I believe that in this recent eruption of Mrs Rantakangas — now she has gone on the run from this debate she herself opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u92	Mr President! I would ask the Minister for a more precise answer on the interdependence of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs in relation to that district court network issue. Saving pressures are really tough, and there are of course side offices that would save money for the Ministry of Justice, but cost pressures would in many cases be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior’s administration, and this kind of zero-sum game is certainly not making public finances any easier. This is particularly the case in places in which there is a prison, which then, of course, requires police resources for the transport of prisoners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u93	Mr President! To this gray economy. The most important contribution to this debate was from the Minister because he said that the concrete programme to combat the shadow economy presented by the SDP is serious and those ideas go to the government's table. Well, that's worth it. During the last term of government, which was also led by the Coalition Party, it was determined jointly that the programme would produce between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million a year, and no one questioned it because it produced it. It will not be a future programme or action of 200 million if it is not a credible programme, and that is why we did this programme, which will make it 200 million from the black economy. Let me just take an example: if one thing is taken, i.e. the tax number is lent to sectors other than construction, then revenue will come. If you take the Act on Customer Liability and reform it, you start to pay taxes. Criminalisation of underpaid employment and increased sanctions
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u94	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his good answer regarding the district court network. It was quite clear there on the basis of which the Minister then took the line in due course. But the real question is daily fines and fines. After all, most of them are charged for traffic offences. I would like to ask the Minister whether you have wondered where the border goes so that traffic control and raising money do not appear in the same package. This, at least in my opinion, is important for general law-abiding. And I would like to ask what Mr Jokinen asked whether these minor traffic offences, which have happened a little unintentionally, without endangering traffic, could be treated as an administrative procedure, which means that no card will be removed from three minor offences.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u95	Madam President! I would have asked about this right of appeal and the functioning of the administrative courts. In other words, we have an appeal against some 30,000 decisions by different authorities each year. What is the right of appeal of a citizen? For example, this wolf’s canal permit, which was applied for last spring: it was quite overtaken by this complaint process, even though a positive decision later came. But in bigger matters we have many investments that await administrative decisions. Another major issue is the right of appeal between the authorities. Has there been a new development link, because it would also be much better to negotiate than to argue with one another in administrative law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u96	The representatives of Kankaanniemi, Marin and Hänninen, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u97	Mr President! Indeed, the section showed that, in the fight against the shadow economy, the additional funding of EUR 2.9 million this year will end at the end of the year if no increase is made, and then we decided on the allocation reserve to increase EUR 2.8 million, and I understand that in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice it is the sum that has been drawn up by the previous government and the Socialist Minister for Finance. In other words, this will now ensure that the fight against the black economy will not become more difficult in the narrowness that would have arisen if this increase had not been made, and this is, of course, the most important message. Now, of course, it is interesting to examine the Socialist option that it is really an option.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u98	Mr President! I too share Mrs Huovinen's and Mr Ihalainen's thanks to Minister Lindström. It is good that you recognise that good work has been done during the last term of government in the fight against the shadow economy, you recognise that the programme for combating the shadow economy presented by the SDP is good and has a lot of openings that should also be taken as government proposals. We have also done good work in the Committee on Legal Affairs under the leadership of Mr Tolvanen and have received joint opinions, joint reports out there, and I see that, although we are now across the government-opposition limits, this programme for combating the shadow economy, for example, is such that it would certainly have common views on these issues. I hope that the representatives of Rantakangas and Sarkomaa will also see these opportunities, which the fight against the black economy has, and how it can improve the economy. So this is where I call for cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u99	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Tolvanen in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for having produced good reports and good opinions. Indeed, this reinstatement of appropriations for the informal economy is a major achievement for both Finnish society and the economy. In other words, our alternative budget assumes that the continuation of this current action programme will bring about EUR 50 million more tax revenue per year, and I see that it is quite realistic. And, of course, there are other measures which would then increase the revenue from the grey economy, but I am not going to analyse them here. I would like to thank the Minister for raising the issue of legal certainty in your reply, and that is the first point. I hope that when we start thinking about the district court network, think about how to develop it, these criteria will then really be open and a proper consultation will take place and the special needs of these district courts will be taken into account, just as Mrs Katainen did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u100	Then Minister Lindström for 3 minutes, and then he goes to the Ministry of the Interior's administrative branch.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u101	Madam President! Thank you for a very constructive discussion with important things. Once again, I'm sorry, I'm not sure I have time to answer everyone, but I'm going to try to pick up some of these here, which I haven't had time to answer yet. Let us go to this ILO agreement raised by Mr Kärnä because I was there yesterday in the north enjoying the frost, but also with the Sámi. It was a good conversation we had there. There was also a representative of this minority present, so I received a good report on it. Of course, I was already aware of what has happened, but I think it is important that I go there and face-to-face, see those people, so to speak, eye to eye and hear their opinions. As far as this report is concerned, I am sure that at the very beginning of this year, as soon as possible, the aim will be to launch this study. Of course, I received feedback: Haven’t we already worked it out enough? There is certainly knowledge and clarification, but we would now try this problem, which is big locally, to resolve in a constructive way and to find a way to that agreement. I think it is the clou, which is why it is worth looking for and then moving forward with this difficult issue. There's also a detailed question about Pelso Prison. Those corrections will proceed during this regime, but I cannot promise here that they will be speeded up. That renovation could begin at the earliest in 17 C.E. But next year we have Kerava, Hämeenlinna and Investment in Jyväskylä Prisons is on the way. But Pelso has not been forgotten, let it be said in this context. Further to this district court network: Representative Katainen raised this point that how these costs will then be distributed, whether they will then come to the Ministry of the Interior. This is a reflection on what we must now do. This legal protection is an important issue. Of course, these tributaries are one thing, which is probably part of it, but of course I also know that in many places this is a kind of subcontracting — there are small law firms that depend on these district courts — and therefore all the solutions that involve it also affect it and employment. That all of this must be weighed and then made a decision so that it can then be lived with. I must also say that this staff is waiting for a solution. They have now been hanging in this loose hang for a long time, so to speak, and they have been telling me to make a decision, whatever it may be, but make decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u102	The examination of section 25 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u103	Madam President! In its own position, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights stressed, in particular, the budgetary pressure of asylum seekers and the safeguarding of the capacity of the judiciary and the enforcement of sanctions, as well as the prevention of the shadow economy and economic crime. Overall, when the proposed budget is around 906 million, there is an increase of 17.5 million from the previous year. It is important that these additions focus, for example, on information systems projects for the Criminal Sanctions Agency and also on improving the status of the victim. In all, in this economic situation, the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice may be considered reasonable, given that some of the administrative sectors have been subjected to much more severe cuts. These small increases in appropriations will, to a certain extent, help the Ministry of Justice’s administrative sector, perhaps to a lesser extent, to balance the budgetary cuts which, overall, will come in the spending limits period. Indeed, the net savings of the Ministry of Justice in 2019 are already in the 30 and 40 million categories, so the Ministry of Justice's finances are also becoming a tight line. When the main items of expenditure concern personnel expenditure, this also puts considerable pressure on human resources over a period of a few years. The pressure exerted by the situation of asylum seekers on the courts is linked to obtaining and complaining about negative residence permits. Especially here in the capital region, the courts are congested. It might be worth considering, in the case of these asylum seekers, the possibility of distributing them to more courts and thus dispersing them. This situation also leads to an increase in the need for legal aid, which must be taken into account in the budget. It has therefore been important for the government to take active action to better manage the situation of asylum seekers and to make them more flexible with regard to judicial practices. An additional amount of almost EUR 13 million will now be allocated to the processing pot. However, it is already known that some 30,000 asylum seekers will come to Finland, even if only 10,000 of them will remain in Finland, that the budget for the resourced treatment congestion may be too low. It is regrettable that the budget for the informal economy in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is being lost. But the 1.3 million will come back to it. What is important, of course, is that in another administrative sector, the Ministry of the Interior, the police and the prosecutor will have permanent mechanisms to combat the shadow economy, so it is important that this too be taken care of. The system of further processing permits and related changes will reduce the workload in the appeal, and it will see savings of 2 million for next year, but it may be a little higher than expected. In the committee we had a discussion that perhaps more truth-based savings of around EUR 700000 would be available, which would therefore apply to all further proceedings on disputes and applications and a large part on criminal matters. This, of course, puts pressure on the standards of district courts. But I hope that progress can be made on the district court network in the same way as on the prison network. At this point, when the district court network was being reformed with a heavy hand only a few years ago, it is certainly not justified from a legal point of view to reshape it now. I do not see any sense in reducing it at this stage. Finally, I would like to say that the Sámi issue must be brought forward during this parliamentary term, hopefully also resolved. That is why the work that has been started is important. The questions about the Nordic Sámi agreement, the reform of the Sámi District Act, are also important. But I'm sure I'll get back to this later. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u104	Madam President! The appropriations proposed for 2016 for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice exceed the level of appropriations for 2015. The background to this is, in accordance with the Government Programme, that internal security and justice services and the capacity of the authorities are secured throughout the country. In general, additional resources for internal security and justice are very necessary. For example, an additional contribution to the development of information systems in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is now welcome in the budget. The main objective of the Aipa project is to create a uniform system for prosecutors' offices and public courts, which is pervasive and up to the time of archiving. It is part of the question of a gradual transition to a completely undocumented case in law. It is also important, however, that these projects continue to be funded. These reforms will achieve cost savings without jeopardising legal protection, which is one of the fundamental pillars. In accordance with the Government Programme, the objective is also to ensure effective legal protection in Finland. The financing of the judiciary is a particular challenge in this administrative sector. The reduction in funding has been reflected in court congestion. On the other hand, the extension of the procedure for the extension of the court order procedure has been estimated to reduce the workload in appeals and thus generate savings. Mr President! In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, several aspects of steering the functions of society are an important issue: the judgments correspond to the public sense of justice. For example, the bill and the citizens' initiative deal with this issue in relation to sexual crimes against children, both of which are coming together next year, estimated in February. The question is how this important issue will be taken into account in the Ministry of Justice. The bill, which is my own initiative, proposes to provide for an increase in the penalty scale for serious sexual crimes against children. Important issues are also the rapid return of the offender and the acceleration of the related process. It is difficult to predict the number of asylum seekers, which also highlights this issue strongly. The appropriations allocated to combat the shadow economy should continue to be sufficient and should focus on the whole process, up to its final stages. It is therefore a good thing that additional resources have been allocated to the fight against the shadow economy. One more thing I would like to mention is the adequacy of the resources available to Victim Support Finland. We have often considered, in the previous period, for example, when I was in the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the very important Victim Support Finland and its activities should be safeguarded. It is a very important help for the person who needs advice, guidance and listener at the moment when he has become a victim of crime. The positive thing now is that the crime victim fee will come into effect from the beginning of next year. It ensures that Victim Support is thus targeted at the funding it sorely needs. This if anyone is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u105	Madam President! I myself am a former court lawyer and I know a lot of court officials and I know their work and their workload. I have therefore been very pleased to see that there has been a response to the concern I have expressed here in previous speeches, namely that the budget has responded to these shortcomings. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, additional funds have now been allocated to the Helsinki Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court for the processing of asylum applications, and in particular for congested courts, which has also been my concern. There are traffic jams in the courts, and judges have been very pregnant with their own work, and they want to do quality work. In that case, the legal protection of persons also suffers when proceedings are extended, and that legal protection may already be a lost right at the time when this matter is dealt with. As far as information systems are concerned, I would like to draw attention not only to funding but also to the fact that when these projects are started, the content and the development work are of high quality and meet the needs. I have spoken here before about the fact that, for example, criminal convictions came under this system of Ritu and the judges complained that it slowed down and even increased the work. In other words, they must be flexible so that they actually work and not have to move information from one place to another and even do more work. And I always miss that lightness in court courts, because there are very long court hours. So, in Finland, we should think about this video tape hearing, so that the hearings recorded at the District Court would be received in court so that those who have already been recorded at the District Court would not have to be called again. In Sweden this system is, but in Finland it has not been achieved. I would like to see this developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u106	Mr President! Finland’s weak economic situation is also reflected in the resources available to the judiciary. One of the government’s key projects is the implementation of the Justice Reform Programme. The implementation of the programme has been launched in 2013 and will be completed by 2025. The purpose of the reform programme is to ensure the development of judicial institutions, prosecution, enforcement, legal aid and other justice to meet the changing needs of society. The reform will contribute to improving the legal protection of citizens in a context of savings in justice as part of a wider economic balance programme. Mr President! The situation of asylum seekers, which has been widely escalated in the summer and its long-standing lack of control, will entail considerable additional costs, which at the same time constitute a more uncertain part of the budget. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, this increase in the number of asylum seekers will be reflected, in particular, in rising legal aid costs for asylum seekers and in an increase in the number of complaints concerning asylum applications. The Government's supplementary draft budget allocates an additional allocation of more than EUR 10 million for legal aid for asylum seekers and for dealing with complaints concerning asylum applications. It is very important that these complaints can be dealt with as quickly as possible. In order to ensure that these funds are sufficient, the changes envisaged by the government are necessary both for the practice of legal aid for asylum seekers and for the appeal process for asylum decisions. The legislative amendment in preparation, which aims to allow asylum proceedings in the administrative courts of Turku and Eastern Finland, will ease the workload of the Helsinki Administrative Court for asylum seekers. The courts of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in particular have been very congested. The Ministry of Justice’s administrative sector receives an additional EUR 1.5 million to facilitate the situation of congested courts. Mr President! The budget for the Supreme Administrative Court will increase slightly next year compared to this year due to the rapid increase in the number of asylum seekers. There have also been increases in the operating costs of other courts. That's a good thing. The Minister noted the need for additional resources for both private and public justice. I would have asked Minister Lindström: is there enough public resources for other purposes than legal aid for asylum seekers? This concern has become a message from the field. Thank you to the government for having some light in the context of the Ministry of Justice's budget for next year. The Ministry of Justice accounts for EUR 17.5 million of the additional allocation for internal security and justice. It is almost the same amount that was decided to be cut in the 2014 budgetary plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u107	Madam President! Some additional appropriations are being allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice in line with the Government Programme guidelines. However, in the spending limits period that we are talking about in the framework, the appropriations are coming towards the end of the spending limits period, towards the end of the parliamentary term, to become tighter, and this poses challenges for us to continue to implement the democratic rule of law in Finland and to guarantee adequate legal protection for all people living and staying in Finland. Mr President! Internal security is a whole. The investigation of offences, the status of victims of crime, the management of the position of suspects and accused persons is a whole. It starts with an investigation into a crime, a preliminary investigation carried out by the police, the prosecution and then culminates in the courts: district courts, court courts, and possibly even the Supreme Court. All these points of reference must work in order to ensure legal certainty and also criminal liability in Finland. My view is that, towards the end of the spending limits period and in the future, financial savings in the administrative sector and in the judiciary of the Ministry of Justice will not be possible for much longer with a cheese planer and a mere economy ahead. Policies and solutions are needed specifically in legal policy and how cases and issues are handled in Finland. A number of good alternatives to this are provided by the Justice Development Programme last season. Of course, it is true that there are too many features of a mere austerity programme. I myself would like a genuine legal policy paper from the government, which would consider who is dealing with what at what stage, how to limit appeals, how to secure resources from the outset, so that in district courts and administrative courts, the first stage of the proceedings is sufficient competence and sufficient resources to deal with matters without further complaint. As a big development for the future, I see that in the future court cases are primarily handled by watching recordings of court-martial litigation and only in exceptional cases will the trial be repeated with witnesses. The witness's psychology has shown that human memories do not improve when time passes. Rather, they are distorted, and the most reliable information that has actually happened is usually obtained during interrogations with the police or, at the latest, under court hearings. Digitalisation also offers plenty of opportunities for the development of the judicial system. The future is that the defendants, the parties to the trial and the witnesses can, for example, communicate with the court through video communication from a remote service point. Mr President! The biggest legal security problem in Finland is too long a trial. It is a saying in English that justice Delayed is justice denied, meaning that if the case is prolonged, the solution will not matter and the right to justice has already been lost. The big challenge for our talk and, in particular, for our administrative court is creating this asylum-seekers crisis, which is currently at hand. At this point I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that an unhealthy phenomenon has arisen in connection with the situation of asylum seekers, in which we have such quack law offices in Finland, which have even paid asylum seekers to transfer their cases to these offices. You can compare this to a prison store that runs counter to every kind of ethics between a lawyer and a lawyer. I therefore hope that the Ministry of Justice will take action so that legal assistance for asylum seekers is in the hands of ethical and legal experts. Mr President! Finally, in this section of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to draw attention to the availability of specialised legal aid services throughout the country. The Finnish Bar Association has long been concerned that in the future we will have large parts of Finland, where there will no longer be people and companies offering ordinary criminal law and family and family law services. I therefore hope that legal aid will be developed in the future in such a way that there is still an incentive for lawyers to deal with cases of ordinary people rather than with complex business law, and that it will be ensured that legal protection is not only adequate for district court services and prosecution services, but also adequate legal assistance and legal services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u108	Madam President! Now that we are talking about this kind of case law and these are increasing all the time, as asylum tourism is increasing, the same pace will be added to these criminals here. For example, these Isis fighters, who had been proven to have killed 11 people in Iraq, cannot be returned there because they are likely to have the death penalty. At least that's what we've been told. I would now have asked the Minister of Justice if the death penalty could be returned to Finland for such repeat offenders. For example, if even the centra Finn has committed many murders and repeated its crime, is it not right and reasonable that we should not support such a person here any longer but put an end to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u109	Madam President! The concept of the rule of law in Finnish society is built on the independence of the judiciary. The concept of independence also refers to the economic independence of the Court of Justice and its independence, which is free of economic cycles and, in all circumstances, guaranteed to citizens regardless of their wealth and income levels. While Finnish society must accept a high level of taxation as the starting point for taxation, it is right and reasonable for all citizens to be guaranteed access to justice and to seek justice as part of the basic services. The judiciary should not be regarded as productive activity but as part of basic services serving all parties to society. The Committee on Finance stresses the importance of the basic funding of the courts and that it should be brought to a level which allows the courts to carry out properly the tasks set out in the Constitution and in international obligations. The level of funding and tasks must also be such that there is no need for ad hoc staff to carry out basic tasks from year to year. The committee stresses in particular the competence and resources of the lower courts, whose quality of work is directly reflected in legal protection and the workload of the appeal courts. Contributions to lower court levels will speed up the overall handling of cases and, in the view of the committee, will bring savings to appeal courts. Mr President! The Courts from the bottom-up have all expressed concern about the lack of funds, the prosecution's office as well, even so that it has informed the public that they are faced with cases to be dealt with as a result of the lack of funds. This is worrying. It's the same with the enforcement agencies. There the number of enforcements is growing rapidly due to the poor economic situation. At the same time, staff will be reduced, things will be delayed and under pressure errors will increase. By the Minister of Justice, the number of courts is drastically reduced. In 2010, district courts were reduced from 51 to 27. Now the reduction proposal is from 27 to 14. At the same time, court rights are reduced from 6 to 4. Mr President! This is a major reduction in courts at national level so quickly that it is quite obvious and clear that, for the whole of our judicial system and for the basic security of our citizens, this rate is now too fast. It would be good if the Minister of Justice were here and could ask him if he has actually had an ex ante assessment — not ex post but ex ante — of how this will in practice affect the implementation of Finnish legal protection. If there is a significant reduction in the number of courts, staff will be reduced and resources will not be sufficiently increased in this proposal, then once again we will be faced with a remark from the European Court of Human Rights that things are moving too slowly and citizens will not be granted legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u110	Madam Speaker! I had to ask for a second floor from my own place when I understood here that Mr Hakkarainen proposed that the death penalty should not be returned to Finland if one cannot then return these people to countries that are using the death penalty. In fact, I was rather shocked by that kind of speech. Although times are tough and difficult and certainly someone thinks that these things are just these throws that can be thrown at, at least I take pretty seriously these things myself. After all, the death penalty in our country or in another country is contrary to our constitution and to the European Convention on Human Rights. I believe that during the peace period in Finland the last person in the 19th century was executed under Russian rule. That such things are discussed here in the most valuable body in Finland. Although terrible crimes are committed, we face challenges with the asylum crisis, we are forced to stick to the Western principles of our civilised state and the Nordic welfare state. I also consider this kind of death penalty to be quite contrary to traditional European and Finnish Christian ethics. And here I would like to say to the Minutes when it comes to the budget of the Ministry of Justice for 2016 that I myself, either as a politician or as a lawyer, am never going to promote the death penalty in Finland or anywhere else. I don't think it's that kind of thing. That goes to our basic values.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u111	Madam President! Inspired by Mr Kurvise, I myself would like to resign from this type of speech at this sitting. Mr Hakkarainen is, of course, responsible for his own speeches, but it seems somewhat scandalous that, at a time like this, we are talking in this Chamber about the introduction of the death penalty, whether it be a crime or a crime, as Mr Kurvin said. We have an effective judicial system and also effective legislation available to the Court of Justice for various offences, from the imposition of criminal measures to bring the criminal in question to the fore. But having this type of speech here at the budget meeting is now more likely to show the representative's own judgment or lack of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u112	Madam President! I share the content of the speeches made by previous representatives 100%. I do not know where such comments sometimes arise, but they are sad and incomprehensible, and I certainly do not want our nation to go in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u113	Section 26 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u114	Mr President! I present the budget report of the Ministry of the Interior's administration. Operating expenditure for the police. About EUR 730 million is proposed for the police’s operational expenditure. This article takes into account, inter alia, an increase of EUR 18 million in the form of an additional allocation for internal security. On the whole, the committee considers it very necessary to increase the appropriations proposed for internal security. The increase in the number of asylum seekers affects needs. In order to minimise the total cost, the committee considers it necessary to have an effective asylum process. At the same time, sufficient resources must also be made available for the other tasks of the police. The committee very much welcomes the government's decision to continue to provide separate funding for the fight against the shadow economy of the police with a budget of EUR 6.4 million in 2016. Investing in the fight against financial crime and the shadow economy is worthwhile for the national economy. The committee adds EUR 300000 to local police activities in order to carry out the tasks resulting from the increase in the number of asylum seekers. It's the security police's operational expenses. The protection police will become their own agency at the beginning of 2016, so it will have a new article. Important changes are taking place very quickly in the sectors covered by the protection police. There is a clear need for more work and more labour in the context of the fight against terrorism. The committee notes that, despite the increase in appropriations, the resources of the protection police are rather scarce. The capacity to combat terrorism and monitor extremist movements must be developed quickly to better respond to threats to Finland. The committee will add EUR 500000 to this item. Operational expenditure of the Border Guard. The activities of the Border Guard are affected by the increase in the number of asylum seekers and the situation in Russia and the Baltic Sea region. As a result, it has been proposed to increase the appropriations, which the committee considers to be good. It is important for Finland to maintain credible and independent controls at both external and internal borders. The Committee welcomes the fact that maritime safety can be improved by, among other things, the purchase of renewable aircraft and a multi-functional public boat. The committee will add EUR 1250000 to the renewal of the navigation and radio system of the Dornier control aircraft. Operating expenditure on migration. All in all, the committee considers it necessary to control the uncontrolled arrival of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u119	Now, Minister Orphan, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u120	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance, its sections and the Committee on Administrative Affairs, which have done some excellent work on the budget. I believe that the end result is reasonable given the general budgetary situation and the new challenges that have surprised us to some extent over the last few months, or quite thoroughly. The starting point was positive because in a situation in which almost all administrative sectors had to be cut in government programme negotiations, 50 million were added to internal security and justice, of which EUR 28.5 million was allocated to the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative sector. But when this immigration to Finland began very strongly during the summer, of course, the situation changed. It affected our security situation, but above all the administrative authorities of the Ministry of the Interior — the Finnish Immigration Service, the police, the protection police, Raja — and brought considerable additional costs. These were answered laudably from the government's side in the supplementary budgets, as mentioned in the presentation, but in the preparation of next year's budget they have also been taken into account in the most realistic way possible. This supplementary draft budget, which added EUR 9 million to the police, EUR 800000 to the protection police and EUR 3 million to the border, was also important. We are grateful to the parliamentary groups and the Committee on Finance for these additions to the protection police, the police and the Rajalle Dornier update. This is very important money in this situation. Our operating environment has changed quite fundamentally. It is therefore noteworthy that we are currently preparing an internal security report which will identify our operating environment, the challenges to internal security – which otherwise come largely from outside – and then evaluate the resources, first a good debate will take place in the preparation, broadly in society and then in the government and in Parliament. The committees are committed and involved, there is a debate on what we want to prioritise, how we see these threats, what we are investing in, because the field of work is quite huge. We have the previous challenges, but we have also come up with these important new challenges. The internal security reporting work will then be seen in 17 years and forward. As far as 16 is concerned, I believe that the situation is reasonably good. Let's start with the police. Our assessment is that the current level of activity can reasonably be maintained. Of course, there is a great deal of employment in the extra tasks resulting from asylum seekers, and work is being done across the board, let us say, even under pressure, but in terms of appropriations, I think that we have been able to respond reasonably to this. The number of policemen threatens to go down after 16 C.E. with the current frameworks. The main reason is, of course, retirement, but this is something that I hope will be given particular attention in this report. In a changed security situation, I believe that the reduction in the number of police officers during the spending limits period by 19 will be too much, but we will return to this calmly in connection with this report and the decisions taken in the coming years. As far as 16 is concerned, this is not yet so acute. I would also like to raise the issue of the appropriations for the grey economy, which have been talking to Parliament throughout the autumn. A good solution was found. The Government's Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy decided that the programme to combat the shadow economy should continue and be made permanent. This latter word may have been overlooked, but I think it is significant, and this must, of course, be taken into account when considering the frameworks and budgets for the coming years. If we look at immigration from a budgetary point of view, the big question is how, now that asylum investigations and decisions are being carried out at a rapid pace, we will succeed in integration, which, of course, goes to the TEM first and foremost. But on the other hand, returns are a big issue that we will face next year. Now it has been resourced, but it is undeniably accompanied by major challenges with which we still have to work hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u121	Then we can start the debat. I'll ask those involved to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u122	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister and to the President of the Section for the presentation of the report. We know very well that security needs to be reflected in the everyday lives of the citizens there, and the Minister described the situation this year, but it is certainly the framework that concerns us all. Hopefully, then, the Internal Security Report will be a solid tool to deal with this situation. However, we are constantly hearing disturbing news that police stations are being shut down and less and less police are being seen in the everyday lives of the citizens. The Minister then raised this number of policemen. Indeed, the time for police courses is over, and with the transition to the Police College of Applied Sciences, police training has changed significantly. I hope that the Minister will also pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u123	Mr President! First of all, we should thank the government and the Minister for the speed and time they have responded to this whole package of immigration by means of various measures. It is positive that the allocation for internal security has now been increased. This year, as the Minister has already said, is going to be a reasonable one, but of course the particularly great challenges will be in the coming years and towards the end of the spending limits period. But then, with this number of police officers, just like Mr Mattila: The number of police officers will fall in a worrying manner in the years to come. The Minister said that we can look at this situation in peace, but we really must remember that police training takes time, and that is why we must be able to react reasonably quickly to this development in the number of police officers — I would venture to estimate that in the course of next year — and I hope that the Minister will take note of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u124	Madam President! The Minister raised the issue of the fight against the shadow economy, and I would like to thank you for continuing this separate funding and for continuing to do so on a permanent basis. This grey economy has been strongly highlighted not only by the government parties but also by the opposition. Thank you, too, for the cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior to launch a strategy to combat environmental crime, and I would like to hear a few more words about the results to be expected. Then there is the question to the Minister. Yesterday, when the opposition argued that an investment of EUR 20 million in the fight against the shadow economy could generate 200 million more profits, is there any truth to be found here when it seems to me that 300 researchers should be involved in this money, and I do not really know where so many scientists can be found?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u125	Mr President! A year ago, the Senate Square had a police demonstration. Hundreds of policemen shouted at the Senate Square, "There are too few of us." The situation will not improve next year either, and, as the Minister said earlier, even in the spending limits period, the number of policemen threatens to fall by up to 900, less than 7,000. I will ask the Minister what action you will take on this issue, especially if and when you say that the money is tight. Should we now consider increasing flexibility in police training? Last season, police training was transferred to polytechnic level. Should this flexibility be increased? In this context, I would also like to take the time to thank the Minister for the fact that the opposition's call for an increase in appropriations to combat the shadow economy has also been taken into account in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u126	Värderade fru talman! There was talk here of a new asylum policy, and there is a flagrant contradiction between objectives and actions. A fixed-term asylum decision in practice means that the matter will be reviewed every six months. Each one of us may wonder for himself how likely it is to paint his house if it can be assumed that it will be dismantled in a week’s time. A family with a child even in day care, one at school, one of the parents may be at work, another in language education: what is the likelihood that they will be motivated to integrate if they know that their situation will be reassessed every six months? There is a terrible contradiction here between objectives and actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u127	Madam Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for spending money on research into the grey economy. But not so much good that something bad isn't. When I looked at those transfers of torque money, the 3.2 million part of the rescue service and the money from that section of the Border Guard had been transferred to similar activities. How do these now affect our internal security and the development of these areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u128	Madam President! The internal security authorities deserve a great deal of gratitude for how this number of asylum seekers has been able to react and cope with this situation with relatively limited resources. But yes, as you said, Minister, there is great concern about the situation in the spending limits period for the rest of this period. Although next year these similar resources are still being used in practice, for example for the police, there will be a time of disaster for the rest of the year if the government does not take new decisions. This is also recognised in this committee's report when it is said that, due to possible changes in the operating environment, this situation in internal security may deteriorate rapidly and dramatically and must be prepared for this too. Now I ask you, Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u129	Madam President! Reception centres have been established across the country in a hurry, neglecting both economic and security aspects. The Procurement Act has not been taken into account in the establishment of new reception centres, since the Finnish Immigration Service has, in this situation as an asylum seeker, had the basis of Article 27 of the Public Procurement Act as a direct acquisition, and this criterion is an extreme urgency due to unforeseen circumstances. It is not possible to see agreements on the basis of business secrets, and this has led to an unprecedented insidious asylum business in which companies are likely to make a huge profit at the expense of taxpayers. Minister, is the Ministry of the Interior going to find out whether the Finnish Immigration Service has concluded overly expensive agreements on urgent grounds of the need for reception centres, even though it has long been known?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u130	Mr President! Often the opposition is seeking to look at the activities of ministers through very critical spectacles. Now, however, I would like to pay a very sincere tribute to Minister Orvo. At a very difficult time, you have handled the exceptionally demanding task of the Minister of the Interior in a very responsible way. When decisions are taken on issues that are important to us all in relation to immigration, including this increased threat of terrorism and other important issues, the common Foreign and Security Policy Committee of the President and Government of the Republic will play a key role. In order for this system to work and for all actions to be consistent, it would seem that the Minister for the Interior should be a member of this committee so that these important matters in the Ministry of the Interior's field of activity can be dealt with and the decision-making process can be evaluated. Is there any discussion on the part of the government about correcting this draining defect and the Minister for the Interior becoming a permanent member of the committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u131	Mr President! The government has really demonstrated its decision-making capacity in this surprising and difficult situation of asylum. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The return of asylum seekers also employs police officers very much at the moment. If and when there will be more and more recipients of negative asylum decisions, the challenge for the authorities will increase. As we know from that supplementary budget, the return of asylum seekers will cost millions of dollars and, in addition, it will really bind the authorities and, for example, the police very strongly. How now, Minister, would you assess this situation and the adequacy of the budget from the point of view of asylum applications and returns, and also of other traditional tasks carried out by the authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u132	Mr President! The government and Minister Orpo have received praise here for the fact that, in this very difficult situation, it has been possible to act consistently and take the necessary measures. For my part, I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that the opposition here at the mouth of Heinäluoma has just said so, because it is very important that, in such an exceptional situation, we have a broad national vision of how this situation which has come to us, as if unexpectedly, can be managed in a sensible way. I believe and hope that there will be a similar willingness to cooperate in other opposition groups. Just what Mr Adlercreutz said earlier: I think it is self-evident, however, that asylum seekers and migrant workers are in different situations, that the asylum seeker is here specifically for the purpose of seeking security, and if that need for security changes, then this temporaryity is justified. Labour immigration is another issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u133	Madam President! Now, as we have said, tens of thousands of these asylum seekers have come here this year. We have also been able to see from police reports and the media that there have been minor disturbances — or even serious ones — in these reception centres and reception centres. It employs the police very much. However, now that these asylum applications are being dealt with and decisions are being taken as quickly as possible, it seems that quite a few will receive a negative asylum decision so that we can talk about up to tens of thousands of returnees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u136	Madam President! As far as the grey economy is concerned, there is a difference of opinion on the amounts. For us, the 20-point programme would generate 200 million for the government. A sum of 20 million would contribute to this, and it is well founded — especially if compared to the 600 million programme signed by the centre of the previous opposition period without any action at all. But I would like to thank the ministers for the fact that this is where the separate programme comes in. Concerns about police officers are that when some 280 police officers retire each year, and when a maximum of 160 students begin training, we will have a big gap for quite a long time. When we know that these security situations in this problematic situation may become more acute and new issues arise, should we be able to quickly do something about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u137	Madam President! It can be said that internal security is a whole. Related police, fire and rescue services, related prosecution services, other judicial services. And it's all coming from the emergency center. There's a call coming in. There's a call coming in to 112. Something's happened. The report by the Committee on Finance states that the resources of the Emergency Response Centre will be very scarce in the future and in the coming spending limits period. There, the committee also requires the government to monitor the operation of the Emergency Response Centre Agency and whether this expenditure is sufficient to cover the expenditure allocated to it. What does the Minister think of this? My second question, Mr President, is this: When this asylum crisis started, it was said that police services would come to these places where reception centres are opened. This has not happened in many, especially smaller, reception centres. What action is the government going to take in future to get some sort of police headquarters to these places where the reception centre is located?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u138	Madam President! I, too, would like to join in the thanks that the Minister has received here. In a difficult situation, you have done a very good job — thank you for that. But the work is just ahead, and we all know that. It is great that the number of authorities has been increased in a short period of time, and the Agency has rightly received praise throughout the EU. But I, too, would ask about these proselytisms and returns that you have strongly raised. At the moment, it is very difficult for Afghanistan and Iraq to return because, in fact, these people do not even receive documents from their own governments or from these embassies, which are close by. In order to be restored, people need these documents. And even though Sweden, for example, has a return agreement with Iraq, it has still been seen that in practice these returns have been very difficult. So I'd ask you, what are we doing with these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u139	Let us take Mr Lindtman and Mr Kanerva and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u140	Mr President! Just for a moment about this fight against the grey economy at first: it seems that here the representatives of the government parties are changing, but the same record is running as far as this alternative budget of the SDP is concerned. But I believe that Mr Paatero clarified this to Mr Kiuru, and if it is not clear, then I believe that Mrs Rantakangas can also clarify it. We really do have a programme and, in fact, the Minister of Justice has just promised that this will be put on the table. But, Mr President, I can agree with the thanks given to Mr Orpo for dealing with this asylum crisis. And now that it seems clear that the fight against terrorism has become so central to our wide-ranging security, I would like to say that if the government comes to the conclusion that it will reassess the composition of the UtVA, then the fact that the Minister for the Interior is sitting there will receive the full support of the Socialist Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u141	Mr President! Today, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs overlap more than a moment ago, for example when the government was formed, anyone could estimate, assume or see.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u144	Then Minister Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u145	Madam President! First of all, thank you very much, thank you very much. And yes, I would also like to agree with what Mr Satonen has said, that it is very important that, in this situation, too, we have been very far in this Chamber without government-opposition limits. It has been very important because this issue of asylum challenges Finland as a whole. Only that we act exemplaryly and decisively will, I believe, create a belief for Finns that this too will be resolved. Then I will quickly try to go over these important questions. First of all, this number of police officers. Although I said that there is a peaceful study, it is still the central element of this report, and it is therefore the work of the next few months. I think that the idea that Parliament is involved in it is very much to be welcomed. Well, then let's see the way. I'll get back to that. In determining the number of police officers, of course, education is everything, and, in fact, today I have a meeting with the police superintendent, the head of the ministry, where we look at this view in terms of the admissions of the Police College of Applied Sciences and also in relation to these future frameworks as to how it can be progressed. Reception centres, security, police visibility: I have not been able to promise that there will be a police headquarters in the localities where the vodkas are located, but we have tried to ensure that the police are present in these localities. Now we are going through this vodka, and it has already been decided to abolish 3 for safety reasons, 27 will be assessed from the safety point of view functionally and economically. In other words, when reception centers were set up in a hurry, they are now being gutted through. If you've made expensive deals, they'll be cancelled. That is one of the reasons why new decisions can be taken. As far as this transparency is concerned, I am confident that the National Audit Office and those who monitor the use of the economy, compliance with legislation, the administrative law will do their job, and I have stressed from the outset in the Ministry that, despite the urgency, these matters must be taken into account as far as possible. Then there is this asylum policy. In fact, it has been an existing practice to check the security situation in its home country a couple of times a year, but now it is just being said out loud and made sure that it is also done. It assesses the security situation in its home country and, if it has changed substantially in a better direction, then takes the case of people from there and in that region individually. If things were to change in a much safer direction in Finland, I would assume that this would be quite a joyous news for many. So I think this is justifiable. If a person is integrated, he has a job, a family, then his residence permit can be assessed on another principle. Then, briefly, to this whole concept of safety. In my opinion, this is an essential part, and we must understand that our security environment has changed radically. Our internal security depends on the external security situation, and that is why it has been important that I have now been regularly present at the meetings of UTUVA — but I do agree that the composition of it should be considered within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u146	All right, and then we're back in the debat. Let us now take the people who have already asked to speak here, but then you too, who are now asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u147	Mr President! There is a situation in our country where the sustainability of internal security is being tested from the point of view of both the citizens and the police, as has been said a great deal. However, the field of police work is increasing due to the increasing number of people. Asylum seekers increase the pressure on police resources and overall coping. This is a serious message coming from the airport. Asylum seekers already present in Päijät-Häme employ the police alongside other obligations and work needs to be prioritised. The Committee on Finance proposes EUR 300000 for local police to carry out the tasks resulting from the increase in the number of asylum seekers, thank you for that. And, Minister, it is great that you are having a discussion with the police chiefs about this police performance. I would have asked: what is your idea, how can the pressure on financial and human resources be dealt with in such a way that the police are able to do their job and the public feel safe?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u148	Madam President! For my part, too, Minister Orpo has done important and good work in a challenging situation. I also think it was significant that we, as Social Democrats, are prepared to support the idea that, in this exceptional situation, you would also be a member of the ministerial working group on foreign and security policy. That would certainly be quite justified. President! Indeed, once again this issue of the grey economy has come up. It relates to many different administrative areas. As has been said, and as has been said here, the social democrats have a comprehensive programme in which several main categories of resources are presented to the police, In addition to customs, the Court of Justice, enforcement and enforcement, legislative measures such as this extension of the tax number. With this responsible programme, we would reject the shadow economy. President! I have to say that I find it very irresponsible to listen here to the comments of the government parties, in which the fight against the black economy has been described as nonsense. I would like to join Mrs Rantakangas, who is now missing, in a separate debate in the centre
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u150	Madam President! One can be pleased to note from next year's budget that the budget includes more than EUR 14 million more money for police activities than it does this year, and that is really necessary in this exceptional situation. Finland’s history does not know such an exceptional situation with regard to immigration as is currently the case. Indeed, we can agree with the same thanks that have been heard here. In this exceptional situation, Minister Orpo and the entire government have acted very well and sought solutions, has accelerated these asylum practices. For example, this programme of measures under paragraph 80 clarifies and speeds up these processes and is absolutely necessary in this exceptional situation. Thank you for that. But I would like to ask you about a detail relating to this asylum business, which has been raised at the moment: what responsibility do these businesses have for guaranteeing the security of their own place of business, such as private security services?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u151	Mr President! The issue of violence against women has recently been laudably discussed here, and it has, of course, been a very big problem for a long time, one of the greatest health risks, a threat that a Finnish woman is facing. The Istanbul Convention has been ratified, but there are still very few measures to be taken specifically in favour of, for example, a network of shelters or others, such as police measures or other measures to prevent violence. Trafficking in human beings is one of the forms of violence against women, and there is perhaps reason to assume that even stronger action is needed at the moment in the fight against trafficking in human beings. However, the national rapporteur is fighting with very small resources and has done a very good job, including coordination, and the human trafficking coordinator so far may not have been able to deliver so much because the resources are limited. What are the plans to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings, specifically with regard to the prevention of violence against women?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u152	Mr President! Finland's state finances cannot withstand the current uncontrolled flow of asylum seekers. All decision-making must take into account the deteriorating state of public finances. When will Finland begin to interpret Dublin in a sensible way, turning asylum seekers into a safe country? Iraq may demand the return of Iraqi twins. Are we going to return these? They're suspected of terrorist murders. Return would be very important because it is also a message that Finland is not the place where terrorists can be safe. The core tasks of the state include internal security. The increase in the number of asylum seekers has increased sexual violence against women and girls, among others. What is the Minister of the Interior going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u153	Mr President! Thank you to the Government and the Minister for my very good work. You have demonstrated the ability to make decisions in this very difficult situation. It is quite likely that the number of asylum seekers will remain high in Finland and Europe. That is why we really need to take care of a lot of things. Internal security and its resources are, of course, essential. It is clear that it makes no sense, for example, to reduce the number of police headquarters in this situation when asylum seekers enter Finland much more than normal for a long time. Indeed, people need to be sure that their needs are noticed, even in those places where there is a long way to go to the centers in times of need. There has been a lot of feedback from citizens that there should be enough police and offices in the future. And thank you for that EUR 50 million increase in security resources. I mean, last season, they cut 'em.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u154	Madam President! It is important that the Committee on Finance now presents additional contributions to the protection police, the police and the Raja. Also noteworthy is this permanence of the grey economy. Over the past six months, we in the Committee on Administrative Affairs have been able to say on several occasions how rapidly changing internal security priorities and resource needs will change, and as Minister Orpo said there, this internal security report is a real order. I would now like to ask the Minister what this revised timetable for internal security is, and also, with a little reference to what Mr Räsänen has just said, what he wishes from Parliament, so that this important and central issue can receive the attention it needs and also deserves in this Chamber. Second, a smaller issue in relation to this asylum situation: When the government's asylum policy action programme was announced last week, the government pointed out that it is also prepared for these negative asylum decisions by setting up such special return centres with minimum service. In public terms, it has been pointed out that two return centres would be set up: one to the south and the other to the north. This would ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u155	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Huhtasaari that the situation is in no way out of control at the moment. And I would also like to express my warm thanks to the government and the Home Secretary, Mr Orpo, for taking decisive and good measures to deal with this situation of asylum seekers. These asylum policy policies, which have been adopted recently by the government, are also excellent, and even at this stage, it is appropriate to challenge all opposition parties to make their own policies so that we can then find together solutions to the way in which this crisis will be dealt with in the future. Many speakers have expressed concerns about internal security, and I share this concern, but above all as a former border officer for the Border Guard. I would like to ask the Minister what measures you intend to take to ensure that the resources of the Border Guard will also be secured in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u156	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for the hard work he has done and for the hard work he has done under political pressure. The police are under great pressure in that field, and sufficient resources must be made available to the police in a situation where this situation of asylum seekers has already increased the workload. It is important that we are also able to guarantee the safety of reception centres across Finland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it has been considered that surveillance cameras should be installed in reception centres in order to increase the safety of asylum seekers and facilitate police work, since we have seen far too many of these terrible, unfortunate and reprehensible bottle strikes. But it must also be borne in mind that security is not only generated by police forces, but also by the general well-being of people and the social climate and the success of integration are very important to ensure internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u157	Mr President! It is perfectly legitimate to demand an alternative from the opposition in matters where it has strongly criticised the government, as in this economic line, for example. That is why we have made this own realistic, fair and courageous option. But then we have said at the same time about this asylum policy that the Finnish policy must be responsible, on the one hand, so that we know that we too have limits on carrying capacity, and on the other hand so that we are responsible for complying with international agreements. After this speech, it is easy to say what has been said earlier. We support this main line of government. That is why I want to say this when we asked for alternatives. The details will then be separate when you produce them. That's what we're going to judge each and every one of them separately. But I will stick to the previous speech where I said that we support the work of Minister Orpo. And it would be good if the Minister of the Interior came to the table of the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u158	Mr President! To begin with, it is easy to agree with the thanks that have been expressed for the work of the Minister for the Interior. It must also be said that it is great to see in this Chamber, mainly, that it has been possible to discuss this issue of asylum pragmatically, and there is quite a lot of evidence here in both the government and the opposition parties that this is something we want to do responsibly, and that is a good thing. I'm sure it's okay to continue this good cooperation in the future. Then the question is, as we know about internal security and other matters, that time largely affects our cost pressures as regards what is happening in the rest of Europe. That is why I would have asked the Minister how you can now see the development that Europe is going to: will this situation be brought under control for Europe? Can we really secure our external borders in the Schengen area, that Mediterranean region? Can we make these registrations work and how can we manage this internal movement within Europe, which is not under control? We know that if this European solution does not come, then every country will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u159	Madam President! This debate shows how security from all sides unites the views of the government and the opposition parties. In many respects, to a large extent, that is a good thing. At least the representatives of Heinäluoma, Lindtman and Kanerva have mentioned the idea of having a Minister of the Interior in the standard composition of SG-UTVA. I agree very strongly with this view, precisely because external and internal security overlaps and overlaps in so many respects today that this complementing of the committee is more than justifiable in this time. Mr President! There is such a sentence in the Government Programme that the Government will take care of internal conditions for external security. This latter also refers to the police, Raja and Customs. I ask you, Minister: at what point is the work of the government going through these internal conditions in such a way that they are in order to ensure our external security?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u160	Mr President! Firstly, I welcome this additional funding. It will enable SM's internal security actors to operate at a satisfactory level next year. Then I am very pleased with the Minister when you have rushed the internal security report. That is where each of us can take a stand on our overall security, of which this internal security is one aspect, and that is where, among other things, the number of policemen themselves can take a stand and then also the responsibility. But, indeed, I too would like to thank the Minister for his excellent work in other areas of organisation centre, centre of return and for making various political policies. I know that the Minister is also an active player in the EU, and I would like to ask now that, after a fair process, the time has come for return and that it will measure the functioning of our society's legal system and the functioning of society: have we now had negotiations with Frontex, for example, on how to organise these returns jointly in due course?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u161	Madam Speaker! In 2010, there were 7,850 police posts in Finland, 7500 in 2013 and 7300 in the current year, and next year there will be money to fill around 7,100 police posts. It's a bad direction, and I'm afraid it's only getting worse. In the Nordic comparison, the human resources of our police officers are significantly weaker than in other countries. And, as has been pointed out in several speeches, the police’s staff deficit cannot be corrected at a turn of events, because it takes about three years to complete a basic police qualification. Even now, even if we were to increase the number of places to start in police training, it would not be three years before the graduates would walk out the door of the school. The police shortage will be reflected in longer investigation periods and a reduction in clearing rates. The level of public order and security will also inevitably fall and the delay in the alarm will be prolonged. It is particularly touching to note in the opinion of the Committee on Administrative Affairs that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy takes the view that the record of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is correct that police safety is expected to deteriorate, especially in sparsely populated areas. I would like to ask the Minister: what can we do with the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u162	I will give five more replies before the Minister replies, and after that we will continue to discuss it. But these five persons are representatives of Savola, Zyskowicz, Kari, Feldt-Ranta and Yanar. — Representative Savola, please. — I'm sure everyone will get the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u163	Madam President! At this difficult time, when asylum seekers have come to Europe and to us in Finland, this mass has also been accompanied by extremists — people who have some connection with terrorism. In Finland, it is estimated that there are 300 of them, but today's news shows that the National Center for Justice has sent a letter to Finland, among other things, which estimates that there are 1700 people in Europe with such connections. Two people have also been arrested in Finland last week, and these are of course serious matters, but this shows that we have the Finnish authorities working well and recognise them. A sense of security is the first thing we need to care about. However, I would like to ask the Minister: How are we prepared for this once and for all, and how are we going to be better able to intervene and find these people? What about the return to the country? Will we be able to return these?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u164	Madam President! I would like to add my thanks to Mr Orpo, and when I also look at my fellow Member — and I am not referring to Mr Heino — I must say that we have had a good Minister of the Interior recently. Mr Orpo will certainly be well advised to take this debate so far and to look at it in weaker moments, and I am pleased to see it. But, Madam President, to the point. When the government decided on these living conditions for family reunification, at least this was criticized by the Greens and the Left. I would like to give my firm support to the government's policy in this regard, too, because it is very important that we do not have national attraction factors, for example in relation to our Nordic neighbours, which lead us to come through Denmark and come through Sweden and come to Finland specifically. In this respect, it is important that the practices in this respect are consistent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u165	And now, Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u166	Madam President! Congressman Mika Kari. — — — — Internal and external security are closely linked, as Mr Kanerva said earlier. There is now an internal security report — from the end of spring, possibly early autumn — on foreign and security policy, and I agree with these statements and with the view that the overall picture of internal and external security in this Republic must be combined as an overall picture, because both sides have an impact on each other. Representatives Heinäluoma, Curly and Mr Kanerva mentioned UTVA, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. I put a written question to the Minister on this as early as June, and you answered it in very polite and elegant terms. I would be happy to hear your views on whether, in this changed time, the role of the Ministry of the Interior should be strengthened as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. And I agree with all these thanks, probably for the tenth time, the Minister. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u167	Mr President! Financial crime and the informal economy continue to cause us EUR 6 billion annually in losses in tax revenue. EUR 6 billion. Against this background, I find it a little unusual that today, but especially yesterday, more Members here have overlooked the opportunities associated with this fight against the black economy. We have listened to experts throughout the autumn's Audit Committee, and the experts have stressed that this whole chain of prevention must be in order for us to succeed. Our alternative is precisely that we are making a reasonable investment of EUR 20 million in the various public authorities and that it will provide us with a moderate estimate of the tax revenue of EUR 200 million. If you look at expert opinions, they will tell you that, for example, the introduction of a tax number has brought us EUR 50 million a year and the translated VAT on construction services is at least EUR 75 million, and with this in mind, the 24-point programme by Lauri Ihalainen will certainly produce at least EUR 200 million. So you might want to push.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u168	And one more reply, Mr Yanar, and then the Minister will answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u169	Madam President! In recent weeks, Minister, there has been an attempt to harm people seeking refuge in Finland. What is the Ministry doing to eradicate racist crimes and violence like these? This is also a major threat to internal security. Mr Adlercreutz has just mentioned that objectives and actions are incompatible with your asylum programme, and I agree. For example, you are creating this second-tier social security system for people who have acquired the right to international protection. Is this good integration to put people on the brink of poverty, knowing that poverty is one of the first causes of exclusion?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u170	And Minister Orphan, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u171	Mr President! I think it is quite a lot to say if there are paragraphs 2 to 3 in paragraph 80 which have been raised here, and in the general debate there is a contradiction between objectives and actions. It is very difficult to do something that is clearly acceptable to everyone, and we can certainly have a debate on these points too and look at their content. For example, this reform of the social security system is currently under review. Let's see what kind of models we can create, and I'll be open to it. Let's see where we end up. President! A huge number of good questions. I'm sorry we don't have time to answer everything. I'll start with the proselytisms. We are having serious negotiations with Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia on cooperation protocols. It is not an easy task, everyone knows the security situation in these countries, but I think it is necessary. These will also work in the European forum, with the European Union working together to find cooperation with these countries. I think that it would be quite proper for both Finland and the EU to take specific measures to improve the security situation in these countries and, possibly, the resources to be allocated to them, in order to improve the conditions for return as well. If there's something out of control about this whole immigration package, it's in Greece. In other words, the uncontrolled situation is at the external borders of the European Union, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to reform and strengthen Frontex. That brings us today to the Commission's proposal, which will certainly start to go through. That is what will actually solve this situation in Europe in the medium term, how the management and registration of the external borders will be successful. Then, in the longer term, the issue will be resolved in the countries of origin and their problems solved. As far as the police are concerned, that is to say that the security situation has changed: the reduction in the number of police officers in the framework is too high, we need to break it down. A report on internal security will be carried out on a timely basis and the Parliament will be committed to it, at least through the work of the committee. Then a good basis will be laid for this report together with the preparation of the security policy and defence policy report. This report will then also resolve the issues of the proper functioning of these internal conditions for external security. The resources of the Border Guard will be considered in this context. All the means by which we can improve security in vodka, in the surroundings of the vodka and between the vodka and the so-called centra Finns, everything is done. It relates to the fact that these reception centres are being examined, where they are, what kind of security arrangements can be made in them, whether modern technology can be used and so on. Then, President, I would like to conclude by saying that, when the expenditure on asylum is an estimate budget, please inform Parliament that this week we are dealing with the Government's Committee on Monetary Affairs, that the expenditure on this reception exceeds the estimated figure of 49 million. In other words, these amounts are large, and they are, therefore, true, they are not questions of opinion. That is why we need an innumerable number of measures to manage this situation. It is not inhumane, because otherwise we cannot afford to help anyone if we cannot control the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u172	And the debut continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u173	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Ministry of the Interior makes exceptional decisions in an exceptional situation. That is why the asylum programme in paragraph 80 is a responsible and sensible decision. It must also be remembered that the primary task of the state is to care for its own citizens and their well-being and security. As a result, different solutions are also made in exceptional situations. But the question itself, there are two questions: Police have been given additional tasks. For example, the East Uusimaa police say that we have hundreds of extra tasks per month due to these asylum seekers and it is out of other tasks. Is it to be expected that they will somehow have more resources if this situation continues? And the second question is this security situation in the vodka. As you mentioned, Minister, you will do everything in your power to ensure that safety is maintained there too, and once it is known that there are disputes between them when they have and there are many of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u174	Mr President! I would like to return to this question as to how this safety decision will be taken. Indeed, time has shown that decisions cannot be taken together in a credible and reliable way on the big issues of our foreign and security policy without also involving the Ministry of the Interior's administration, namely the Border Guard, the police, the police. Because of this threat of terrorism, they have to be at one table. It is important that the President and the government step on the same foot here and that all information is available when decisions are taken. I appreciate the fact that experienced former ministers — Mrs Kääriäinen, Minister of Defence, among others, and Mrs Kanerva, including as former Foreign Minister — support this idea of bringing the Minister of the Interior to the table at the very same stool as the rest of them. And I am going a little further than Mr Viitanen, who pointed out that, temporarily, in this situation. Yes, I would say that experience has shown that there should be a change in regulation so that the Minister for the Interior is permanently responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u175	Madam President! The control of the Schengen external borders must be put in place, but not that the responsibility of sovereign states to control their own borders should be taken over by the EU. And today, when the European Commission is announcing a proposal to set up a new European Border Guard to replace Frontex, I hope that the Finnish Government will very clearly adhere to the position that it is the responsibility of every independent state to control its own borders and that there will not be a procedure in which this border control will then be transferred to the EU even against its own will. It is one thing, then, to develop Frontex and strengthen its operation rather than to go along with what the Commission is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u176	Madam President! We are living in very difficult economic times, which means that the government is forced to take adjustment measures in the sector rather than in the sector. However, even in difficult times, certain basic conditions must be guaranteed: legal security, justice, internal and external security. Here, too, I see that, quite rightly, government groups have now prioritised a particularly demanding situation in which they are still investing in internal and external security and justice. It is now absolutely essential that, when we have to adjust the economy and extra costs arise from these uncontrolled international migrations, then we will be able to minimise the costs for these latter. Here I would like to ask the Minister: however, when the situation continues to live and the numbers vary, what are the conditions for the government to update its efforts on these issues of internal security and asylum seekers if the numbers increase again next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u177	Mr President! Mr Lindtman said that the demars will take a stand on this issue when they get the details. Mr Lindtman, we have an 80-point programme of measures, of which your President, Mrs Rinne, has already said to Yle that, as such, the Social Democrats are prepared to accept it. For years you have been very critical of the Finnish people's line on these issues, and now that the government has a rigorous policy on asylum, you are ready to accept it. Quite a turnaround, which quite a few of your representatives have even criticised in public — that is, you probably have a soup inner birth there. But I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: this programme of measures states that the government is examining the possibility of imposing an entry ban on residents abroad. Minister of the Interior, is this ban in practice a proven ban on the expulsion of those involved in terrorist activities to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u178	Mr President! I do not know whether we have been in the same Chamber when we have listened to Mr Lindtman's previous speeches, but he clearly said that the demars support this big government line, quite clearly. And as for the details that are being brought here — some of them obviously will come here at some point — they will be evaluated after they exist here. For example, with regard to social security, Minister Orpo made it quite clear that he is waiting for the results of this report before deciding his own opinion. That we should go in peace now, and I hope that the government will last a while to support your opposition. It can't be that bad if once a week there was a situation like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u179	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the Interior for that line that has just been heard about how the Internal Security Report will be implemented here. And thank you also for the decision taken by the government to bring forward this report. There is a clear need for this. I would like to ask you, Minister: how are you going to ensure that this is an increasingly interesting place now for the College of Police Services? Now the number of candidates has also been falling and there is a need for it, because we are going to need more and more police officers and this retirement is also one of the key situations in which the number of these police officers will be reduced. Last season, the Ministry of the Interior prepared to halve the number of rescue areas in 11 regions. I would like to ask you: when this was buried, are you going to deal with this now that these self-governing regions will then have this rescue zone?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u180	Mr President! Of course, it must be said to Mrs Elo that we are interested not only in the big line but also in the details. Among other things, when you talk about investment getting to Finland in this programme, say the amount. Is it a hundred thousand or ten thousand or between? But then to the point. Business is also done in reception centres, unfortunately. It seems that the worse the business idea and the worse it gets, the easier the agreement on vodka is made. I would have asked you how and who will conclude these agreements, how to define obligations and responsibilities, because there are also some points in a good agreement on how to deal with a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u181	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister for his very good work in his own field. I would like to ask you about the situation in North Karelia, Minister. There are police stations in Outokumpu and Ilomants closing down, which is particularly difficult for the safety of these municipalities and for the sense of security of people. For example, the municipality of Ilomants, as a border municipality, has been in a situation where we have huge distances, and this already creates difficulties for the police itself. Now, if the station stops, our availability of the police will be significantly reduced. This cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja is then invoked on many occasions: the number of border guards has fallen radically, and the cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja has caused us to have had little support and security in difficult situations for us, but both have now been reduced. If the police station goes, I will ask you, Minister: how will such special circumstances be taken into account in future decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u182	Värderade fru talman! I would also like to join in these laudable positions of the Minister of the Interior and in particular to thank him for his willingness to hold an open debate. As far as asylum seekers who remain here, the amount that remains here, that is about the capacity of Hartwall Arena. That's not a very big problem, no matter what hockey team they're in favour of. The concern has been expressed that these immigrants will be radicalised and then return to the Daesh ranks. Who are at risk of radicalisation? They're coming here alone, underage, they're radicalizing. Now we have a line of action to tighten family reunification. This does not encourage integration and increases the risk of radicalisation. It is very little appropriate from this perspective. It's populism, not pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u183	Mr President! This situation of asylum seekers has certainly taken many of us by surprise, and it is a good thing that this situation has nevertheless been able to be reacted to and properly managed. However, this reception of asylum seekers or this processing of asylum-seekers' processes is not the only thing we have at hand here, but there will be another world after that when these people, who will then be granted a residence permit and who will be granted asylum, will be able to find municipal places, and probably the big cities will play an important role in this reception and integration of these people. I would like to ask Minister Orpo what kind of cooperation and closer cooperation you will have with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior — which will then take care of this aspect of integration — so that this whole, including this extension, can be properly managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u184	Madam President! Integration is certainly a key issue in terms of the benefits or the costs of asylum seekers. The need for shelter does not come as a surprise. I ask the Minister who will be responsible for this integration once this payment period for the state has expired if integration has not been achieved. We in Kerava have around 7 to 8 % of the population of non-Spanish Finns, and when we follow this situation, we can say with concern that unemployment is three times higher among them. The use of different social security contributions is also double, but correspondingly only half of the cash flow comes from Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u185	Madam President! Violence against women is a scourge whose eradication and prevention has completely failed in Finland. Recent suspicions of rape by people from immigrant backgrounds have highlighted this violence, and we must indeed remember that Finns also participate in these acts of violence and rape. What the hell are we gonna do now? Finland leads, we are really at the top of the statistics when we look at these statistics on violence at EU level. In what way can we improve internal security? My second point concerns the absence of a police officer. The police often shine with their absence, and during the week we read about the person who reported child welfare who needed a police patrol, but the patrol was not sent because it was simply not there. It was answered in this way that situations arise in Finland, that tasks need to be prioritised, that not all tasks need a police patrol immediately. What do we do with this? We have three professional teams: police, nurse, fireman. They're absolute. They have to be there at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u186	Let us take a few more comments and then just finish with a five-minute reply from Minister Orpo. But then we move on to the next one at 1 p.m., and these other discussions will then take place later.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u187	Mr President! The Home Secretary said just now that I found a few points in this operational programme. I only have one minute so that, of course, I have only a few things to raise. The government's policies are detrimental to the integration of people, and that is what I am concerned about here. People who have been granted the right to asylum are genuinely being bullied and thus reduced social security for people and the family reunification of people is being tightened up. Which one of us could do without his family? If I had come to Finland without my family — I came to Finland when I was 14 — my integration would have been much more difficult. It's the same with this fixed-term return thing: I came to this country when I was 14 years old, and if I had been told when I was 18 that hey, Ozan, now you're going back, I'd be devastated. I had learned Finnish, and I had been given a job. I was almost going to college. That it is worth considering these actions genuinely to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u188	Mr President! I will continue with this issue of asylum. It is good that the government has also responded to this unprecedented crisis by means of a comprehensive programme of measures that takes into account both the financial burden and the security burden. I am very pleased that the opposition, at least the Social Democrats, has expressed its support for this main line of government and, above all, criticises some of the smaller details. It is now particularly important to make sense and move in a more realistic direction in this policy of ours. My first point concerns the issue of terrorism. That too has now come closer to us with this asylum crisis than before. I would like further clarifications from the Minister on what the government is doing to identify, expel and invalidate terrorists and whether terrorism has been taken into account in the financing of Supo this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u189	Madam President! The Minister noted that, in the context of the Internal Security Report, the number of police officers will be assessed at the level required for internal security. I think that this is a good approach, and this is what it must be done in a changed internal security situation in order to guarantee people's safety, and security is, in most cases, also an emotional issue. But I ask the Minister: would it be logical, in this context, in the context of the Internal Security Report, to decide on the network of police headquarters, because the number of policemen and the network of offices go hand in hand at least to some extent? And the basis of the question is that it would seem that foreign or professional criminal gangs are happy to operate where the police are weak.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u190	Madam President! I share some of the views expressed by Mr Hoskonen and Mr Hongisto, who expressed their concern that the resources of sparsely populated areas have been reduced all the time, and in the previous speech, Mr Eestilä described what it means when the resources are not there. In that sense, this is an attractive alternative for professional criminals, particularly drug trafficking, and their concentration is in those areas where there is cross-border urban traffic. Let us just take the example of my own country, Huittinen, who is at the heart of this and is now about to close down the station. Now that everyone has praised this, I must say that I am disappointed that Mr Orpo, whom I have fully trusted, has not yet solved the whole world and brought crime down, but I do believe in his ability to act. My question is this: is it possible, at the end of the third stage, to look critically at this project, in which areas will now be closed down in this changed security situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u191	Mr President! Terrorism must also be taken very seriously here in our country, because we no longer live in a birdhouse. On the positive side, the protection police will receive half a million more, but we must ask whether this is necessary, because what is known as preventive work is very important. It is also to be welcomed that these asylum decisions would come as soon as possible. It is in the mutual interest of the asylum seeker and the authorities. I would like to ask how many of these so-called voluntary returns have been made so far, and I would also ask about these compulsory returns, because we know that they are very heavy and expensive. And finally: There has been talk here of these vodka activities. There are these private companies that do business. Is there any human dimension that is at least needed, because it is also a great security factor here in the context of the vodka?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u192	Madam President! I would like to draw attention to this huge additional allocation for removal. Mr Orpo, you have suggested in some estimates that two of the three asylum seekers will have a negative decision, and against that, I expect a similar systematic action from you on how to put the return processes into practice in exactly the same way that you have achieved this decision-making process at the outset. We currently have a voluntary return system in place, and if there are more negative decisions in the future, then it is quite natural to assume that there will also be an increase in the number of forced returns. Some speakers have already referred to cooperation with other European countries. I would also like to ask the practice: have you already had discussions with the IOM in order to collect a larger pool and then transports to be more humanely efficient and also more cost-effective?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u193	I will give four more answers at this stage, and they are representatives of Razmyar, Jalonen, Mäkelä Outi and Pakkanen, and then the Minister, 5 minutes, and then we will move on to another topic. We'll continue the conversation tonight, absolutely.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u194	Madam President! It is wonderful that violence against women has been raised in this Chamber. That is something that has been kept quiet for far too long in this society too. But I, too, would once again ask about these returns: If, according to these estimates, about 60% could be returned, that is to say, almost over 20,000 asylum seekers in these figures, how do you manage to do so because we know that these return agreements are currently lacking? Is there a risk that there will be a large number of thousands of undocumented people in Finland in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u195	Mr President! Representative Skinner raised this business around asylum seekers. How would this cost - management around this matter be brought under control? You can put it this way, for example, that when you buy TV in public space, you do not start trading because the biggest thing you can find. And another example of my hometown of Pori: There the citizens have gone out on patrol on the street, and this now responds to the harassment of these young girls and this feeling of insecurity. Could military police be used more widely to fill this gap? Just a little bit more, just a little bit more. The Government Programme includes a record of the reform of the emergency services training. How does it feel now that even these self - rule districts may receive the rescue service for themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u196	Madam President! Security and security are indeed the most important issues that society needs to take care of. And in order to prevent these thanks from collapsing in this part of the House, I share the praises given to the Minister and continue to encourage work on both return agreements and these factors of attraction for our country. But then to this debate on the grey economy. It is an important subject in itself, but it is now stuck in this SDP magic act, which makes EUR 200 million out of 20 million. I would have asked again that if the 20 million were to be put into the investigation, it would not yet produce any money for the state, but would also require resources for the judicial process and the recovery process. I wonder now whether you in the SDP have taken this matter into account in this process, these various stages, recovery and also this judicial process, in how to make the 200 million out of this 20 million that the trick actually succeeds?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u197	Madam President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Orvo for the good care he has given on this whole issue of asylum. Additional efforts directed at the activities of the police — as well as at the Border Guard and the Protection Police — are important in the Ministry's administrative field and I would like to put a question in relation to this property issue: When these properties are assigned to asylum seekers, what about this real - estate business? As Mr Skinner spoke about this in his own question, has it been established that there are no abuses there? At least in my own region, it causes a lot of writing in the press that when leases are made, these are done with fair play. And here in Helsinki, there has been a presentation of possible ice rink rental. If you think it's 40 bucks per asylum seeker, it's probably an interesting business: if you rent an ice rink for 400,000 a day, I'm sure you'll be interested in something like this. Such a little hypothetical question, but on this basis, such a question for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u198	And then Minister Orphan, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u199	Mr President! Thank you for an excellent debate and for your thanks — I am trying to endure. Terrorism. This 1700, which was a list of names given by an organisation: it is now said directly that it is being clarified, but it is not an official exchange of information between organisations, and it apparently referred to the amounts in the whole of Europe, but let us see with the protection police what it is more about. As far as this is concerned, I also say that it is the practice today that whenever a matter is dealt with which concerns internal security in the context of foreign and security policy, I have been there, and I have found it very meaningful and necessary to bring the Ministry of the Interior's administration's point of view on these issues. In particular, immigration is an issue which is, to a large extent, linked to and derived from foreign and security policy. In fact, the only thing that remains of the grey economy — and you know it, of course — is that there are about 550 policemen and women who are doing excellent work in the investigation of economic crime and the investigation of the grey economy. And now that these supplementary decisions have been taken, we will continue with the work done in the last government under the leadership of Minister Urplainen and Minister Rinte, which was probably considered to be a pretty good concept at the time. I think that action can always be developed within the limits of the appropriations that are now in place, and that is what we are doing when we go on. Better means will always be sought, and I believe that it will also be possible to make action more effective and to achieve further better results. Once again, from the Border Guard and from the development of the border, the government is assuming that a sovereign Member State of the European Union has a responsibility for its own borders. But the example of Greece has shown that we must have a lower threshold in a situation where one country neglects its mission and causes significant damage to other Member States, to intervene. So then there must be ways of putting pressure on the country to accept help, as it were, but its sovereignty must be the first. In my view, this is in the interests of Finland, in a situation where we have a country border of 1,300 kilometres in the European Union, and when you do not know the direction of migration, I also think it is important that we too have, or at least we know, the support, if necessary, of European border guards and women, if immigration were to come to Finland to a greater extent. Still with the police. The number of candidates for the Police College of Applied Sciences has indeed been falling, and this is now being clarified as well as how this attraction could be increased. So the police government, together with the police services, has prepared these closures of police stations, and they are now in the consultation process, let us take a look at that situation. But there are certainly those among them who, for example, have made sense for new space solutions when they are no longer modern. But then the second question is these distances, public security and reception centres, which must then be taken into account. As far as terrorism is concerned, the additional resources of the protection police, 800,000, already in the supplementary and now 500,000 proposals from the Finance Committee, are very welcome money, and in percentage terms — when it is known that the budget for the subsidy is about 20 million — it is important. In addition, the renewal of the supo information system was launched. There will now be 3.2 million and an overall investment of 18 million. Very big things are done on that side. Integration is therefore primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. And this ministerial working group on immigration policy, which is largely composed of all the key ministers concerned by immigration policy, has now paid particular attention to the fact that the next step is the integration of people who are entitled to asylum. It shakes our system. New, effective ways and new thinking must be developed, and this is everything. If it is not successful, then, of course, these people are the responsibility of the municipalities in the same way as the native Finn who does not work or who has problems with income. I think it is in itself valuable for NGOs to do security-related things too, but they must be controlled by the authorities. That is what we must strive for. This report is also one element Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that this is a very difficult situation, a very large number. We must be pragmatic but also human at the same time and remember that there is genuine anxiety behind it and identify the people who are in need of real help and bear this in mind when pragmatically dealing with matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u200	The section on the administrative branch of the Ministry of the Interior will be suspended at this stage. We'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u201	The examination of Section 26 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u202	Madam President! The security of our citizens is very important to us. As I have said before, international migration has had a considerable impact on this issue. The increase in local police activity by the committee, precisely because of the increase in the number of asylum seekers, shows the magnitude of the problem. The increase in protection police spending is partly due to the same reason. These are areas in which we will certainly not be wasting our money at this point. The situation of asylum has exploded in the hands and money is currently burning in absurd amounts. There are different views as to whether or not this is under anyone's control. The acceleration of asylum processes still needs to be stepped up with a strong hand. The big problem is that reception centres are being set up against the wishes of residents and municipal decision-makers. I understand that the facilities are on the card — asylum seekers are currently even being accommodated in barracks. However, I see that the sooner the asylum seeker, who receives a negative decision, is removed from the country, the sooner the facilities will be released from the reception centres that already exist, and no new facilities will be needed and money will be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u203	Madam President! As was pointed out in that dinner debate, the Minister of the Interior, Orpo, did receive a great deal of praise for a well-managed job at a very difficult, exceptionally difficult time, which was not well prepared in Finland. I would also like to thank him for the rapid action — and the entire Ministry of the Interior’s administration — that, for example, in Tornio, the organisation centre was made operational very quickly. It is an example, for Europe as a whole, of an institution that should also be on the European external borders, which should have been there years ago. In my opinion, it is still a sign of Finnish agility. During the autumn, the government has adopted immigration policy guidelines, the integration policy action programme and in December the asylum policy guidelines. A total of EUR 0.5 billion will be added to the state budget for asylum seekers, reception centres, integration, internal security, legal aid. And yes, these challenges, which surprised us in the autumn, have, in my opinion, been met by clarification and additional resources, and in that way we have been determined in the spirit of time that we have also been able to respond forcefully to that situation. The government has prepared an additional budget of EUR 50 million per year for the maintenance of internal security and justice, and this is indeed a matter of gratitude. Internal security must be taken care of in such turbulent times, and I am pleased with these additional funds. In its opinion, the Administrative Committee notes that the protection police have had a different operating environment and that there is a need for a variety of efforts, weightings. I am also pleased that the fight against the shadow economy has recovered its money, EUR 6.4 million and that this mechanism is now being made permanent. It's historical. However, the situation of the police continues to raise questions and, as the Minister said during the day, I am sure that this forthcoming Internal Security Report will have to reflect in a somewhat longer perspective on the situation of our police officers in years' time, because at the moment the number of policemen and women is decreasing. And this is certainly not just a matter of resources. Although we are in less human resources than the rest of the Nordic countries, it is also a question of longer reflection on how we can develop and develop education and appeal, especially in the area of police services, because if people are intimidated by fear of insecurity, then the state has failed in its own security mission, unfortunately. I therefore hope that the police service network, for example, will not be put under pressure under these circumstances. Well, in connection with this Internal Security Report: It will certainly also have the opportunity to look at other security authorities and, in a way, at the security threats of a new era, which are often also external security threats. Not only the police issue, but also the state of the Border Guard requires careful consideration. Although next year there will be an increase in funding for the Border Guard, the savings pressure for the spending limits period will be very high, and this will be particularly directed towards a reduction in patrolling in Kainuu, North Karelia and Lapland: from 2007 until 18, up to 40% of patrols will be reduced. This is, of course, a somewhat difficult equation to reconcile with the historical fact that asylum seekers have now come across the eastern border. That we have traditionally had the eastern border, and that is why it would be important to work with the Russian border authorities to find out why our eastern border has now let asylum seekers through.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u204	Madam President! When Mr. Magpie used a metaphor for fools, I'm going to tell you a story here. The old story of fools fits the day. The fools built the house, but they didn't make any windows. First they carried the light in with a bag, it didn't work. Next door's wise Matti told me to make a hole in the wall. The fools did, and there was light. However, they wanted more light and enlarged and enlarged the gap. Eventually, the hole became so big that the house collapsed. There is such an opening in Finland that there have already been a huge number of intruders. Red-green fools want more and more open borders, and there are plenty of people to come. Finland will end up like the house of fools. Finland will collapse if the work of fools is not stopped quickly. In next year's budget under discussion, the cost of intruders to Finnish taxpayers is half a billion euros. The real need is one billion. Former Chief of Staff Erkki Virtanen estimated the amount to be up to EUR 1.5 billion. Nobody asks where this money is taken from. I'll tell you. They are taken from Finnish veterans, pensioners, entrepreneurs, employees, families, all the way to future generations. It's completely wrong. The red-green fools here in Parliament all autumn have been shouting against every decision to save money. They have not made the slightest noise about the extra half a billion euros that are now going to finance the maintenance and benefits of intruders. At least the government has tried to curb immigration, even though the measures have been irresponsiblely slow and cautious. Only because Sweden introduced temporary border controls did the number of arrivals fall from the end of autumn. In the story of the neighbor's brilliant Matti advised fools. Fortunately, we have a wise Matti now. He is Halla-ahon Jussi, who has for years advised Finnish decision-makers to put immigration under control. He hasn't been listened to, and it's going to cost him a lot of money. Unreasonable jumbles cause high costs and congestion for the police, courts and municipalities. And the Finns are suffering. The number of criminals in Finland is unpredictable. Finns are rightly afraid. Now we're done with rape and looting. We must now take action. It'll be too late next spring. Then the influx of those who come will be out of control if we do not take drastic action now. Soon we too will have slums where violence, drugs and terror dominate. Is this what you red-greens want? I don't. We have been chosen to defend the safety and livelihood of Finns. Europe has already lost the battle. Minaret noise will also come to Finland if we do not fight back now. Madam President! We must finally listen to the advice of the wise Jussi Halla-aho. I fully agree with him that Finland must catch up with the invaders. Quick returns shall be activated. The perpetrators must be driven out of the country immediately. Social and other benefits must be put so low that coming to Finland is not attractive. When other countries do not comply with the Schengen Agreement, Finland must declare this agreement null and void and should no longer do so. It's just like the Ribbentrop agreement. They don't matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u205	There were two contributions, Mr Aalto and Mr Kari Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u206	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to ask Mr Hakkarainen who these invaders are. Any Finnish, anyone from any other country can apply for asylum completely legally from anywhere in the world. There are no illegal asylum seekers. And when it comes to the fact that the Finnish population is getting greyer and, above all, what happens to the dependency ratio, when the State Economic Research Centre VATT, among other things, has estimated how much economic impact this amount of immigration will have on the population, then the estimate is very one-stop-shop: people are needed here. Above all, the most important thing is the integration. If a person can be integrated into Finland as a working age, it will produce a lot of euros for Finland and reduce its need for surgery. This is also good for Mr Hakkarainen to acknowledge and know.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u207	Mr Kari Mika and then Mr Hakkarainen will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u208	Madam President! Crime is always reprehensible, in this case it is committed by an immigrant or a Finnish native. With these things we do not have two different practices in this country, nor should we be. However, the fact that a representative of the government party blames the government's own line on immigration issues is quite bizarre at this point. And I also do not like this parliamentary way of speaking that, under the guise of proverbs or old fairy tales, some of the Members of this House, who are just as foolish as Mr Hakkarainen of the Government Party, are being accused of being elected by the people of Hakkarainen. I do not like this way of working in this Chamber, and I hope that, if these kinds of speeches are used, they will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u209	Madam President! I was talking about a silly story. The representatives are certainly all much better than me and more valuable, that is not the point. But then about this integration. Now we are integrating Isis fighters, even those who have been found to have committed 11 murders in that country. We're going to put them here in prisons to live. 79,000 euros will pay for a prison year in Finland, it has been proven. Well, we can get them to integrate in this way. I don't think that makes any sense. I don't know what it is, but that's not going to work for my brain capacity. Then here is the fact that Finland is greying. We have 300,000, up to 500,000 unemployed. Yes, their integration... I've been an employer. In Finnish, it is much easier to direct them to work than to learn, for example, their language or learn our language. Yes, we do, listen, we have manpower and resources from our own backs. We do not need such a different culture, which creates enormous problems. Here again today we read on the cover of the magazines that there is a suspicion of rape, that young children are being harassed. What is this kind of employment? It employs police, prisons, medical care, and surely in the future these depressed patients will be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u210	Madam President! For Mr Hakkarainen, if the fire truck is red, it does not mean that all red cars are fire trucks. In other words, I would like to point out that, even if 1 or 2 or 3 % are guilty of crimes, they must be convicted, no matter where they come from, but because of that few per cent, the whole accusation of 98 per cent, for example, their integration is totally irresponsible. In your speech, Mr Hakkarainen, you spoke of red-green fools. You also referred to some of the representatives. At the same time, all citizens who have used their voices were devalued. I think it is terribly important to give respect to every Member of Parliament, to their work. There may be differences of opinion, but in my opinion it is not a good and valuable parliamentary practice to devalue the citizens. The problem of matching is also such in Finland that even if there are a lot of unemployed people, there are also many job vacancies open, but free jobs and unemployed people do not necessarily meet, because it is quite difficult for an engineer to do the work of a nearby nurse, for example. This is one of the basics of the problem of matching the labour market. We can discuss it, Mr Hakkarainen, even if a little more later.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u211	Mr Meri was first, then Mr Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u212	Madam President! I am not taking a stand on the Hakkarainen story as such, but it is a fact that we currently have this huge amount of immigration and we are in a real challenge with it. I have seen some writings about whether it would be better to have such an immigration policy, that we in Europe can have those things settled in order to take from the camps those whose backgrounds have been examined, as Australia and Canada, for example, do. Then perhaps we would be better able to help the right people and then to provide the answers to the labour-related immigration that is needed here. But there were also questions about this percentage. At least the police have told us that immigrants have now been overrepresented in these sexual harassments. And as I recall, even Professor Terttu Utriainen expressed his concern that this is not the way it is from the wind. Everyone is, of course, considering how to use the word, but Mr Hakkarainen has now had the style that I do not believe he wanted to offend anyone, but he himself will then tell us about it. But these facts are a fact, aren't they?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u213	Congressman Hakkarainen. — All in all, I hope that we will use a language that everyone understands in the same way. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u214	Madam President! I apologise if my dialect is not understood, but I hope it is understood. I'm not a very sensitive person myself, and I apologize if I've offended you. But still for this encounter with the workforce and jobs. If it doesn't work with our own dialect — yes, we understand each other here, we don't need an interpreter here — then how is it if someone comes from there who speaks Swahili or some swazi dialect is able to face that job and comes from the camel's back here and start doing some kind of engineering thing? I don't think that's gonna work. You're already gonna have to use a little Einstein to do it. From the time of these blackmails: Everyone went, even sos.dems, that these are good lines. If these policies had been adopted at the beginning of the previous parliamentary term, then there would have been a racist slump in the neck. That would have been racism. But now that such chaos was born here, there has been a slight relaxation. What's the line? At least we've been straight, it hasn't turned any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u215	Mr. Aalto, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u216	Thank you, Madam President. It is also a pleasure to hear then that Minister Lindström took a slightly different view of the opposition's options. The Greens published 10 effective ways of integration, and Minister Lindström welcomed this with great joy and interest and thanked you very much for it. But I find it rather bizarre that the representative of the government party blames the opposition for not doing enough blackmailing immigration policy. You have the line, you have the power, you have the mandate, you make those choices, you make those decisions. The opposition can criticise them or give them good alternatives, as the Greens have given Minister Lindström. But it is a little strange for a representative of the government party to blame Finland's immigration policy, because you are responsible for the immigration policy, not the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u217	Mr Hakkarainen, and then we will certainly go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u218	Madam President! Thanks for that. — — — — For that integration: I wonder how many employees, how many immigrants have you employed, green people? Because I have experience with that. I can do that. But these things that come from this kind of area... We've had Somalis for 20 years, or 25 years. Eighty to ninety per cent of them are unemployed. It hasn't worked so far. Now that there are many more of them, how do you integrate them there? It's an impossible equation. Then again, when it is said that they are scattered in that sparsely populated area: I'm from there myself, and I know pretty much what's in there. There are bachelors already there. I've already told you, they're about to be sparkled out of every corner of every cane. How do you integrate 85 percent more old people here? It's not gonna work. There's no point in thinking that that kind of game is going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u219	Madam President! I must say that in some way I understand that representative Teuvo Hakkarainen's world of souls, for there are so many contacts from people. Security is a feeling. We have woken up to the fact that a Finnish woman is subjected to violence or rape more often than a Nordic and European woman. We have woken up to that reality now that asylum seekers have done these things. And I find it alarming that we have to experience such acts so that we wake up in Finland to the fact that the Finnish woman has been the victim of violence throughout the ages, decades. We really must do something about this. Mr President! According to the Government Programme, Finland is the safest country in the world to live, try and work. For the Ministry of the Interior’s administrative sector, the proposed increases in appropriations for internal security are necessary in order to achieve this objective. Authorities in key areas of internal security are all responsible for major tasks. The funds of these authorities must be provided for. More broadly, internal security is a cross-administrative area. Mr President! Immigration is talking. The budget now under discussion will have to allocate substantially more resources to the police because of the increase in the number of asylum seekers. In terms of total costs, it is a priority that the asylum process is sufficiently resourced and effective. Regardless of the tasks arising from the increase in the number of asylum seekers, it is essential to maintain an adequate level of security, including for other police tasks. Mr President! Violence against women is a scourge whose eradication and prevention has been completely unsuccessful in Finland. There are those who succumb to acts of violence, as I mentioned earlier, also in the People's Republic of Finland, but with asylum seekers this problem has arisen. Sexual offences against children in Finland are incomprehensible in their series. They come out weekly, unimaginable acts. But especially worrying is the violence that remains in silence and darkness, the victim of which is an elderly woman. According to an international survey coordinated by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, one in four women over 60 years of age living at home have experienced violence in the past year and about 5 per cent of women have experienced sexual harassment or violence. This figure is the highest in the countries studied. In the case of the elderly, violence is typically long-term, even for decades, and very rarely do older women spontaneously report violence in their relationship. An elderly bruise or bruise may be misinterpreted, for example, as a result of a fall, but the truth may be completely different. Open eyes, understanding are needed to determine every possible act of violence. According to a report of the Crime Prevention Council Working Group published in February 2013, information on elderly victims and offences against them is incomplete and difficult to access. Crimes against the elderly and victim experience should be subject to closer monitoring. Social and health authorities should better record information about clients suspected of being subjected to violence. We need national but also grassroots measures in Finland to bring to light the violence faced by older people. Home care, memory and elderly counselling centres and health centres play a major role. This must be supported. Mr President! The absence and absence of a police officer is a problem that we were able to read in the paper last week when a person reported an urgent need for child protection. The police had answered noooo, but they told them that the mission met the criteria for an alarm mission, but there are sometimes situations in Finland that the tasks need to be prioritised and that not all the tasks are sufficient for a police patrol immediately. This is very worrying because, as I said at the beginning, security is a feeling. If we have to be afraid, think and think about it when we need the police to arrive, that the police will not be there, then it may be too late for the police to arrive. So resources for that police force will continue to be needed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u220	Madam President! Indeed, I would like to add my thanks to Mr Orpo, Minister of the Interior, for the good taking over of this asylum situation and for the firmness of his actions along the way. This situation of asylum seekers came as a surprise, but if we compare Finland's activities in this situation with Sweden, for example, it clearly sees this completely different culture of taking over, which we have in Finland. This setting up of an organisation centre, together with other measures, shows the kind of prompt action and taking over of the matter that is now needed — although it has to be said that the work is still in progress. We can also see that from next year's budget proposal, which is under great financial pressure in relation to these reception centres and asylum seekers in general. This is a difficult situation, and I am sure there would be other uses for this money, but this is a matter that must be dealt with as it should be. In any case, this situation of asylum seekers is also very much linked to the resources of the police, the resources of the police. It is a very good thing that we have now decided to spend 50 million on this promotion of internal security in various ways. Nevertheless, I am concerned about the adequacy of police and police activities in sparsely populated areas. In my municipality of residence, Saarijärvi has a reception centre with over 300 asylum seekers, and also smaller municipalities around which there is no police station of their own — we in Saarijärvi still have — are in the process of setting up reception centres. I find it difficult, though, when even under normal circumstances a large proportion of the population in our region is experiencing a certain feeling of insecurity. I think Mr Juvonen has made an extremely good speech just now when he said that security is a feeling. This is particularly highlighted in those sparsely populated areas, where the nearest police may be far away. And especially now that we link this to this situation of asylum seekers, the resources of the police must be taken care of, and I am concerned about how to respond to this new exceptional situation in sparsely populated areas. However, in the longer term, despite this good proposal, we can see, as the Committee on Finance also states in its opinion, that the number of policemen will be reduced. I feel that this is a problem and I hope that, in the longer term, we will be able to respond to it again. After all, we have been talking about this supplementary police system, for example, but I do see that ensuring an adequate number of permanent professionals is the priority that we must have in this spending limits period. The security of citizens consists of many things other than the police, but it is precisely that sense of security and the creation of it that is essential. Quite a few of us need police services, but what is essential is the feeling that they are available as well as other security-related services. Among other things, emergency centre services are absolutely central and I am concerned about adequate resources for emergency centre services. In fact, now that significant reforms have been made in this emergency centre network of ours, we must continue to pay attention to how the emergency centre is being developed and how services are being provided across the country as well. Mr President! Finally, a few words about fire brigades and fire brigades. Freefire municipalities play a very important role in Finnish rescue operations and in the operations of Finnish rescue services. This is an internationally admirable system, and I see that in the future, when self-government is developed and self-government areas go, fire brigades will also be looking at it. I think it is very important that, in future, we continue to retain the functions of the fire brigade and other types of fire brigades in order to further develop this activity and to continue to make use of this in modern rescue and security services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u221	Mr President! Here in Finland, we have two suspected terrorists in custody. Minister Orpo said soon after the news that the arrests are proof of the excellent skills of the Finnish police. That's exactly what I'm talking about. But we must not forget that it is very possible that we already have other cases in the country like these two, and we do not know how many more of them will come. That is why the concerns of the police, including the protection police, — if not even the emergency calls — about insufficient resources and legislation which, as it stands, does not enable the police to play their most important role in preventing crime must be answered. As representatives of the government, we are responsible for national security and it is extremely important to listen to the views and experiences of security experts, professionals. As a Member of Parliament with a police background, I agree with several of my colleagues in saying that we really cannot say that immigration is under control at the moment. Security professionals do not have enough resources and tools to be sure that terrorists are not available in our country at the moment. We know that we have more than 100 people who are linked to terrorist movements. My hometown of Espoo has also gone to Isis to fight people. Mr President! The resources of the police, Border Guard, Rescue and Emergency Response Centre must respond to the changed operating environment and, for example, the reform of intelligence legislation must be carried out as quickly as possible. Even before the flood of asylum, messages have been received about how low-paid officials are starving to death under their workload, and under no circumstances should the situation pose a risk of safety at work, as has already been announced from the police field. A total of EUR 729 million will be allocated to this item. EUR 300000 was added to the activities of the local police to carry out the tasks resulting from the increase in the number of asylum seekers. At the beginning of the year, the contribution will be transferred to its own agency, with a net grant of just under EUR 20 million. The Committee on Finance added EUR 500000 to this item. The Border Guard received just over 3.5 million euros more than this year, a total of 233.41 million. The tasks of the Border Guard include, in addition to asylum seekers, increased tasks in the Russian and Baltic region. According to the Committee's report, the adequacy of the emergency services and the operational expenditure of the Emergency Response Centre is closely monitored. You should be. Some EUR 2.8 million less is proposed for this article than for this year. Amongst other things, the committee raised the issue of the so-called asylum business of private companies that formed around them. In the future, attention will be paid to the procurement process in order to minimise costs and ensure that companies operate in line with the required quality standards. The environmental aspects of the discussions have been forgotten. Mr President! In Espoo, for example, dirty water from the Siikajärvi reception centre had reached the nearby Heinäslampe. The residents have constantly raised problems, but it took a long time for Luona Oy to react. Now the waters there are regularly monitored, but it is not long since a local resident near the reception center told the residents’ association that the local surface water stinks of feces and is cloudy in color. Last weekend, I was informed that Vihti had the same concerns about the environment: there, too, a private entrepreneur brings a lot more residents to the property than the waste water capacity of the property lasts. In Espoo, municipal decision-makers have been provided with three different information sessions from reception centres, two before the Social Affairs and Health Board meeting and once before the City Council meeting, according to my calculations. I find it extraordinary what the culture of silence has to do with the subject: none of these events gave comments or questions to municipal decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u222	Mr President! Congressmans! Representative Juvonen has just raised an important point about our elderly and especially about women. I share this concern. I myself have been a lawyer in guardianship for a long time, and unfortunately there was often a situation in which an elderly person, often a woman, had already been abused by his adult children. These children often had problems with substance abuse or mental health. That is a very serious problem. And now there's been rape and sexual harassment. Yes, we women feel insecure. One night I noticed it myself when I was out, and I was awakened that my lord I too have begun to think about things like this. Insecurity, that is a difficult issue that we should be able to address. I would also like to talk about the autonomy of the municipality and these private reception centres and about the fact that the Finnish Immigration Service no longer consults municipalities about the location of private reception centres in the municipality, even though the municipality has to provide services to residents, such as school and day care services. Hyvinkää, for example, has not been able to set up a reception centre at the city premises. However, in recent years we have taken about 200 quota refugees, and next year we will have 20. Nevertheless, we have now had a private reception centre set up by the Finnish Immigration Service and Luona Oy around mid-November, and can accommodate 300 people. This information came to the municipality a few days before this centre started operating. In that context this Luona The company has also promised all these people housing and jobs, which of course is a rather unusual promise given that approximately 50 to 70 per cent of them will receive a negative asylum decision, and otherwise in this employment situation I do not quite understand how they can make such promises. There are also many minors here, so we have to provide them with school and day care services. In addition, last week it became known that Hyvinkää will actually be here today on 15 December. second reception centre by agreement between the Finnish Immigration Service and Metsästar. A forest star is part of the Bee Group and can accommodate 200 inhabitants. I have no idea who they are at this time of speech about the residents. In other words, 500 people have come to us within about a month and without asking any more questions, and we must provide all the necessary services. Of course, this problem of insecurity has also occurred in Hyvinkää, at least in Facebook groups people have been very inquiring, and there have been concerns, and there have been some mothers in contact with me, that there has been some sort of follow-up, and that has been the concern of minors. But that's all I can say about them. In addition, we now have an unclear situation, on which our local newspaper also called me today and asked if I had any more information. We have this kind of Rantasipi hotel clearing out at the turn of the year, and there have now been thoughts and rumours that there might also be a reception center between a private operator and the Finnish Immigration Service, and we have been a little worried about it when there could be about 800 people. It would certainly be the largest and biggest reception centre in Finland, and of course it worries about the possible arrival of such a reception centre: safety and all these distractions and, of course, this service structure again. If this happens, then in a few months we have had 1,300 asylum seekers in Hyvinkää without any influence on us, and the municipality is now trying to influence the Finnish Immigration Service by not getting any more, when we have these quota refugees, which we have wanted to take part in and which the local authorities have not taken in much in recent years. That it is easy for this municipality to have no influence on this, and I therefore believe that the Ministry should now give instructions to the Finnish Immigration Service that, in any event, the municipality retains sufficient autonomy and influence over the number of private reception centres and asylum seekers to be set up in the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u223	Mr President! In its opinion on the budget, the Committee on Legal Affairs stated this: 'Since the fight against financial crime and the shadow economy is also a matter for the government of the Ministry of Justice, it is important that the resources needed for this purpose by actors in other administrative sectors, such as the police, are also taken care of'. It is very good that this proposal also increases police resources in the fight against the shadow economy. The European Community Fraud Unit has a budget of about EUR 50 million, but their annual revenue is EUR 450 million, which is almost ten times the amount invested. This is something that must also be developed in Finland. Secondly, I would like to raise the cost of the protection police. The Committee on Finance notes that, despite the increase in appropriations, even without a changed environment, the resources of the protection police are relatively scarce, and stresses that the capacity of the protection police to combat terrorism and monitor extremist movements must be developed rapidly to better respond to threats to Finland. The development of the fight against terrorism requires urgent measures to detect and prevent threats. Similarly, the availability and timeliness of the necessary threat assessments should be ensured, as should the timeliness of the legislation. The protection police themselves have said that they currently have several hundred people to follow 24/7, but the resources have remained almost the same. I hope that this issue will be closely followed up and will come back to this in the draft amending budget, if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u224	Mr President! The government is famous for its cutting lines, and the government's cutter also applies to the number of policemen. Reducing the number of police officers threatens access to basic police services, especially in sparsely populated areas. At the end of October, the Eastern Finland Police Department announced that five police stations in its area of operation are under threat of closure. This has a major impact on the capacity of the police in the third largest area of activity in Finland. Finland is known to be a country of long distances. Has the government carried out an impact assessment of how the weakening of the network of police stations affects people’s everyday lives? All people, regardless of their place of residence, must be able to obtain police assistance easily and quickly. Electronic services do not help a person who is in need and needs urgent help. Furthermore, the closure of police stations will not solve the police shortage, which urgently needs to be addressed. In addition to the general security situation, reducing the number of police officers in field work also reduces the safety of police officers at work. Mr President! Recently, the police have also faced new challenges, as racist violence, and especially online hate speech, have spread at a worrying pace. How can the police respond to these truly worrying phenomena of human security? This is a very dangerous crime. For example, attacks on reception centres have the ingredients for very serious crimes requiring human life: in October in Ylivieska, the Christian College, which accommodates underage asylum seekers, was hit by a bottle of fire, in Siilinjärvi, the front door of the emergency accommodation for asylum seekers at the Story Hospital, was thrown into a smoke grenade and in November there was an attempt to strike a bottle at the Heikinharju reception centre in Oulu. Here are just a few examples of crimes committed during the autumn against reception centres in Finland. It is often said that these crimes are isolated cases. However, we know that Sweden, for example, has had numerous attacks on reception centres during the autumn. According to the police, it is still early to assess the systematic nature of the crimes. It is clear that the police need more resources to investigate crimes and strengthen the safety of reception centres. We must also seriously consider how the police, with their diminishing resources, can address the threats that politicians and other influences are facing in their everyday lives. Words can be a frighteningly short journey to action. Mr President! The Left Alliance has repeatedly wondered about the government’s unwillingness to combat the informal economy. We know that intervention in the black economy costs itself many times back. The effective fight against the shadow economy reduces debt and increases economic policy margins more effectively than short-sighted cutting policies. One financial investigator will pay about 60,000 euros a year, but his work will bring back about 110,000 euros. In 2014, the central government's investment of EUR 20 million produced EUR 47.7 million in the take-over of criminal and tax benefits. It is a good thing that the government finally gave in to the demand of the left and other opposition groups to reinstate the appropriations required to investigate the shadow economy. However, money is not enough if we really want to tackle the problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u225	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of the Interior’s budget for 2016 is under discussion, the Ministry of the Interior’s section, and I will now be the first to draw attention to this whole package of fire and rescue services and Emergency Response Centres. The fire and rescue services will be transferred when we have a major regional government reform and create self-governing provinces in Finland, to be managed by this new administration, as part of this new intermediate administration, which I think is all right in the sense that emergency care in particular is in the majority of the country being handled by the emergency services, and it would seem a little unnatural that it would be different as a whole than other health care. First response activities are also very important in the operation of the rescue services. Some money, approximately 2.8 million, will be deducted from the fire and rescue service compared to this year. However, my main concern during this spending limits period is the development of our voluntary fire brigades and semi-permanent fire brigades. In most parts of Finland, fire and rescue services have been organised on the basis of voluntary and side-by-side firefighters, and if we find ourselves in a situation where, for some reason, we no longer have sufficiently capable and motivated volunteers on the rescue side, then we will find ourselves in a situation where the safety of our citizens is radically reduced. Anyone can imagine the huge cost to public finances if they suddenly had to hire professional firefighters to replace these many volunteers. I therefore call for us to be able to do everything possible to support this voluntary fire brigade and voluntary fire brigade activity. Mr President! My concern regarding the fire and rescue services also applies to the continuation of the Emergency Response Centre. The Committee on Finance has stated in its own report that the funding of the Emergency Response Centre is very limited and that the government should monitor how these resources will be sufficient in the coming years. We all need to understand that when we talk about internal security, it is a police operation or a fire and rescue operation, all the activities will start from that emergency centre. There will be an assessment of the size of the emergency, of the type of unit that will be present, or of an alarmed elderly person who just needs to be consulted. Very demanding phase, this emergency center phase. Mr President! Just a few words about the police department. I am very pleased that the government withdrew its reduction in the fight against the shadow economy. It's important work. I also welcome the fact that an additional EUR 300000 was allocated to the local police. There is now some concern about the internal activities of the Ministry of the Interior. I have been informed that in the future there will be performances within the police administration, that some small police stations will be apprehended because of a very small amount of savings. I think it is quite the wrong signal in this time, when, as has been said here in a number of speeches, insecurity among the citizens is only increasing. All in all, Parliament, I find very worrying developments in which people feel that there is no longer any help from the authorities. Let’s see that now we have to start putting some of our own street patrols and crowds in the church villages and cities. The right of one's own hand is extremely dangerous, lynching is extremely dangerous, and that phenomenon must not be allowed to happen. Cops must also be seen on the street in rural areas and in northern Finland. Mr President! We cannot be here without saying a few words about immigration policy and the situation of asylum seekers. Even in my own town, Kauhava has now served as a reception centre for a few months, and, fortunately, major problems have been avoided so far, and we hope that we will continue to manage. The asylum seeker crisis has put pressure on more than one branch of the Ministry of the Interior, both the Border Guard, the police and the Finnish Immigration Service. I think it is very important that, now that we begin to hear and question these people, whether they really need help or not, these consultations should be carried out in reception centres and not by train or bus to Helsinki for hearings. That is how it works at the moment, and it is a waste of public money, and that is bureaucracy. I also attach great importance to the fact that we will then manage this phase of return well enough. However, when there are people who do not come to asylum, there may be a rather large number of them, I think it is good practice for us to open up these return centres, where they would then be accommodated under controlled conditions and this process would be carried through in a controlled and controlled manner. Mr President! To conclude, perhaps I should like to say a word about this entry debate and the immigration debate and the debate on racism, the debate on security that has taken place in this Chamber. I was kind of woken up this week by the Evening Magazine article, where immigrants who have lived in Finland for years told me that their children have been called names at school and they have been told that you should leave Finland even though they were born in Finland. It did touch me in some way. In Finland, we need anti-racism work, two-way anti-racism work: in relation to racism, which is the racism of the native population towards immigrants, but also in relation to this phenomenon, which many representatives have spoken about here, that immigrants do not respect our customs. This racism, too, must be eradicated. Immigrants must understand that we Finns are individuals and we have a long-standing good culture and an advanced social system and legal order here. Unfortunately, there is also racism among immigrants. As a result, Mr President, there is a great deal of humanity in this asylum-seekers crisis. I know that many citizens are criticising why additional efforts have been made to deal with this crisis. I've been answering everyone's questions, and I'm going to say, It's a good thing we can handle the situation in a controlled manner. If these people had not been brought to these reception centres, if the returns are not handled smartly, this will get out of hand, and so far at least the authorities have done well. I would also like to end by thanking the Minister for the Interior, Mr Petteri Orpo, for his timely response to the situation in this surprising situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u226	Mr President! The Administrative Committee gave a critical assessment of the ratio between resources needed by the Ministry of the Interior and appropriations. There is a situation in our country where the sustainability of internal security is being tested, not only from the point of view of the citizens, but also from the point of view of the police. The field of police work is expanding due to the diminishing number of people. Uncontrollable immigration also increases the pressure on resources and on overall survival. The number of police officers is falling due to the scarcity of funding and training. In addition, it may be expected that the police will resign if there is no maintenance at work and there is constant uncertainty about the continuity of their own work when police offices are threatened with closure. The cops want to do their job well. They are concerned about citizens' sense of security. There is also concern about the safety of police patrols. Unfortunately, this has come up in reception centres for asylum seekers, among others. In Päijät-Häme, the police are overworked in reception centres. The maintenance tasks they carry out are always out of other alerts or traffic control. The Committee on Finance proposes EUR 300000 for local police to carry out the tasks of increasing numbers of asylum seekers. This article also takes into account an additional allocation of EUR 18 million for internal security. The Committee considered it very necessary to increase the appropriations proposed for internal security and stated that the authorities should have realistic opportunities to carry out the tasks assigned to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u227	Mr President! In Finland, it has traditionally been possible to rely on the police to arrive quickly and reliably if necessary. In a time of need, no one wants to ask whether the police have enough resources to carry out their task. It is worrying that, during the spending limits period, the number of policemen threatens to decrease by as much as 7,000. The reduction in the number of police officers is a poison to the everyday safety of citizens and also to the safety of the police themselves. It is estimated that the police will retire in about 280 years. In its proposal, the Government has halved the number of starting places for police training from the current year level to 160 starting places for 2016. The number of 160 starting places and the corresponding funding will not even be sufficient to cover the retirement. As a result, the number of policemen threatens to fall by nearly a thousand. With this number of police officers, it is not possible to maintain the current level of internal security. The number of police officers in Finland is already at a very low level today, when the number of police officers is compared between European analogue countries. The challenges in the police field have not been reduced, rather the opposite. Exceptional situations, such as the current marked increase in the number of asylum seekers, will also further increase the diversity of police tasks. The SDP proposes to cancel the reduction in the number of places for starting police training, as the reduction in the number of police trainees is a real threat to the statutory tasks of the police. The police must look like a Finnish person in everyday life. They shall be provided with sufficient resources to carry out their tasks with the necessary precision and expertise. In order to maintain the number of police officers at the current level, some 300 new trained police officers should be completed each year. The decline in the number of places to start police training is an unsustainable trend, while at the same time the tasks of the police are increasing and becoming even more complex.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u228	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, there has been quite a lot of debate on immigration, asylum seekers, in the section of the Ministry of the Interior, and I wanted to make a few comments on this matter with the actual speech. In my opinion, it is perfectly understandable and for every reason, for example, that the Finns have expressed strong concerns about the large number of asylum seekers, but one could imagine that the Finns themselves would do their utmost, among other things, to prevent climate change and increase development funding. True, the True Finns say that people should be helped in their own countries, but unfortunately — I hope you will understand — this policy of yours represents a line that drives people away from their own countries when the conditions for people’s lives disappear from their countries of origin. If, now, the Finns of Peru think that immigration is out of control, you can be quite sure that climate refugees will change the situation so that the current situation is only a fraction of the international migrations of the future. The State Economic Research Centre VATT estimates that a successful integration policy will improve the well-being of both immigrants and Finns. It is precisely in this context that we must focus on this good integration. I was extremely warm when Minister of Labour Jari Lindström thanked the Greens for the rapid integration programme. He accepted it with an open mind, not saying anything about red - green foolishness, but accepted it and said that he was familiar with it. Thank you for that. And the main point of this programme is precisely that illegal asylum seekers do not even exist on earth, everyone has the right to apply for that asylum. Either you admit it or you don't. But that application, that process, needs to be processed as quickly as possible. It is in the interests of the taxpayer, it is in the interests of Finnish society and also of the asylum seeker. And when this person is at the reception center, his skills should always be able to evaluate. Nothing is as frustrating as being away for months and not really knowing anything about your family and not being able to take advantage of what it is. We have a huge number of people of working age, including highly educated people, coming to Finland, and their work should be made available as quickly as possible. Five key steps towards this good integration, serving both Finland’s national interests and the well-being and benefit of asylum seekers, immigrants: Always the first thing is home. Everyone who comes deserves a home, a place to settle down and start building a new life. Without that home, there's no integration. The second point is the language. Learning Finnish languages is the key to everyday life, working and creating relationships. Adequate provision of Finnish or Swedish skills for all immigrants is both in their interests and in the interests of Finnish society as a whole. Thirdly, education. You cannot survive in Finland without education. Education enables employment, helps integration and prevents exclusion. The fourth thing is work. It is true, as many representatives in this Chamber have said, that the employment rate of immigrants is lower than that of the entire population. But the longer you stay on the ground, the higher it gets. This was pointed out, among other things, by the VATTI study, which has tens of years of analysis in the background. You don't have to talk about mutating, you don't have to refer to the guy's son who works at the border. You can also take advantage of the researched data. And the last thing is the connection with the local people. The community always builds that home. Random encounters, friendships and working together support settling in Finland. Here, among other things, the third sector, hobbies, different forms of joint action support the connections through which everyone can build its own sphere of life. If we really want to help both the economy and the people who come to Finland, we will say welcome to them and we will do everything in our power to integrate them so that they can help this Finnish ship and themselves together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u229	Mr President! The climate change mentioned by Aalto — yes, we Finns here get to whip ourselves like Sunni Muslims, and nothing happens except the trail: our own industry and livelihoods suffer from it. Then about integration and this sort of thing we have Malta as an example. They put these lonely men in containers, and families are just placed there. How much have we got? 116 asylum seekers. There are those who really need that sanctuary, and tourism is turning away. Of course they would be there when it is a safe country in the Mediterranean. They wouldn't be here in the North if they had the same means they had. As far as integration is concerned, I would say that repatriation is the best remedy for that. And for the employment of immigrants: Look a little over there at those Thais. When they get here, they'll be right in the berry forest. There are no Somalis, no Iraqis, no Syrians. It's something that tells me.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u230	There's only one thing I'm dealing with. If a man comes to do a month, two months, three months job as planned, it's a completely different thing to do if a home is destroyed around and goes somewhere in the middle of the war to get security, so that he doesn't face the choice of a black patrol: either you come with me in the ranks of Isis or you die at your door. If an opportunity is offered to search through the continents for a safe place to be brought later along with the family, it cannot be compared to a month, two months, three months’ work that has been agreed and planned in advance. At this point I would avoid stigmatizing all people, avoiding comparing different groups of people. And once again: we have a huge amount of researched information, it is better than lost knowledge and mutation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u231	Replying speeches by Mr Kurvinen and then by Mr Hakkarainen, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u232	Mr. Speaker! I think Mr. Hakkarainen is on the right track right now. I do not know whether we all got through that message, but I do agree quite well with him that it is precisely these hot spots that should be set up around the Mediterranean and then, as Mr Hakkarainen said, we would see who comes to Europe, and indeed we should offer asylum, above all to women and children. Surely it would be appropriate to allocate our national money and, in particular, the European Union's money to make this work. It is strange, of course, that the Greek State, which has been facing this problem for a long time now, has not made this facility work so that they will now come to Tornio to look at the situation. The work also integrates, and I also agree with Mr Hakkarainen on this. We've got it. With the bucket, these asylum seekers make falafel and there the washing machine runs a small laundry, and it does keep the crowd calm, boosts self-esteem. Work is the best integration for both asylum seekers and other immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u233	One last response to Mr Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u234	Mr President! I, the representative of Aalto, say that the Isis men and others are there to frighten these men: there was news in the evening Sanomat, whether it was last week that women took up arms against Isis, a big headline. How do these men get here and put women on the front? In Finland, when there was war, the men went to the front, the women were on the home front, the children went to Sweden for safety. This is exactly the opposite of what we are doing. Women go there to war in Iraq, men come here to the North, and children are used in the front line there, taken as a shield when you come to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u235	Still representative Aalto, then definitely this debut will end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u236	Mr President! Throughout history, the same pattern has been repeated. When the conditions for living disappear from one’s own area of life, the strongest go out looking for the new continent where they can settle down and later seek to bring the family to them. At the moment I have read a lot of stories, talked in reception centres with people, I have also done a lot of international research literature and also talked to peacekeepers, and the same message is repeated. These death squads in many In the ISIS regions, they go from door to door, they collect those young men, and many young women even try and get young men of this age out of their homes so that they do not get into these ranks. Certainly it is that many may take up arms as a last resort, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u237	Mr President! The most uncertain part of the budget is specifically related to the assessment of the costs of the migration crisis and the number of asylum seekers. These budget figures are based on 15 000 new asylum seekers as far as immigration is concerned, but unfortunately there are numerous and major uncertainties about this assessment. At least this year's number of asylum seekers is quite moderate. As far as cost estimates are concerned, we are talking about a series of hundreds of millions of euros and, at the same time, the need for additional debt if asylum seekers come to our country much more than they have been estimated. In addition, the costs are affected, inter alia, by the speed of processing applications for asylum and the percentage of return for those who have received a negative decision. Fortunately, in order to get the situation under control, the government has decided to take measures to reduce attraction factors, speed up processing times and effectively restore applicants who have received a negative decision. These are examples of the 80th asylum policy programme announced last week by the government, for which I thank the government. And, as the report of the Committee on Finance has also said, it is perhaps possible to curb the number of people who have applied for asylum by increasing information to the target group on the conditions in our country and on the conditions for obtaining asylum. Mr President! The updated strategy for combating terrorism, mentioned in the draft budget for next year, will continue to fight violent extremism. Violent crime is also being combated, one of the priorities being serious violent crime. These are very important measures, especially at a time when the feeling of Finnish security has suffered a severe blow, just as Mr Juvonen said earlier. Undeniably, the investments
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u238	Mr President! These established refugee centres talk a lot. They do not work in a manner that has been appropriate. Fortunately, they are now being re-examined. I receive messages every day about cases where male residents in reception centres have behaved in a threatening manner towards the native population, especially women and children. There's screaming, whistling, even squeezing. There have also been some cases of abuse. I am also following a reception center nearby, and a message from it says that the police and even the rescue services visit the scene almost daily. A police patrol has had to use gas and a rubber club to protect its own safety. These reception centres must be subject to stricter codes of conduct and, if necessary, even curfews for asylum seekers. It must be made clear that the rules must be complied with and that an infringement can stop the asylum process and that this will put things in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u239	Mr President! In the previous speech, I raised the issue of acts of violence against older people and thank all those who listened to and commented on it. I would also like to raise the issue of property offences on this other side. The statistics of the Police College of Applied Sciences for 2014 were rather harsh. According to them, thefts and gross thefts had increased by one fifth over the last five years, and it would be interesting to follow in the future the direction in which these crime statistics are beginning to go. People over the age of 65 are at great risk of being the victim of a property crime. It is usually a wallet, handbag or money fraud or bank or credit card theft, and not only for the elderly but also for the disabled. A couple of years ago in Espoo, we had a situation where a disabled person's accounts were stolen with a debit card, and even though there was a surveillance camera image, the police were never able to catch this person and these people then lost their money. There are problems with the legal protection of the elderly and disabled: making criminal reports and initiating the investigation process is challenging and issuing witness statements — well, that is, of course, the answer. I put a written question on the subject during the previous period, and these will be done via the Internet, but it has been said here today that not all elderly people are there online and should not be there. Our society can't go to being all Internet addicts. There are billboards in the Internal Security Programme relating to safe life also when older, and it should also be commended to the government, but will continue to look at this. At least here in Parliament, when I work, I will see this as one of the top themes. The good, safe life of the elderly and the fact that they are allowed to live safely are very important, and we owe it to our elderly too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u240	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of the Interior under discussion is an extremely important section today. I think we all agree that this is more important than internal security at the moment in this country and in this Chamber. First of all, I remember when Colonel Martti Kukkonen, former commander of the North Karelia Border Guard when he was in office, began to speak in my own country, North Karelia, often saying that the border is peaceful. Many times I was left to think about the words they meant, but it came out pretty quickly from Colonel Kukkonen’s speech that “at the border calm” means that we are safe to live in North Karelia, and the same, of course, in the whole border guard area of Finland. That is why the Border Guard receives a small increase in the budget so that it is able to carry out its tasks at the Finnish external borders so safely that it is really peaceful at the borders in this country. The fact that the police, Customs and Raja are cooperating in this country is extremely important, and even if small increases in appropriations are to be made, they will be very much needed, and we must also prepare for the fact that, if necessary, additional budgets can be used to allocate additional appropriations, depending on the situation at the borders. We must remember that one important sign of an independent state is that it is able to control its borders on land, at sea and in the air. This section of the Border Guard is part of this monitoring of land and sea borders. That is why it is important for the borders to be peaceful and to have more money to be made available, with sufficient crew and, above all, good equipment. Of course, the increases in appropriations that have been made in this report by the Committee on Budgets are limited but, as I said, they will be very much needed, and there must always be an opportunity for additional budgets. Secondly, Mr President, this small additional budget for a police action, EUR 300000, and, as the Committee on Finance says in its own report, the authorities must have sufficient resources and the means to carry out the tasks assigned to them adequately. As we know, the tasks of the police today are very diverse, and there have been many references in this debate to the disruptions caused by asylum seekers. We Finns know how to interfere, not on that side. Whether that is the case or not, the police must be able to provide security services throughout this country on an equal footing. In my municipality of Ilomants, as well as in the other town of North Karelia in Outokumpu, the police station is being shut down. Of these, I would like the Ministry of the Interior to consider among itself because it is a purely local security issue. If the police station disappears, it is obvious that the availability of police services will be reduced and it will affect people's sense of security, and that is wrong. In this country, police action is required everywhere. I hope that this will also be understood during this Parliament when it comes to future budgets. When an internal security report is shortly to be made in this house, special attention must be paid to these matters that we are able to guarantee security throughout this country at a good level. I do not think there should be any compromises on this. Mr President! As far as intelligence is concerned, we have a need on the Defence Forces' side and also on the Border Guard's side to deal with intelligence in such a way that we can prepare ourselves for threats from outside in good advance. Attacks through the networks in the future: As Mr Jyrki the plant in this very Chamber today said in one of its speeches, the threat that comes from there may even be a greater threat than the physical threat to our borders. That is why it is important that these laws, which concern intelligence on information networks, also need to be put in place in this house so that our Border Guard officials, customs officials, police officers and the Defence Forces have the necessary capacity to carry out their duties and to carry out their enquiries in advance. The protection police will start in the coming year as their own agency and receive EUR 500000 tomorrow’s gift to carry out their duties, and the legislation on this online intelligence must be put in place for the tasks of the protection police. Without well-functioning online intelligence in today's world, you can't handle it. We must remember that the major powers and all the countries of Europe are investing large sums of money in these matters and will therefore be informed in advance of future threats. If this online intelligence does not work, then other intelligence, securing borders and general order in the country will be at a slightly weaker level. I hope that Parliament will be unanimous in future legislative projects on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u241	Mr President! Let's be brief. It should be noted that, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, attention will be paid to this grey-fiscal crime and there will be funding for it. It is important that this fight against the shadow economy continues and remembers that during the last parliamentary term the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities took various measures to combat the shadow economy. All this is good. That there should be such cross-administrative activities, and the work of the authorities between different administrative branches should be seamless. Similarly, in the fight against terrorism, the protection police will receive this EUR 0.5 million, and it is very important that these terrorist threats can be taken into account earlier — that this so-called preventive work is of course better, but it is difficult to address it. Then, thirdly, I would like to address the reception centres. These reception centres have been set up by private companies in particular on too fast a timetable. I know that in my own municipality there are 5% asylum seekers and there has been no interpreter, no identity, no trained staff. There should be psychologists, because there are asylum seekers in our municipality, at least for those who are fleeing the real threat there, this asylum is being granted. That there are a lot of people there, we have Afghanistan, Iraq and then Somalia. There's gonna be fights between these guys because you know that when you're from a lot of countries, [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : I ask you to move to the (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u244	Mr President! The increase in the number of asylum seekers also increases the tasks of the Border Guard. The challenges are also brought about by the EU's external borders of 1,300 km with Russia and the general situation in Russia and the Baltic Sea region. The Committee therefore stressed the importance of maintaining credible and independent control at both external and internal borders. It should be noted that patrols have already been reduced by nearly one third at the eastern border during the previous two parliamentary term. Currently, Border Guard personnel have been scaled only in accordance with the necessary basic controls. However, the Border Guard has stepped up border controls at internal borders, together with other authorities. Thanks to the staff for stretching. Mr President! The committee welcomed the proposal to increase the budget for the Border Guard due to changes in the operating environment. This is easy to agree with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u245	Mr President! About EUR 730 million is proposed for the police’s operational expenditure. This total has been taken into account as an increase of EUR 18 million as an additional allocation for internal security. I consider it very necessary to increase the appropriations proposed for internal security. The increase in the number of asylum seekers will have an impact on the needs and the number of asylum seekers coming into the country will not be fully known for next year. The rapid asylum process and also the reduction of Finland's attractiveness must be considered an important factor in minimising the total costs. At the same time, the other tasks of the police must also be properly taken into account and resourced. Hopefully, EUR 300000, which will be allocated to local police activities in the management of the tasks resulting from the increase in asylum seekers, will also come to Eastern Finland, where there are already four reception centres. I think it is very important that the government decides to continue to provide separate funding for the fight against the shadow economy of the police with a budget of EUR 6.4 million in 2016. This funding will bring many times the money invested in it back. Investing in the fight against financial crime and the shadow economy is very profitable for the national economy. It must also be borne in mind that the grey economy also runs on rubber wheels, so adequate funding and resources for traffic control must be secured. The protection police will be transferred to their own office at the beginning of 2016, but despite the increase in appropriations, the resources of the protection police are relatively scarce. There is a clear need for more work and more labour in the context of the fight against terrorism. I therefore believe it is important that this EUR 500000 be added to the protection police in addition to the previous one. The number of asylum seekers this year, as well as the situation in Russia and the Baltic Sea region, may have been most affected by the activities of the Border Guard. As a result, it has been proposed to increase the appropriation, which is the right direction. Finland must maintain credible and independent controls at both external and internal borders. The borders are certainly not peaceful. Customs' operating appropriations will amount to EUR 5.8 million at the beginning of the spending limits period in 2016. For this year Customs is getting an additional EUR 586000 in the amending budget to cover the costs of the Tornio operation, which is a very good thing. Next year's draft budget Customs is expected to receive EUR 500000 for the purpose in question, which can run the operation for a few months. According to the latest decision, the Centre will only be operational until 18 March 2016. The extra mentioned in the budget is earmarked for the 2015 cost of the new customs system development project. At the end of 2014, the Emergency Response Centre Agency completed a major restructuring in which the national emergency centre activities were organised in 6 emergency centres instead of the previous 15. Unfortunately, the final phase of the Erica system has been delayed and its costs have risen. I also think it is necessary to pay serious attention to government procurement of information systems. It is very important that state project know-how is ensured at all levels. Approximately EUR 30 million has been allocated for 2016 and around EUR 60 million for 2017-19 annually for key information systems and information management projects in the administrative sectors. You would think that this money would also complete the Vitja project, which is shared by the authorities. Mr President! I believe that investment in internal security is of paramount importance. Despite the tough economic situation, there can be no compromises on internal or external security.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u246	Mr President! Over the past few days, reports have been made of an increasing influx of asylum seekers across the eastern border. About 400 people have already come from there. Strong measures must be taken to stop uncontrolled asylum traffic. With regard to the recent solutions in Norway, we must now be able to take the lead without prejudice. After all, Norway already came to whether it was, or was, about 5,000 asylum seekers on bicycles, and this situation was stopped when it was forced to stop. It must be possible to prevent the flow of asylum seekers through safe countries, even through quick turns if necessary. The measures must be taken immediately so that the situation does not get as bad as at the Swedish border. If the Russian border fails, the number of arrivals can be very high, much higher than those who have come through the Swedish border. There must also be intensive discussions with the Russian authorities on this issue. The situation is surprising because, for example, at the Salla border, the border is strictly controlled. Crossing the border under normal conditions also requires very precise documents, and crossing the border is indeed not easy. It is about 150 kilometers [150 km] from the canal, 75 kilometers [75 km] from Alakurt and sometimes completely uninhabited, and there are many security stations between there. All settlements on the Russian side are really far from the border, and now suddenly there are bikes for asylum seekers on the border. Crossing the Russian border seems to occur only through two northern crossing points, namely Raja-Joosep and Salla. At first he was only at Raja-Joosep, now he's been in Salla, near us. There is a test going on here that we must have the capacity to respond to rigorously. We must have a clear message that this is not a way to go to Finland. Fortunately, negative asylum decisions have already been reached on the Russian side, but the message must already be at the point when they are coming to Finland. Norway has started to turn asylum seekers from safe countries back. However, no one can seriously claim that Norway is acting in violation of international obligations. Border neighbors should work together and strive for a coherent approach. This situation across the Russian border has had a lot of discussion in my region of Eastern Lapland and even here on the sixth floor. Thank you only to the friends who have expressed their views on this matter and have discussed it with me. My home is only 32 kilometers to the Salla border, to the border crossing point, and at this time we really do not ride bicycles anymore. We have 40 cents [40 cm] of snow, currently 30 degrees [30 ° C] below zero, and now we come to the border with bicycles. Does this really make any sense anymore? Yes, we must be able to intervene in this situation. This may actually be a security factor for asylum seekers. The only lasting solution is to restore peace in crisis areas, and refugees must be helped as close as possible to their region of origin. When deciding on refugee policy, these starting points must always be taken into account. People’s concern about the adequacy of carrying capacity and the increase in unrest is not unfounded and must be taken seriously. It is clear that racism must always and unconditionally be condemned in Finnish society, but not all criticism of immigration and asylum must be labeled racism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u247	Mr President! It is quite true that this situation of asylum seekers has come as a surprise to the whole of Europe, where the economic situation is already challenging. But now this situation needs to be dealt with, and this new situation is now being answered by this supplementary presentation. Taking care of this situation now, it is important to maintain the sensible line that has been taken under the leadership of Minister Petteri Orpo, i.e. pragmatically taking over this acute situation, but at the same time maintaining a human perspective on this whole. We have a duty to help those in need, and we must get them the asylum they need quickly, but the other side is that the process must also be quick and effective in identifying those who do not receive asylum and who will then be returned as quickly as possible. The protection police also have an important role to play in identifying extremism, as has been observed, in tackling it and even in preventing terrorism. In this respect, an increase in the appropriations is justified and necessary. In this situation of asylum seekers, however, the key is how to look ahead, how to integrate the people who can and will remain in asylum, and here the key is employment. This is why flexibility in the labour market is urgently needed. This will have the most important impact on the way in which the costs of the asylum seeker situation will ultimately be determined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u248	Mr President! There has been much talk of internal security here today. We should be talking more about internal insecurity. Like many here, I receive daily mail from citizens who say they fear for themselves or for their families or for their loved ones. Mr President! From the point of view of the municipal decision-maker, particular concern is also the fact that municipal decision-makers are not consulted on the establishment of a reception centre in the municipality. This is not the way it should be. It cannot be right that the bills for integration and after integration eventually fall to the municipal population. An example of an ordinary citizen who pays his taxes in a municipality is Heinola: A couple of hundred asylum seekers have been placed in a former Rheumatic Hospital. The message from the locals is that both children and the elderly are particularly afraid. Fear is caused by large groups of asylum seekers. These troops have included shouting, following, touching, even shooting and tampering. A small elementary school student’s school trip goes past such a vodka on a forested road for about three kilometers. School rides are not provided by the municipality, and you are afraid to go to school on foot. What can I do for you? Is moving from a place the only option? Is it the case that no reception points can be set up in the safety zones of atomic power plants or in other areas of national importance? Is it true that only those living in such places will feel safe in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u249	Congressman Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u250	Mr President! I asked the group office how much is in the government budget of the Ministry of Finance for immigration: 128 million. I've been listening to speeches all day and a few comments. Now it's starting to get a little loud and clear that things got out of hand. It has been said dozens of times in the Chamber that this came unexpectedly. Why? This is what the Finns have been warning about for years, and Halla-aho has been writing in Scriptas since 2003 on this issue. We have warned of this, we were branded only as burdens and so on. What's the status? I should have listened to what was going to happen then. Well, now I'm in my pants. It has long been known that international migration, especially from the Middle East and North Africa, is taking place. It's been a long time. For example, there are millions of immigrants in Turkey waiting for the moment when the EU is fragmented and powerless and dams open. This summer they opened, and this is just the first wave. When summer comes, the Mediterranean warms up, and there comes another wave. If we don't get anything for this, we're gonna lose money. In the spring, a large number of people came across the Mediterranean to Lampedusa, Italy, and the EU did not react in any way. And this is only the prelude to what will be in the future. There have also been dozens of repeated comments in the Chamber today that there is now an exceptional situation in Finland, as if this exceptionalness were somehow passed by itself. It does not, but without rapid blackmail, it becomes a permanent state of affairs and the cycle deepens year by year, as in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u251	Mr President! Much has been said here today about this integration, and it relates to this area of the Ministry of the Interior. In 2010, the Parliament required the Government to report by electoral period on foreign, immigration and integration policies and their functioning, and due to the busy work of the end of the parliamentary term 2011-2015, the Parliament did not have time to discuss the report that the previous government then prepared. That was the question of the integration programme. It had many reports, it contained material for the report, it had a lot to say, and it was a real shame that we had that previous period so busy and it ended with the fact that Parliament did not have time to discuss and discuss this integration report here in Parliament. But in the future I believe that we can go back to this report and, of course, we will produce new ones. But it was really good. Among other things, it involved the then Minister Päivi Räsänen and Lauri Ihalainen, and it was done in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior. It raised the very issues that have been discussed here today, and those that I myself, for example, have had to face through my work, namely the elderly: the future old age of elderly immigrant people here in Finland and what we should be prepared for and what we are prepared for. What have we done? Nothing much. So we have a lot of that kind of questions open. However, this situation on a global scale may not be so surprising when there is war in Europe. Yes, one could have been wise from afar and also thought a little about what to do. I myself asked myself a written question in the previous period about these resources of the Finnish Immigration Service and how hard they are. Must be really hard right now. But strength is needed to get through these difficult things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u252	Mr President! I had to come in here, thinking maybe in that 2 minutes there's not enough time to go through the whole thing that's on my mind. That is precisely why I asked for an answer because somehow I got the impression from the representative that this hundred-dollar weekday next to the nuclear power plant would be so easy that we have no safety risks at all when there is no need to take refugees there. Somehow I thought it was very little like the perspective and picture that hundreds of people have at least passed on to me. Yes, this time and the security threats associated with this time are to a large extent also related to the functioning of this current government, for security is not only such an external security that needs to be cared for, but also a sense of security experienced by people as to whether they depend on basic security and whether they have security at the time of their life’s need. However, since today we are talking specifically about the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, I will now focus on this debate on external security. The previous speaker, to whom I wanted to exclaim, is no longer here, but it has to be said that Mrs Juvonen spoke very recently about what kind of security threats are essential in this society. I would pay particular attention to people's sense of security, for which we parliamentarians can also do a great deal. This time when security is being discussed is quite colored for some reason, and also the security threats that we are happy to speak about here are in many ways slightly filleted, depending on the speaker. Mr President! Firstly, when we talk about the Ministry of the Interior, we should pay attention to the resources of the police. I am certainly not the first person to think that he is here very much to talk about police matters, but it is quite the time to ask you whether it is ethically correct, that we consciously believe that the expenditure on police action cannot be increased, especially in those areas where we feel that it is necessary to strengthen a national ethical conscience. In this case, I am talking about the fact that, during the last term of government, when a great deal was invested in fighting the shadow economy, it was one of the top projects in the last term of government, we have now gone through the whole of this term of government on this basic bourgeois basis that there is no desire to invest in the police having sufficient operational resources. And it does not make sense for me to say that the additional cost of 20 million a year has cost many times as much, and now we are constantly calling for the police to have sufficient resources not only to reject the black economy but also, in practice, to be able to deal with the fact that these big villains are being caught. And now I think it is important that more than 4 million should be spent on the police so that we can ensure that we strengthen this national conscience in this regard too. It cannot be thought that all those with low incomes, poor, unemployed, all those who are sick and all those who are otherwise poor will be sought to balance the economy, but those who put on the sock without justification will not be called into account. And that is why I think it is very important for national morals that this police budget should be sufficient, and that is not what is happening. I think we all have to feel the responsibility and also the shame of this. Also, when talking about police budgets, attention should be paid to the fact that it is absurd that police officers should not be trained enough to have enough police, police and women in the future. Now we already know that even retirement will not be completed with this current number of people trained. Mr President! I would like to say a few words about immigration, but five minutes will be full and the club arm will soon appear to be cramping, so the only thing I will say about immigration is that it is unfortunate that we do not reserve sufficient resources for integration, and these shortcomings in integration will cost us dearly. And well spoken, but we haven't talked about where the money is when it's well spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u253	Mr President! For this integration of asylum seekers: In my region of Lapland, I have visited Kemijärvi and Rovaniemi to get to know the situation and overall situation of asylum seekers there, and I have then taken a strong stand on the organisation and management of these matters and now I would like to raise two issues: language learning and then practical training. Firstly, this language learning: I think it is important to provide these asylum seekers with the opportunity to spend four hours of their daily language learning online. When it happens on the Internet, then it really does not cost a lot of money: we have good Internet connections at every facility, and then people already have pretty good equipment, there are equipment available there. That four hours a day would be possible through this online study. And then there would be a small language test, after which it would be possible to go to work. I would like to compare this with the fact that we have a large number of students in Finland who are not paid for their training. It is an agreement between students, school, and then this internship that they can be there to practice at the workplace. There may be a very small compensation, often no compensation is paid for being there. We could have a similar situation for these asylum seekers so that they can get to know working life through this. They really do miss and need this. In the future of rural areas, there was a story that a large proportion of farms would be ready to take asylum seekers to their farms. According to it, as many as 20,000 asylum seekers could come
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u254	Mr President! Referring to that speech by Mr Kiuru: He mentioned that the government is not investing in this education and integration, but, for example, in the primary school sector and in municipalities, asylum seekers are now going to be counted in this funding that municipalities will receive in order to organise education. Now, when these children come to the schools in the middle of the year, they are counted as part of that funding. This was not the case in the past, but only once a year this number of students were calculated, and the municipalities have been in particular in difficulty in not having enough money to train these children and young people now. Here, too, on the side of liberal education, we are investing in education for those over 16 years of age. We have good examples of this, such as the Kainuu College has been doing good work on this for a long time. And the government will also increase the budget to increase this integration training in reception centres, particularly in the field of language and culture, and it will be made more effective. Then, above all, what is most important, these employment opportunities will be improved so that asylum seekers can, for example, take part in voluntary work and take part in this social security and then do things, and that is what they themselves want. Work is the best social security and integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u255	Mr President! I had some doubts about that speech by Mrs Majala. If I can conclude by saying that I was a little surprised at where the 20,000 jobs come from. I couldn't catch up with that article in the paper, I'll look at it separately, of course, but it's tough if we have 20,000 jobs in agriculture. We have so many Finnish unemployed at the moment that I am, of course, horribly amazed at where all those jobs are coming from just this evening and the evening. It is a major political question whether this immigration outside the EU and this work permit procedure will be opened in the way that the government is now working hard to plan. It's really tough for the unemployed in Finland, and I really hope to be patient with this conversation so that we don't leave. Then I must also say that each of us already knows — and we, too, the Social Democrats — that the funds allocated for next year for this integration are far too small. I know, as chairman of the Education Section, that we were also told that, after these individual correction movements, which were forced to be done immediately, the key question is how much money should be put into the amending budget and what kind of integration programmes we are actually going to use. And in that respect, I thank Mrs Maijala that this is the right principle, that language training is the key to this whole job, and that is something we have totally missed. You can't think we're not doing this. You cannot keep people for months in such a way that no cultural education is given, for example. After all, on the cultural education side, we have already ruled out the fact that this could be done better. That is why I would emphasise that you should take this seriously. This integration must be given the financial resources, and that is why we are:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u256	Mr President! I have a few comments to make to this speech by Mr Kiuru. First of all, I was talking about internships. I wasn't talking about jobs. The first thing is that they get access to traineeships, i.e. they get to know working life in exactly the same way as students from different educational institutions in Finland practice and thus get to know working life. After all, they are not ready-made workers, but they could be there for a while, for example, on farms to help with their work, but in many other places they could be. The article I referred to was about the future of the countryside, in which it was pointed out that there are already a lot of foreign workers working on Finnish farms, just because Finnish workers are not able to get them to work really hard, for example, for cattle farms to work long hours early in the morning, late in the evening or for these berry farms. For example, we currently have very few Finnish employees on the river Suonen in the field of berry picking and picking. In other words, we have surprisingly much of this really hard work in Finland, which may not be able to get any more Finnish workers on the way. And the fact that farms had responded so positively to this issue reflects the fact that we actually have a need for operators and factors and a common concern that we in society should move forward on this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u257	Mr President! Just to say that we have 61,000 jobs open all the time, on average — jobs that Finns do not want to do. This is a very special situation. We have a huge number of jobs, so that we have to think about who is doing these specific jobs. In the nursing sector, for example, the situation is that if you do not get foreign workers there, no one will work for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u258	Mr President! It is good to continue with what previous representatives have said that we do not have the work and the workers in Finland at the moment, that is true. We have unworked jobs, but at the moment we do not even get Finns into all these jobs, which are really open. There is a lot of unworked work, especially on farms, but does it pay decent wages, and that is quite different. But the main thing about this speech was that I think it is good that both asylum seekers, immigrants in general and Finns have access to work, it is voluntary work or it is real work. It is precisely to promote employment and to enable people to do something and do something about the social security that comes from their society, or this right amount of pay. I guess now we want to encourage both immigrants and Finns to participate in society and to contribute to this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u259	Mr President! Of course, it's good that everyone gets settled in. Work is the best medicine for it, and you usually get to work either through language skills and previous professional backgrounds, through education or by re-training or by freeing up the vocational training which is. The problem for us at the moment is that in many areas we have very few of these traineeships. In this regard, the government itself gave up reducing vocational training from three years, because it would have been very difficult to carry out this last year at the workplace when, according to some estimates, it would have required up to 50,000 jobs if this had been done for the age group currently in vocational training. For this reason, we must be able to reconcile in society this interest in integration, the interest that these existing jobs will be directed to the very people who are unemployed, and then to the point where we do not open up a labour market where this non-EU labour immigration would significantly increase in a situation where we simply do not need it. In that respect, putting these pools in order for their part means that you cannot look at this debate with a very one-eyed eye, because the fact is that, in such a situation of employment, we cannot think that this Finnish people would not be employed or offered jobs. But in that regard, it is a good concern and good integration stories have been found on farms, because the fact is that many jobs have experienced the joy of success and many villages have been given new inhabitants just because they have become workers. But the most important thing is to say that, in the end, every job should also be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u260	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Kiuru said in the last sentence: every job must be paid, and in such a way that he can do it. Mr Laukkanen, you mentioned here that we lack staff in the care sector and we will soon be unable to cope. As a nurse myself, I would like to differ on that point, which is the situation at the moment. It was just in November that it was reported that we currently have a record number of nurses who are unemployed, and that is because, unfortunately, the municipalities are sparing, and not necessarily even their own nurses can find that job. It seems crazy, because we have also lived through the time that every nurse gets a job and there is a real shortage of nurses, and I myself have once responded to the labor pain and then found a job. It is a question of pay in the sector and of the market being attractive. A well-educated Finnish nurse is a hard currency in that world — she goes to Norway or she goes to Sweden or Europe to do that work. I myself have been a mentor to local nursing students with an immigrant background in my previous job and I know how demanding it is when there is a lack of language skills in the community and in the workplace. There is a need for different means to take that quiet knowledge and skill forward. People who attend their nursing school in Finland will become really good workers then, but it's all a and o the learning of language skills, and it's just a cold fact that you learn it best at the workplace with support and practical work. So in that sense we have a really long, long path to go, but it is quiet and slow and time-consuming
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u261	Mr President! It was a good thing that this came to light, that there must be pay for work, because indeed these farms had talked about paid work, that they would hire these asylum seekers to work. I myself brought up and I bring up the fact that farms could go to practice first, because at that point there would be first this language learning alongside its work and otherwise the study of land customs and things like this. In my opinion, it would make sense to have the right training period at first, because in that way they could get in the way. After that, farms could do this sort of hiring, even for farm work, as well as for other places. I myself have taken a legislative initiative a couple of months ago that once you have been an asylum seeker for a month, you can already apply for a job, a job, normally a job on the way, but that now seems to be another way forward and moving forward. There has been a lot of discussion on this issue. But indeed, first the language jobs and then as an intern at the workplace, and then along with language learning, above all through the Internet, which is an opportunity for everyone, and then the opportunity to go on a journey to the world of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u262	Mr President! This hall and this Parliament is so that people can talk here. Let's talk about the telephone pole on its knees there, and we're good at it, but the practice has slipped very far away. We have a problem. We're understaffed. Let's go to the berry farms. There aren't really any Finns there, a few maybe. There are Ukrainians, Estonians, Russians, Thais. Forest berries are currently gathering Thais, and they become integrated as soon as they find work, they come after that job. The market forces are handling this situation. Now that we begin to talk with fine words about this employment and integration, and this: What has happened? What's happened to the Somalis? What has happened to the Iraqis, the Afghans and these? Nothing's gonna happen. The market forces will otherwise deal with this sort of thing when they are allowed to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u263	Mr President! That is all I have to say to Mrs Juvonen, who knows very well that the care sector is wide and, for example, there is a crying need for these nurses in the care of the elderly, and I wonder if we are even talking about the same thing when I usually think of Mrs Juvo as an expert in this area. But, for example, in the care of the elderly, my loved ones are in a nursing home, where eight of the ten nurses are immigrants. And they're not because there's some kind of lower wages for them, they're because they don't get anything else. Well, that's the way it is, but that's the way it is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u264	Mr President! Today, when we talk about home affairs, of course, our central question when we talk about immigration is how integration is done here in the section of the Ministry of the Interior. And then we will talk about how to start this earlier integration in reception centres. I think it is particularly about integration into this culture and then it becomes language skills. I do not think it is out of our hands that people who are allowed to live and reside in the country while they are asylum seekers are waiting for the decision whether to stay, also through this language and culture, should become an element of this integration. And in that respect, the big question is, at what point should this training begin? Our point of view is that from here on out, this language training chain should be taken forward. But then we come to what is in this Chamber today, and now we have a debate: we should also be getting started on getting people to work, and so on. Then the big question will be what you will answer to those immigrants who, for example, are currently long-term unemployed. In the last supplementary budget debate, where these employment appropriations were increased when I checked, we had 91 immigrants waiting for language training as long-term unemployed, but there were 60 seats for two courses. And once they had reached these two courses, these previous ones, 91 people expected to be able to get into language training, so it is essential for our society’s resources that we get these people who could get into working life very quickly, who lack language training for the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u265	Mr President! I am sure Mr Antero Laukkanen will also have a strong view of the way things can be in Finland, and we have different areas, as my neighbour, among others, said about his own region that there is indeed a shortage of nurses there. But if you visit MOL’s sites, the employment services’ websites, you will notice that the number of vacancies in the care sector has decreased considerably and in abundance. I go there regularly to look at those jobs, and that is a cold truth. But there are, of course, regional differences in Finland. I think it is great that we are taking all the workers who want to enter the care sector and who have training. After all, education is the starting point for all of it, and then if a little bit of language skills are lost at the workplace, then the lost thing will be caught when that language is learned. People who get a job that takes root through a job in Finland are a huge asset to us. They become taxpayers, that's what we need in Finland, and that's a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u266	Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u267	Madam President! Between 2012 and 2014, the Defence Administration carried out a comprehensive defence power reform. The aim was to ensure Finland’s defence capability and to achieve permanent cost savings. The reform adapted the Defence Forces to decreasing age groups and increasing cost pressures. The committee welcomes the fact that in 2015 the Defence Forces have been able to restore the level of activity to the level required for the task and the production of high-performance troops. According to a report received by the committee, this level can also be maintained in 2016. The committee also welcomes the fact that, in line with the report of the parliamentary study group, EUR 50 million has been added to the procurement of military equipment. With regard to operational expenditure, the Committee notes that a change in the operating environment requires a higher capability of the Defence Forces. Urgent measures are required in particular to increase the rapid response capability of the Army and to develop cyber defence capabilities. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the defence power reform was largely financed at the expense of the acquisition of military equipment and by reducing its activities. The cuts also accumulated maintenance and training debts. The committee considers it extremely problematic that operational expenditure should continue to be financed at the expense of new acquisitions. Material procurement accounts for only about 22% of the proposed military defence budget. In the view of the committee, this level cannot be considered sufficient. Material procurement must account for about one third of the defence budget to maintain a credible defence capability. Mr President! In addition, in the longer term, the challenge lies in the adequacy of funding for the Defence Forces' forthcoming major material investments, such as the Fleet 2020 project and the replacement of the Hornet fighters. These contracts cannot be included in the normal procurement budget but require separate funding. The Committee notes that the scarcity of material procurement will inevitably also have an impact on domestic procurement and on the development of skills in the domestic defence industry and on employment opportunities. Our defence industry is an essential part of national defence capabilities and security of supply. As a small country producing defence equipment, it is therefore essential for Finland to have the same interpretation of the regulations on defence industrial competition in the EU countries. Support for the activities of defence organisations: The committee notes that voluntary defence plays an important role in the Finnish defence system. The activities of national defence organisations strengthen the performance of the reserve and the general will to defend the country. The committee also notes that in recent years the National Defence Training Association (MPK) has also successfully located a deficit in the Defence Forces' refresher exercises. The Committee considers it necessary that this cost-effective activity should continue to be exploited and that an appropriate balance be struck between the Defence Forces and the refresher exercises organised by the MPK. At the same time, the way in which the MPK will operate in the coming years must be resolved. The committee will add EUR 400000 to support defence organisations. Mr President! Finally, on the equipment and procurement costs of military crisis management, a few words: The Committee draws attention to the fact that the margin for changes in the current operations and possible new operations is very limited. This also applies to the maintenance costs of crisis management teams for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the Committee's view, the appropriations for these items should be kept at a minimum level so that, if necessary, an urgent new operation can be launched without an amending budget procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u268	Madam President! As Minister of Defence, I am naturally pleased with the positive interest that the draft budget of my administration for next year has received in Parliament. I believe that the report presented by Mr Nikon on behalf of the Committee on Finance highlights the right points and that it is easy to agree on the points raised in the report. I thank all those involved. A moderate increase in defence expenditure next year will allow us to increase material purchases, and despite Group savings, we can keep the level of operations next year at the level of the current year. This means that the reservist refresher exercises, the military field days, the Air Force flight hours and the Navy vessel days are not compromised. I agree with the committee that a change in the operating environment requires a higher level of preparedness. We can increase this in a cost-neutral way by developing legislation and, of course, by increasing resources. With regard to this first development, I hope that in this Chamber we will agree with the legislative reforms that the government will propose in the future in order to achieve a better capacity for action. With regard to the proportion of material procurement in the military defence budget, it is not quite simple. According to the Government's supplementary proposal, EUR 51 million will be transferred from material purchases to operating expenditure. However, this wealth is not used to finance operations but is used, among other things, for the maintenance and spare parts of new systems. In budgetary terms, these are covered by operational expenditure, which in itself obscures the examination of the traditional tripartite. In actual material procurement costs, the projects include advanced material procurement, many of which extend over several years. Similarly, spare parts and ammunition for the maintenance of systems are on the side of operating costs. I agree with the committee that during the reform of the Defence Forces there will be a shortage of both training and spare parts in the Defence Forces. Work must be done to eliminate this deficit. I would particularly like to thank Parliament for raising the appropriations for voluntary defence to the previous level. Thanks to this addition, we do not have to cut off voluntary defence, which is a cost-effective way of maintaining our reserves. The committee's will for cooperation and funding between the Defence Forces and the National Defence Training Association is a good guiding principle. Mr President! The opposition's protest also drew attention to the funding of the defence and raised small increases. This is a pleasant message, because defence, if anything, is our common cause. The main opposition party’s objection to the SDP contained three statements. To these, the budget proposal now under discussion is enough to maintain the level and number of reserve refresher exercises at this year's level. Similarly, the additional funding proposed by Parliament for voluntary national defence is sufficient to safeguard the activities of national defence organisations. Mr President! Finally, briefly on crisis management. The President of the Republic and the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy (TP-UTVA) discussed last week 11. On 1 December, Finland responded to the French request for assistance following the terrorist attacks in Paris and to the US request for assistance in relation to the anti-Isis coalition. In response, Finland will provide a follow-up to and extension of the Erbil training mission in Northern Iraq and an extension of its participation in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. In the past, Finland has already decided to strengthen its participation in the UN MINUSMA crisis management operation in Mali by up to 20 persons. Now, in TP-UTVA, it was decided to investigate the increase in the volume. The costs of the operations mentioned above may require additional appropriations for military crisis management measures next year, but for them the Government will present its proposals in the amending budget. Given the current situation in military crisis management, it was positive that the SDP and the Greens put forward additional appropriations for military crisis management equipment expenditure. We agree that Finnish soldiers should not be sent in inadequately equipped to the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u269	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to take part in the debate to make a one-minute speech by pressing the V button and standing up. And in this context I already say that, first and foremost, representatives of the Committee on Defence will be given the floor, but of course others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u270	Mr President! We are well aware that the security environment is changing in an unpleasant way, in a way that means that in practice we must also be able to draw conclusions, conclusions that mean solutions not only for foreign and security policy but also for defence policy. The Ministry of the Interior has already been at the heart of this debate in many ways. I would like to ask the Minister in this connection: what are the issues resulting from this change in the security environment that are now the most urgent and necessary issues that now require Finnish attention? And at the same time I say that crisis management expenditure is not going to happen, the line is the right one in this respect, which means that, as the case may be, progress must be made, but I hope that it will also be possible to maintain the line adopted in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u271	Madam President! The Defence Administration's budgets are divided, as the Minister said, traditionally into three main categories of staff, materials and activities. However, in this speech by the Minister it has now become clear that there are also major challenges in the spending limits period for this triangle, when money is being moved between materials and activities within the budget. However, you said that there is a prospect for the coming years that we will be able to ensure that the level of repetition exercises is adequate. What is the basis of this assessment, because, as I said earlier, these changes within the budget are being made all the time? But recognition must also be given when there is a place for a positive confession. The government has taken in its own proposal and, lastly, the additional funding of this National Defence Training Association of EUR 400000, which can contribute to securing the important work of national defence organisations. That's what I want to thank you for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u272	Madam President! In a world that has become uncertain, at least Finland's defence solution, based on general military duty and so on, has proved to be sustainable and wise, and there is no reason for it to think of someone else. On this basis, we will continue to develop it. Secondly, the fact that the budget was able to agree on an increase of 50 million in appropriations for furniture contracts on the basis of the working group chaired by Mr Kanerva also shows that there is strength in cooperation. When the government and the opposition are able to agree with each other for years to come, it will be able to carry it and will also take it to the budget. In this respect, Minister, the prospects. We'll have to try and see, extend to the 2020s. There are large procurements ahead, and I will not interfere with them, but it will be quite a headache to equip these 230,000 troops, our military soldiers, and cover the current operating costs in the next decade. How do you look at this view, to which, among other things, Chief of Staff Räty seemed to have referred most recently?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u273	Mr President! It has been said that the crisis that is going on is the biggest since World War II, and we also know that we are in a difficult geopolitical position. So we might have to think about whether we have any threats and where we're going. It is therefore important that we have a credible defence and security policy. We have threats, cyber security and so on, that even though we are a small country here in the North, we may not be safe. But if that is the work of the committee: we were grateful that the budget added this EUR 400000 to the defence of the country, which is doing very valuable work, as well as in crisis management, that we are reducing the troops. But knowing what this world situation is, it can never be said that, next year, should crisis management not be involved in some unexpected situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u274	Mr President! Next year will look good and it will be possible to maintain the number of refresher exercises, but the spending limits will involve a reduction threat of up to 45 million dollars, and this will require action. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö: has this already been resolved? The additional funding of voluntary defence work from Parliament is certainly important, and the EU aid clause has also been discussed here. It and its full use are of paramount importance for such a country, which is not part of NATO, and I would like to ask how progress has been made in this legislative work. Finally, the EU Firearms Directive is about to be decided, and I would also like to ask Minister Niinistö how it will weaken our defence if it moves forward. Hopefully, Finland will have a firm consensus that the EU Firearms Directive should not be adopted in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u275	Madam President! Finland is well known for crisis management, both military and civilian crisis management, and that is why the Social Democrats have put forward a proposal both on the material side and on the staff side, for the reason that we read the Government Programme, which seeks to reduce the number of people to 90-120. There is now a contradiction that the desired savings were quite large, and now that requests are coming from around the world and there are crises, however, there are going to be troops from different parts of the world for both civilian and military crisis management, and hopefully this can be done. How does the Minister of Defence feel that this is in relation to the savings you have set for crisis management, now these requests and the promises that have been made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u276	Mr President! Three questions to the Minister in charge. Firstly, with regard to the clauses on solidarity and assistance in the Treaty of Lisbon. With a few national legislations now in place, do you see a threat to the EU’s political pressure to try to harmonise the form, content and timetable of this assistance and to reduce this national judgement in that regard in the coming times? The second question, which surprised me: When reference was made to this change in the security environment, I noticed in public in July the Minister's open speculation that Åland's position has changed. Could you be more specific about how this has changed? Thirdly, when we talk about increasing the money for civilian and military crisis management, it is now estimated that between EUR 650 million and EUR 700 million have gone to Afghanistan in total, without any lasting results. What do you think of this situation in Afghanistan today?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u277	Mr President! The best security policy is a wise foreign policy. But wisdom is also to ensure that we have a credible defence of our own, and that is now being discussed when discussing the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the administrative sector. These large investments, which we are facing, have already come to light: investment in the new fleet, replacement of the Hornets — the size category is approaching EUR 10 billion, and it will become more precise over the next few years. Obviously, decisions will only be taken by the next government, even though they are already being prepared. Is it clear, Minister, that the next government, regardless of colour, is also committed to this project? So has there been a debate on this with the opposition parties, in case the current government base does not go on for the second time in a row — that is, of course, decided by the people? Can you also clarify the extent to which this Erbil training mission and the Lebanese mission are to be extended? Does the government already have an idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u278	Madam President! Firstly, I would also like to commend the increase of EUR 400000 to defence organisations. This is a very important issue. As is well known, In recent years, the Defence Forces have been subject to constant operational expenditure pressures. The air force, for example, has accumulated more than 2,700 HN hours of training debt as a result of the savings and increased operational activity during the last parliamentary term. Catching up on the education debt with the current operating expenditure framework is impossible. Next year, HN hours are likely to fall to 8800 unless additional funding is provided. Adequate training of pilots and securing flight hours are a key element in maintaining performance. I would like to ask the Minister how this education debt is to be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u279	Madam President! On behalf of both the Voluntary National Defence Advisory Board and the National Defence Organisations, I should like to express my most humble thanks to the Committee on Finance for the fact that these vital funds for voluntary defence will now remain unchanged and this increase of EUR 400000 has come. Of course, what I would like to ask the Minister of State is whether, in the preparation of next year's budget, we could now have a debate with the Ministry of Finance not to have to do that year after year? We in the committee gave very strong feedback to the experts from the Ministry of Finance on this issue, but this should also be brought forward. In fact, my question relates to this firearms directive, which Mr Heinonen has already raised. That is an extremely important issue for us. How do you see, Minister, our influence on this issue now? We in the committee made a strong statement on this, but how do we deal with this in the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u280	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. So far, so good work for Niinis. There is a very exceptional time in Europe, the situation in Ukraine and the situation of asylum seekers — at least two things at the very top of the list. I would also like to thank you for the fact that we have now received an increase in appropriations for this administrative sector. I would also like to thank Mrs Kanerva's parliamentary working group, whose work is reflected in this report by the Committee on Finance. But the real question for the Minister is about the capacity of the defence industry, the slightly broader question: How do you see the situation of the domestic defence industry? Security of supply is one factor, counter-trade thinking is no longer possible as before. Do Finnish operators have the opportunity to operate in international markets, which unfortunately also have a great deal of corruption and corruption? Finns are not happy to enter into this activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u281	Värderade Talman! Försvarsmaktsreformen genomfördes och försvarsmakten är nu dimensionerrad på ett bra jätt, men där finns fortfarande utmangar speciellt när det gäller materielanskaffningarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u282	Mr President! The Defence Forces have been subjected to major cuts in the past, and this development has threatened our defence capability and has taken it in the wrong direction. This threat has been seen, and it is very important that the government, and hopefully Parliament now, increase these appropriations in a significant way. This is very necessary. With regard to the Reservists, it is very important that the number of refresher exercises is finally brought to an appropriate level. And in this respect, this appropriation for national defence training is also very good: it is very good that this appropriation is once again secured, but it is also appropriate that this unfortunate tradition of using this money should be cut off. However, the will has always been the same in Parliament. The same situation for the reservists is linked to this Arms Directive. Our own defence system is efficient and inexpensive and these opportunities for training must not be undermined by this inefficient weapons directive. Mr President! This military retirement age
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u283	Mr President! First of all, I would have thanked Minister Niinistö for having welcomed the development of Nordic cooperation, the development of European cooperation and international crisis management in your ministry's work. These are all important pillars, and we see that now, including the French and US requests for assistance. But I would have asked you what you think of the development of this European defence cooperation: how will it develop now, after what has happened in France? When France used this bilateral Article 42.7 — and although there are EU agreements such as Article 222 for these terrorist attacks — is there going to be such a development of a common defence within the EU as requested and bilaterally by individual countries? Is this current situation causing something new at the end?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u284	Mr President! I also agree with the representatives who thank the Committee on Finance for this increase in the level of voluntary defence work, and I hope in future, as has been suggested here, that it can be ensured in advance. Crisis management issues are close to me, and now that France has made this request and Finland has responded well, in my view, by participating in UNIFIL operations in Lebanon, among other things, I ask the Minister how you will see the role of international crisis management in the future. Would Finland be able to increase funds there and participate in more and more crisis management sites and thus gain experience and practice for Finnish reservists? On the other hand, what is this overall level of voluntary national defence — will it be sufficient in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u285	I will give three more replies before the Minister's reply, and they are representatives of Terho, Salolainen and Plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u286	Madam President! Independent defence based on compulsory military service is a matter common to Finns, a matter of honour and also a matter of appreciation abroad. In this respect, it is very comforting to hear from the Minister that refresher exercises can be maintained and also made with increased funds. Indeed, both are essential that the whole basis of our duty to defend the country remains, that the reservists feel that they are still part of the defence system, and that they see that we also have the material on which defence can be maintained even at the time of the crisis. The Army is the most important part of our defence, given Finland's geopolitical position. How are these new funds now able to make material purchases specifically for the Army, and do some of the necessary capabilities remain unfulfilled?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u287	Mr President! Military cooperation between Finland and Sweden has recently deepened unprecedentedly. I note, for example, that the Swedish Minister of Defence recently stated that Finland is the only country with which there is agreement that we are practicing for situations that are also outside the state of peace. So there is still a very deep cooperation in the form of exercises in various fields, and this will require some resources, new resources. I ask the Minister: do we have the capacity for this deepening, which is taking place very quickly now, and can we respond to this cry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u288	Mr President! Today, security challenges are more diverse. A grey area has emerged between war and peace, characterised by small green men, hybrid war and disinformation. Cyber attack, for example, can paralyse modern society without a single shot. At the same time, Finland's preparation for cyber threats has been compared with the resources of the City of Helsinki to combat the city kans, and this is not about large sums of money. At the cost of one used tank, it would be possible to double the resources of Finnish network safety in practice. How will these resources of credible national cyber defence be secured? Attention and money are focused on large investments, such as fighter acquisitions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u289	Minister Niinistö, 3 minutes at this stage, and then, before we move on to the next issue, there will be a 5 minute closing statement, but now 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u290	Madam President! Thank you for your constructive questions. 3 minutes is a very short time to answer, but I will try to answer as many as I can. The Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, said that the security environment has changed. That is something we can all agree with, and as a result it is a duty to make decisions. This increase in preparedness is the Achilles' heel in the formation of this general military-based reserve army, but we can, in this parliamentary term, cost-neutrally take action specifically on legislation. In particular, the reservists can be invited to a refresher exercise in a shorter time than the current three-month period, and we can, for example, give more thought to the use of conscripts. This type of reform can well be done in a cost-neutral way. Representative Kari asked about the challenges of the spending limits period. The level of refresher exercises will be maintained by prioritising. This government is not going to compromise on the general military duty, so the aim is to maintain the refresher exercises and the training of the armed forces at the highest possible level. Mr Kääriäinen asked about the horizons of the 2020s and, in particular, about equipping the wartime forces. After all, in connection with the reform of the armed forces, we reduced our wartime forces by more than a third to 230, and, admittedly, there are still significant shortcomings in their provision. This is something that must be seen in the reporting processes during this parliamentary term, particularly in this new defence report. This is an issue on which a common position must be taken in the same spirit as the parliamentary defence group led by Mr Kanerva during the last parliamentary term and a good consensus was found. Mr Heinonen also asked about the challenges of the spending limits, but also about this progress in EU assistance legislation. Hopefully, next spring, Parliament will have something to chew on in this respect. Several representatives asked about the Firearms Directive and its impact on Finland, and the impact on Finland is particularly on voluntary defence. The Government has taken a clear position against this Firearms Directive, and in Parliament the Defence Committee and the Administrative Committee have also taken constructive positions on these. It is now up to us to influence this preparation and to highlight Finland's positions. It has become clear that Finland's defence solution, our defence solution based on general military duty, is not sufficiently understood at European Union level, and this is a place of influence for us. The representative of Mustajärvi asked if it had changed in the position of Åland. No, it's not. Åland is still a demilitarised and neutralized area, but our security environment has undoubtedly changed. Mr Mustajärvi also asked about the situation in Afghanistan and said that no lasting results had been achieved there and asked what the situation was. Admittedly, the situation is weak, and now we are mainly buying time by freezing this year's force for next year too. It is also in the interests of Finland. It aims to curb the influx of immigrants to Finland from Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u291	Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u292	Mr President! I am suddenly going to go a little further away from defence policy and ask the Minister whether he sees any chance that the solution to the military retirement age issue could be dismantled in one way or another so that it would not entail additional costs for the Defence Forces, as is happening in practice. But then with regard to defence policy, I would like to ask the Minister whether we are now going to an active stage in concrete cooperation with Sweden, which would continue the consistent line that has been in sight here for some years, to which Mr Salolainen referred, and which I hope could be achieved not only in private but also as a wider presence of Finland and Sweden in our security environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u293	Madam President! I think that in this debate, or mainly in questions, there is quite such oversized optimism. The term 'increased appropriations' is used here, and so on, which creates the impression that our financial position on the side of the defence administration is positive. However, we know that we do not have a clear idea, neither Parliament nor the government of the country, which finances key performance procurements, first to the Navy and later to the Defence Forces, as Mrs Kaikonen has rightly pointed out in her own speech. In this context, therefore, priority must be given to operators that are essential to our security of supply, Patria, Nammo and so on. In addition to creating Finnish work through this, Finnish security of supply will also be created for those times when and if there is a need for it in due course. Let's hope not, of course. I'll ask the minister: Last season, you were actively opposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u294	Madam President! First of all, thank you, on my own behalf, for the funding of defence organisations and thank you to the Minister for the proposal. I would now like to refer to the previous debate on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, and there was much talk in the Chamber of the scarce resources of the police. You have suggested that a supplement to the police system could be introduced to make use of the Defence Forces' reserve, and in this way you would like to offer support from your own sector in order to improve or safeguard internal security. How is this project at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u295	Madam President! This crisis management again. Is it now the case that the government wants to invest in all these requests now made, which means that at least the present number, that is, more than 500 people, would then be around the world in these crisis spots? And if, on the other hand, it is drawn to 90 to 120 under the Government Programme, then what is the future of our crisis management training? It is one thing to train less than 100 people than 500 to 1000 people per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u296	Madam President! After all, peace-keeping activities will turn 60 next year. The first troops left for Suez. It has become a crisis management activity over time. Finland has been and is very loyal to the UN as a member of the UN in these matters, of course. My question, Minister: when crisis management has gone more and more in the direction of coalitions, in the direction of coalition concepts, Finland participates in various coalitions in crisis management operations, do you consider this direction to be a good and desirable direction for Finland, or would this be, as it were, an old crisis management model, long-term participation in operations and leadership role there, better for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u297	Mr President! This change in the security environment, either real or at least, could be said more critically, even partly highlighted, about it. With interest, I followed the media in connection with the US presidential elections, especially the Republican presidential election candidates, and there was talk of such a miniature military alliance. The Nordic countries and the Baltic countries as a group of eight countries were identified as an option. What is your assessment, Minister, of the fact that in the United States, at least half of Finland is already seen much more closely as a member of the military alliance and that this group of countries as a whole would then be closer to NATO membership?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u298	Madam President! I would have continued with that reflection by Mrs Kääriäinen. Is it possible to think, now that these coalitions are formed, that the risk levels of peacekeeping missions or crisis management tasks may be different depending on whose coalition is involved? Has the Ministry considered this and have you yourself considered this, that while responding positively to these, how are these risk assessments thought as if according to the leaders of the coalitions, and would, for example, UN-led operations in this sense be less problematic? And the second question: When you are a scientist from your background and I myself have given great thought to what war is and when France was the target of a terrorist attack, it was found that the country has been subjected to a military attack and is being sought for help through these channels, and yet the objective of terrorism is often not to take over land or to change government in itself, but to create a general disorder and chaos, in what way do you distinguish this response to terrorism and then military action from one another in your thinking?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u299	Mr President! The backwardness of intelligence legislation and its impact on national security are of course considerable. Even before the attacks in Paris, the government launched three separate legislative projects with the aim of responding better to threats to national security and enabling more comprehensive international intelligence and data intelligence to the authorities responsible for security. The work of the parliamentary group will begin tomorrow. I would like to ask the Minister: do you see any other legislative needs that should be urgently put in place and implemented because this security environment has changed so radically and rapidly?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u300	Madam President! It must be recognised that the necessary adjustment measures have been carried out in the defence sector and in an accelerated timetable. But there is cause for concern as to whether this has happened with the result that there is some sort of fatigue among the staff. My question is this: are there plans now in the Ministry's administrative field for the development of the division and motivation of staff at work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u301	Mr President! The big thing from the point of view of the future activities of the Defence Forces is that these will replace, above all, the purchase of aircraft, and it has been said that these will then be done with separate funding. I am very defensive and I think it is important that matters of defence are handled well. At the same time, however, when you have started this preparation, it is true that it is possible to prepare for such a massive purchase of weapons as would be the purchase of 60 new aircraft, and I am a little concerned that this programme will not be built on the clay floor, given that aircraft prices have risen in such an extraordinary way compared to the situation two decades ago. Should we not now also think about this whole class issue, that it will not be the case that when offers have been received at some point, then it is said that they are based on this purchase of machinery that exceeds 60 or even 60? We should prepare this number of Air Force aircraft for the opportunity we have in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u302	Madam President! The important additional challenge posed by the pension reform for the defence regime has already been highlighted in some previous speeches. The increase in the military pensionable age by two years will therefore cut the number of professional military reserves. According to experts consulted by the committee, 600 new posts should be created to cover the need for wartime, which in turn would increase the cost of the Defence Forces by around EUR 40 million per year. And I would also like to ask the Minister: have there already been any action in the Defence Forces in response to this increase in the retirement age?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u303	Mr President! I too can express my concern about the consequences of this reform of the military pension system, as Mrs Kanerva and the whole committee and, lastly, Mr Pelkonen have pointed out. But I would actually renew my question in relation to these large acquisitions, in relation to the fleet and the Air Force. In fact, the question of Mr Heinäluoto is still underlining whether there is a sufficient political consensus here for such large acquisitions. When it is intended that the actual decisions will only be taken during the next term of government, and it cannot now be considered quite certain that this present government will continue the other way in a row, has there been sufficient discussion here that no unnecessary work is being done and that the other government would like to look at the matter on a completely different basis? It would be reasonable for this to seek a rather broad political consensus on these procurements already at this stage. I would also like to ask about the invitation reform: do you have any ideas about it? Various models have been presented, including that women too could attend the invitations, but not as conscripts, but as otherwise such as checking out the age class and encouraging the defence spirit of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u304	Madam President! The opinion of the Committee on Defence states that during 2015 the Defence Forces have been able to restore refresher exercises, off-road days, flight hours and days on board to the level required for the production of tasks and high-performance forces. EUR 50 million has been added to material procurement and EUR 400000 has been added to support the activities of defence training organisations. There are no signs of surrender in the air, good thing, and we should thank the Minister for what he has done so far. Madam President! In addition to thanks, I ask the Minister how the Defence Forces intend to make use of domestic operators in their procurement of materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u305	Madam President! I agree with these thanks to the Committee on Finance for providing more funding for defence. Indeed, alongside credible national defence, the will to defend must be maintained, and this is a good example of that. Thank you, Minister, you have done an excellent job of this defence power reform. However, there may still be many factors to do, and even now 200 jobs are still leaving the Defence Forces. How has this reform progressed, and have, for example, the material plant and these other areas also started well? The second issue raised by Mrs Kanerva and Mr Salolainen is this Nordic cooperation, especially with Sweden, but I would like to raise this issue in the wider context of Nordefco's activities. We have good examples of the round table discussion and the spirit of the Nordic countries and what kind of spirit Finland is involved in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u306	Madam President! I understand the limitations on speaking time and that the Minister did not have time to answer all the questions, but this question of a new, deep cooperation between Sweden and Finland is one that requires an answer. We have now drawn attention to it by several representatives here, because it will also include the possibility of cooperation outside the peace period and include a wide range of training opportunities. Furthermore, if there is time for the Minister to reply, I would ask: on what timetable do you consider that these extended participations of Finnish soldiers in foreign operations — that law — can come to Parliament next spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u307	Mr President! The change in the operating environment always requires a high level of preparedness of the Defence Forces, whether on land, at sea or in the air. I would like to ask which one of you is most important: for example, is air defence in Finland? And when we talk about these large acquisitions, is it possible, for example, to cooperate, whether it is in the Army or in these different forms of replacement of the Hornet fighters? Moreover, when next year we will be in 12 military crisis management operations: would it be better to concentrate on just a few of them so few that we would not be in so many — whether they were 12 or 13 — so what would be the result? And then, when we talk about Afghanistan: if everyone leaves now, what is the future of Afghanistan at the end of the day?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u308	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for their attitude towards this EU arms directive. For the sake of overall defence and also for other interests, it is extremely important that it is rejected with determination. Of course, in all situations it is important that we maintain our credible defence capacity and that our situation is such that this credible defence does not become a credible defence under any circumstances. In this sense, the world has changed very quickly. The representative of the plant raised these cyber threats and cybersecurity very well in his question, and I myself would have asked the minister how you intend to ensure that our cyber defence capabilities remain in this world change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u309	Madam President! The defence of Finland is based on a strong reserve army. It is good that the budget has taken this into account, for example, by supporting voluntary defence. But it is also important to maintain these land areas where voluntary national defence can be exercised by the state. This applies, among other things, to shooting ranges. What is the Minister's position on the conservation of these land? Without these areas, reservist training is very difficult. However, not all these troops are in the vicinity of the garrison.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u310	Two more replies, Mr Jarva, Mrs Wallinheimo, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u311	Mr President! In addition to the refresher exercises, we have the opportunity for reserve officers and reservists to engage in training and shooting activities that have played a very important role in maintaining defence skills and in maintaining defence capability. Minister, has the Ministry explained what an alternative solution would be if Finland did not obtain an exemption from the Arms Directive, even because of its special defence system? I would also have repeated my question about this increase in the military retirement age: how has this change been taken into account in the Ministry? This also applies to professional border soldiers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u312	Madam President! The Arms Directive would indeed have a negative impact on voluntary defence if it goes through as the Commission and many other countries want it to. Of course, the great committee will give us a firm position, which will certainly make it easier for Minister Orpo to negotiate. You said it was time to make a difference. For Finland, however, this is more a question of defence policy than an issue of internal security. I would like to ask: have you spoken to colleagues in Europe, and how do they respond precisely to this issue, which is extremely important in terms of the Finnish will to defend the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u313	Then, Minister Niinistö's reply, no more than five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u314	Madam President! I will try to answer as many questions as possible. During the last round, Mr Pelkonen asked about the Air Force's education debt. That is true, and it is largely due to the fact that there have been more tasks in the area of the supervision of territorial integrity recently, and if this continues next year, then we should do the same as this year: the additional budget this autumn gave more 100 hours of flight, training flight hours, to the Air Force — that amounted to EUR 900000. Representative Savola asked about the funding of the National Defence Training Association or voluntary defence, as did so many other representatives. I fully agree that every year this kind of blubbering should not be done, and at last it should be taken into account at the Ministry of Finance. As regards the Arms Directive, many Members also asked how we can influence this issue and what we will do if the Arms Directive comes into force anyway. Well, it's really time to make a difference. I'll be in Brussels with the Home Secretary Orpo. We strive to take Finland's position forward, to tell us what the Finnish defence solution is and why it is important that we have a voluntary defence that works. But if this arms directive goes through anyway, I will suggest that it is not implemented. There are also more questions about the military retirement age. I'm afraid that's all I can tell you. It happened, this retirement age increase, contrary to the wishes of the defence administration, so we are working on a study of what is being done about this. It is clear that, in this situation, there is no room for the creation of 600 new posts, i.e. EUR 40 million in additional costs for the defence administration, so another creative solution must be found. Mr Haavisto asked about the development of European defence cooperation following the French request for assistance. We can see where it leads, but this is an interesting exercise for Finland, what help is available when you ask for it. Mr Terho asked about the Army, and it is now precisely the turn of the Army during this parliamentary term. We have deficiencies in air protection, anti-tank control, communications and management systems, and quite concretely in ammunition. This is largely due to major cuts in the defence budget during the last parliamentary term, which prevented the vital development of the Army. Mr Salolainen asked — and there was someone else who asked — about cooperation between Finland and Sweden, about deepening it. At the moment, this cooperation is unquestionably peacetime cooperation, but it does not rule out the possibility that we will not be able to cooperate during the crisis, and this is precisely the central motivation behind Finland's development of this cooperation. We have the capacity to do so, and we have the resources to do so, so let the train just move on. I believe that progress is on a solid basis. There were more than one crisis management issue. They asked me if I had turned my coat around on crisis management. This is not the case; it is the government's line, and it has never been defined that Finland does not participate in crisis management with 90 people. It is just that it is difficult to predict the situation in the world, so these things simply have to be financed with an additional budget. These things are simply hard to predict. Mr Mattila asked a question about the supplementary police system. My proposal has been well received at the Ministry of the Interior, and perhaps something will come out of it, because the military police reserve would be very useful if the police were to build up their own reserve for crisis situations. Mr Kivelä asked about the possible fatigue of the Defence Forces staff, and admittedly — I have been around the garrison quite a bit over the past six months, and I have always asked the representatives of the personnel organisations about the situation — this has also come up. The Defence Forces reform reduced the number of Defence Forces to 2,000, and the same work is done with a smaller number of personnel, and at the same time this year the number of refresher exercises was raised to a higher level than it has been in previous years, so that it has undeniably been this fascination. But hopefully next year will be easier when the reform has fallen into place, as it were, and there is better experience in organising refresher exercises. Representative Heinäluoma referred to separate funding for the future strategic acquisition of the Air Force and also referred to the number of machines. However, no number of fighter planes has yet been defined. There is now a request for information and the solution remains with the next government. And let us hope, like Mr Kaikkonen, that this great strategic acquisition — not forgetting the Navy Fleet 2020 project — will be found in the future Parliament, in the future government, because defence is a common cause. I believe that there is an opportunity to seek this consensus both in the preparation of the foreign and security policy report and in the preparation of the defence report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u315	The discussion on Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u316	Mr President! Now we finally have a government that has taken note of the fact that: In previous years, the Defence Forces have been driven down with the right amount of work. For once, we see a different direction and an increase in appropriations. We are significantly behind what is a real need in the procurement of materials. Still, some people want to cut out of this. That is something I cannot understand when, rather, we should find even more money than budgeted to maintain a credible defence capability. But in this economic situation, of course, that is not possible. Finnish defence is based on a strong reserve. It is good that the budget has taken this into account, for example, by supporting voluntary defence and by increasing refresher exercises. This is a very worthy defence policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u317	Mr President! The budget for the Ministry of Defence's administrative sector is proposed to be just under 2.9 billion, which is approximately EUR 227 million more than last year. The credibility of Finland's own national defence must be ensured. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, necessary increases in appropriations are being made, both in operating expenditure and in material procurement. During the last government term, savings were made, which are at risk of Finland’s defence capability being depleted. The defence power reform was largely financed at the expense of defence equipment procurement and by reducing its activities. The cuts also accumulated maintenance and training debts. The Defence Forces have been able to restore the level of activity this year and can be maintained in the coming year. The committee has found it problematic that operational expenditure should be financed at the expense of new acquisitions. Material procurement must account for about one third of the defence budget to maintain a credible defence capability. While the budget item review seems to represent only 22% of all military defence assets, virtually all spare parts and system maintenance, program updates, and other ammunition are covered by operational expenditure. This is a budgetary technical matter and, as Minister Niinistö also mentioned, it makes it difficult to understand the whole. The cost of the Defence Forces' material development 2016 order mandate is scheduled for 2016–20. The challenge is the adequacy of funding for the Defence Forces' upcoming major material investments, such as the Fleet 2020 project and the replacement of the Hornet fighters. These contracts cannot be included in the normal procurement budget but require separate funding. It is good that the committee too considers separate funding to be necessary. The rapid change in the operating environment requires a higher capability of the Defence Forces. Adequate funding is needed to improve preparedness. Urgent measures are required in particular to increase the rapid response capability of the Army and to develop cyber defence capabilities. Finland's geostrategic position at the military union border and as a neighbour of the great power must be taken into account in the development of defence. The primary objective of maintaining Finland’s defence capability is to create a preventive threshold for the use and threat of military force and the ability to combat possible attacks on our country. Voluntary defence and self-determination are cost-effective support and complement to the Finnish defence system and one of the pillars of our defence now and in the future. At the National Defence Training Association military training was provided in 2015 for some 80,000 days to 28000 reservists. Mr President! According to the Government Programme Finland will reduce its participation in military peacekeeping operations by focusing on the most relevant and effective operations for Finland. As a result, the need for appropriations will be gradually reduced from 2016. UNIFIL mission in Lebanon accounts for almost half of the appropriations for this item. The next largest are Operation RS in Afghanistan and the Iraqi Training Mission. As the security situation in the world may change, any new urgent operations must be prepared as necessary. We also issued an opinion on this weapons directive. When the EU Arms Directive comes into force, it would be of considerable damage to national defence. The ban would put an end to reserve operations related to the maintenance of defence capabilities. The Directive should provide for a national derogation in order to allow for the operation of firearms related to the maintenance of the national security of a Member State, such as reserve operations. Finally, Mr President, the current crisis has even been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u318	Värderade Herr Talman! Försvarsmakten har gått igenom en stor förändringsfas under de Senaste åren. Trots att försvarsmaktsreformen var svår och omfattande så var den helt nödvändig för att kunna garantera en effektiv verksamhet. Jag äröjd med hur reformen genomfördes och med resultaten. Men nu behover försvarsmakten arbetsro. Finansieringen måste tryggas och de inbesparingar som försvarsmaktsreformen gav rucker inte. Den parliamentariska arbetsgruppen, ledd av ledamot Kanerva, som avslutade sitt arbete hästen 2014 poängterade att tillagsfinansiering behövs för att upprätthålla vår försvarskapacitet och till materielinvestingar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u319	Mr President! I welcome the proposal to increase the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence compared to the current year. The increase in appropriations is mainly due to a delay in expenditure on material purchases. The Defence Forces have been able to restore the level of activity in 2015, and according to the report this level can also be maintained in 2016. With regard to operational expenditure, a change in the operating environment requires the Defence Forces to be ready to operate. Urgent measures are required, in particular, to increase the rapid response capacity of the Army. One of the main reasons for this is the crisis in Ukraine. It shall be ensured that the response times meet the requirements of the operating environment. Mr President! Another urgent measure is the development of cyber defence capabilities. Finnish websites and information networks must be protected against cyber attacks, and cyber attack and cyber war are exactly what we will be afraid of in the future, and it must be targeted and targeted, resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u320	Mr President! Despite its small size, the Ministry of Defence's section is an extremely important section for our country. The budget is just under EUR 3 billion, which is, however, a fairly modest figure for a country of this size. Even if the increase comes to the appropriations, it should be remembered that EUR 227 million of this appropriation will go to earlier procurements, which will have to be financed from next year's budget. These are equipment purchases which are essential for defence and credibility. Mr President! I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence is 1.37% of our country's gross domestic product, which is a very small and modest figure. But one might say that The Defence Forces are doing very good and high-quality work in this country with very small appropriations. One can say that the output-input relationship in our country is very good in this regard. Even the Defence Forces have been through this spending cut so far in the state administration, and the Ministry of Defence, as the only Ministry of Defence, has actually implemented 100% of the savings provided. Of this, the people and the Defence Forces of the Ministry of Defence should be commended for their good work. Savings were made, as is the case with the soldiers, precisely and in accordance with the task assigned. The refresher exercises will be returned next year, and have already been restored this year, to the level required by the level of credible defence. That means, of course, that the Ground Forces practice a sufficient number of off-road days per reserve. Air Force flight hours and the related training of field personnel and other Air Force personnel have reached the required level, and offshore refresher exercises, measured on a day-a-day basis, have also been restored to a good level. It must be borne in mind that there are three things that are extremely important for the defence of a small country: the will to defend the country, the good equipment and, above all, the training needed to ensure that the defence forces and the reservists and conscripts receive adequate training for the tasks assigned. After all, the credibility of the defence budget can be affected in this house, but the will to defend the country is a matter for the Finns themselves. Parliament gives the framework for it, and then this other work will be done in that field either in the various operations of the reserve or in the garrison by soldiers. This is all in the background of the parliamentary task force, which, according to the report, will invest EUR 50 million in material procurement next year. The amount is small in view of the fact that today's major problem for the Finnish State is the huge annual increase in the price of defence equipment purchases. The better the technology, the bigger the rise. And we all know, Mr President, that the forthcoming acquisition of new air force fighters does not, of course, apply to these spending appropriations. It must be financed separately, but it will be the largest acquisition in the history of the Finnish Defence Forces. The more modern technology we acquire, the more it costs. The price increase is not 1 % or 2 % per year; it can be 10 % per year. It's so high-tech. Material procurement now accounts for 22% of the budget, although it should be 30% for the credibility and functionality of the equipment. This is where we still have some catching up to do. The Committee on Finance rightly draws attention in its report to the fact that Finland's own armaments production is at a reasonable level, but it is extremely important to maintain it in the future. Even today, it is important that, even in times of crisis, we are able to safeguard our army's ability to operate with our own production, which is extremely important. It must always be remembered that if a crisis period strikes this country or the world, then the help of a neighbour, cooperation assistance from partners may not be taken for granted. Here too, Mr President, we can say that when we keep our own country in order and are able to act independently, we will be able to manage the years ahead much better than if we were dependent on others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u321	Mr President! The members of the Committee on Defence have well explained this overall situation in the Ministry of Defence's administrative sector. So I will raise just a few details in relation to this budget. I very much regret that the budget for crisis management has been reduced, which is why the Greens are proposing an increase of EUR 5 million in the budget initiative. We know that the need for crisis management in the world will not be reduced, on the contrary, and although the government has said that additional budgets can then be used to accompany these, I think it is a bad practice for amending budgets to deal with things that could be directly in the budget, because it makes it difficult to monitor costs and make the economy more transparent. Since we are a responsible party, we tried to find this money inside the administration, and so we present it on the material side, because it is very difficult to take it out of the expenditures so that we do not compromise these amounts of refresher training. The second point is that large purchases are coming this season: the fleet 2020 and then next season the fighter acquisitions, which were already being prepared. It is important that we make the most of our own industry in this area, so that, in connection with these procurements, jobs remain in Finland as well. The third point is the reform of the defence regime, which took place last season. I think it was important, and I agree with Mr Hoskonen's words of thanks that the Defence Forces really did get it done and that they were able to dig up these savings. However, it is regrettable that a great deal of these savings are now going into the other pocket of the state, that is, Senate property, and there should be a more sustainable solution to this. Finally, it is good that more money was given to defence organisations. I hope that in other administrative areas too the drastic cuts in organisations, such as development cooperation, will be restored.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u322	Mr President! The Defence Forces have been subjected to major cuts in the past, and this development has threatened to take the development of our defence capabilities in the wrong direction. In this world situation, it is important that the Sipilä Government and Parliament increase the Defence Forces' budgets in a sustainable way. The training of military personnel should not be compromised, and now we can also make up-to-date updates to the procurement of materials, so that the equipment of our troops is better suited to today's needs. The number of refresher exercises will continue to be kept at an appropriate level. With regard to the maintenance of Reserves' expertise and the continuity of voluntary defence, it is essential that adequate funding is still provided for activities established by the National Defence Training Association. However, an annual concession between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the Parliament on a reasonable budget for the MPK should be established and given the right to act as a tradition and to this comprehensive and effective national defence training organisation in the country as a whole. Mr President! In addition to refresher exercises, the possibility of voluntary training and self-sustaining shooting training has been and will be an important part of our defence capability. In this context, this Arms Directive, which is now being planned in the EU, is an inefficient way that will not reduce terrorist acts because these real problems will not be addressed in this way of the Arms Directive. If this exception is not granted to Finland, it is these training opportunities within our system, which is based on general military duty and the fact that the reservists themselves actively practice and maintain their own defence skills, will become significantly more difficult. Our defence system, which is based on general military duty, is effective and inexpensive, and this must not be jeopardised. Mr President! In the context of an increase in the retirement age, when all parties have successfully taken this pension reform forward — and rightly so — this reform will also lead to an increase in the retirement age of professional soldiers. However, in order to ensure a sufficient number of wartimes, the government must ensure that the reserve deficit is bridged with this change. Mr President! With regard to military defence and the fact that our country is prepared, if necessary, for times of crisis and possible war situations, we must also ensure security of supply for these military defence skills, material supplies and so on. This has been a very unfortunate development in recent years, even decades. At the moment, for example, our food production situation is such that self-sufficiency has been falling all the time, and in this uncertain world situation, we should do everything we can to ensure that, if, for example, there is a situation at the borders where different types of food are more difficult to obtain, then the current situation, which is not good, must be addressed. The bioeconomy, which the government is now investing in, is also linked to food production and food production, including processing, and this needs to be increased and we need to have new entrepreneurs in this sector. Mr President! I would also like to raise one important point earlier, even today, about the idea that it would be good for us to offer young people future invitations, to which women would also be invited in the future, and to bring up national defence training for them as well. This would also be part of the future implementation of the Youth Guarantee by giving young people both access to national defence training activities and also through their life situation in education, working life
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u323	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the good work done by the parliamentary study group, whose report provides for an increase in the defence budget. General military service is a central part of Finland's defence. General military service has strong support for both the military, the government and the people. The defence of our country is made possible by general military service and a well-trained reserve. Reservists' skills are maintained through voluntary training, but also through refresher exercises and the National Defence Training Association. Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the number of refresher exercises in the reserve is considered sufficient. The conditions for voluntary exercises and self-training of the reserve are also secured. Mr President! Voluntary defence plays an important role in Finnish defence systems. This was also said by the committee. The activities of national defence organisations strengthen the performance of the reserve and the general will to defend the country. The committee therefore proposes EUR 400000 to support defence organisations. In recent years, the National Defence Training Association MPK has also located a deficit in the Defence Forces’ refresher exercises. The committee considered it necessary to continue to make use of this cost-effective activity. The economic conditions of the MPK must continue to be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u324	Madam President! The Defence Forces face one of the biggest material acquisitions in their history. Without these investments, the basic choices of our defence would require a reassessment. The funding decided by the parliamentary group is not sufficient to finance major performance projects. The Navy is facing the Fleet 2020 project, which aims to replace the obsolete naval battleships in the 2020s. The order mandate of the fleet 2020 project of approximately EUR 1 billion is included in the spending limits decision, but in addition to this, the planned life cycle of the Air Force Hornet fleet will end by the end of next decade. Since the procurement process extends beyond the parliamentary term, it is appropriate to ask the government how the reform of the Air Force equipment and its planned funding will be carried out in due course. This requires a parliamentary vision. Secondly, I would like to highlight the importance of a trained reserve in the performance of the Defence Forces' tasks. From the point of view of defence capabilities, it is not only the number of conscripts and the reserve but also the duration and level of training they receive. In connection with the reform of the Defence Forces, the reserve refresher training appropriations were cut. In 2014, the joint will of the parliamentary working group was to increase the level of appropriations. There has been an improvement this year. It is of paramount importance that the level of the current year should also be maintained in the following years throughout the spending limits period. The Government proposed a reduction of some EUR 400000 in the amount allocated to support voluntary defence work. The biggest effect of the surgery would have been the operation of the National Defense Training Association. The National Defence Training Association has trained 11,000 reserve personnel and 18000 reserve personnel per year through training commissioned by the Defence Forces. The training provided by the National Defence Training Association is very important to complement the expertise of the reservists as an activity supporting refresher exercises. Fortunately, the government canceled the operation. Mr President! The maintenance of the trained reserve has also been subject to other pressures outside the budget reduction this autumn. One of these is the Commission's proposal for a Arms Directive, which, among other things, proposes that the acquisition and possession of firearms manufactured for civil use, which are self-charged, should also be prohibited if they are deactivated by individuals. In its opinion, the Committee on Defence stated that such a ban, when it came into force, would put an end to the reserve activities of Finland's current self-contained and self-costed defence capability. This in turn would significantly undermine the credibility of Finnish defence in a situation where the change in the security environment underlines the importance of expertise and preparedness. Shooting skills are an important part of the functioning of the Finnish reserve. In addition to the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Administrative Committee gave a very negative assessment of the directive. It is quite problematic that the proposal for a directive does not take into account in any way the specific features of Finland regarding the importance of voluntary defence and reservist activities as part of our defence solution. Finland should now be very active at EU level in seeking similar-minded partners and being heard. According to the opinion of the EU Affairs Department of the Prime Minister's Office, derogations per Member State are very rare in EU legislation. Now, our ministers must influence the drafting of the directive to make a general exception to the directive for the defence of all Member States, or, alternatively, to abolish the ban altogether. I would stress that this is the common will of the parliamentary committees and therefore of the Finnish parties. The SDP also proposes an increase in crisis management appropriations in its own option.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u325	Madam President! The Finnish army's equipment is outdated and weakens our credible defence quickly. Between 2012 and 2014, the Defence Administration carried out a comprehensive defence force reform aimed at ensuring Finland’s defence capability and achieving permanent cost savings. The reform adapted the Defence Forces to decreasing age groups and increasing cost pressures. At the same time, however, the environment in Europe has changed dramatically and the debate on whether Finland’s defence is still credible has begun. The Committee on Finance draws attention to the fact that the defence power reform was largely financed at the expense of defence equipment procurement and by reducing its activities. The committee finds it problematic that operational expenditure should be financed at the expense of new acquisitions. In the long term, this will lead to even greater investment when the equipment is, so to speak, falling apart. Mr President! Material procurement accounts for only about 22% of the proposed military defence budget. In the view of the committee, this level cannot be considered sufficient to enable the wartime forces to be equipped in the appropriate manner when the equipment expires. Finland has the longest border in Europe with Russia, our neighbour, and the European Union also expects Finland to have a credible defence at this border.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u326	Madam President! Finland must have credible defence forces. Today, the Minister of Defence told us that, at the moment and in the near future, there will be a renewal of the Army's equipment. The fleet will then enter the reform with this Fleet 2020 project. The latest is the renewal of the Finnish Hornet equipment, which also starts to reach the end of its path. Finland once joined the so-called Ottawa Convention, which banned the use and manufacture of landmines. This was a completely absurd decision. Landmines were an important part of the Finnish army’s defence capability. I would have liked to ask the Minister for Defence: have we found equipment to replace landmines yet? I hope so, or at least we'll find it soon enough. Otherwise, Finland’s defence may be one step closer to credibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u327	Mr President! Mr Jarva and Mr Kari have just raised the issue of the arms directive that was planned in the EU. This Directive would have a significant impact on the performance of the Defence Forces if it were implemented. The defence of our country is based on a general military duty and a reserve army, and the Defence Forces do not – and probably will not have – have sufficient resources to maintain the basic skills of the reserve. The activities are therefore very much based on voluntary training, and one of the most important basic skills is good shooting skills. This has been widely maintained among the reservists by practicing on their own equipment, at their own time and at their own expense. Since year after year, shooting activities have been a key and popular form of action among reserve systems and activities, and it is therefore essential that the special features of Finnish defence are taken into account in the EU when dealing with this directive that the credibility of our defence is maintained in the future. As a second point, I would like to briefly point out that I attach great importance to this additional allocation of EUR 400000 from the Committee on Finance to the National Defence Training Association (MPK). This appropriation is intended to cover the cost-effective strengthening of the performance of the reserve and the will to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u328	Madam President! Between 2012 and 2014, the Defence Administration carried out a comprehensive defence power reform. The aim of the reform was to ensure Finland’s defence capability and to achieve permanent cost savings. This reform also abolished several garrisons, such as the Kontioranta garrison in North Karelia. The reform adapted the Defence Forces to the decreasing age groups and increasing cost pressures. I am very pleased that: In 2015, the Defence Forces have been able to restore the level of activity to the level required for the task and the production of high-performance forces. I believe that this level can also be maintained next year. It is also very positive that, in line with the report of the Parliamentary Study Group, EUR 50 million has been made available for defence procurement. It is clear that in the longer term, the challenge will be the adequacy of funding for the Defence Forces' forthcoming major material investments, such as the Fleet 2020 project and the replacement of the Hornet fighters. These contracts cannot be included in the normal procurement budget but require separate funding, as Mr Kanerva said in his introductory speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u329	Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u330	Madam President! The development of next year's transport budget has been strongly guided by the transport policy guidelines of the parliamentary corrective debt working group last season. In next year's budget, the unanimous views of the parliamentary group will be taken from the paper of the report to the ground, roads, bridges and tracks. The committee welcomes the fact that reducing the transport network repair debt is one of the government's key projects. This is a very important and necessary investment in the smooth and safe operation of transport. We will start next year with additional funding of EUR 100 million, and during the spending limits period, the correction debt will begin to wane when almost EUR 1 billion more is spent on basic bus maintenance than in the past. The Committee stresses the need for small regional investment to make more efficient use of the existing transport infrastructure. Funding for basic infrastructure management will be increased partly at the expense of new development projects. According to the budget plan, only one new development project will be launched next year, the development of the Helsinki railway yard costing EUR 60 million. In addition to basic infrastructure management, the Committee stresses the importance of development projects as drivers of economic growth, since the functioning of the transport network has a key impact on the competitiveness of industry and on decisions on business investment. The committee is concerned that, in the light of the decisions taken, the government's investments are becoming low due to the weak economic situation. Like the parliamentary working group, the Committee attaches great importance to the development of new financing models and stresses that funding models should promote long-term solutions and the development of the transport network even in times of tight economic conditions. It is important that the new funding models are urgently examined and tried out without prejudice. In order to highlight the importance of assessing and piloting financial models and of using EU funding, the committee has added a proposal for a statement with the same content to its report 4. Mr President! The Committee on Finance has noted the current debate on road safety and considers it necessary to launch a separate theme project to improve road safety. The theme of the project would be the implementation of small projects of regional importance that contribute to road safety, such as the improvement of light transport routes, underpasses and connection arrangements. According to the budgetary plan, additional funding of EUR 30 million will be allocated to private road grants between 2017 and 2019. The Committee also welcomes the funding of EUR 8 million for private transport next year, since private roads will play a key role in the operating conditions of forestry and bioeconomy, as well as in the area of permanent and leisure-time housing. The purchase of rail services will be reduced by EUR 13.5 million next year for low passenger numbers on routes and services. According to a report received by the committee, the total replacement of train services to be completely discontinued is being created without State aid on the basis of market-based bus transport. Y-train traffic between Helsinki and Siuntio will continue as an experiment organised by HSL. Mr President! A few words on the increase in appropriations made by the committee. There are over 500 vulnerable bridges in Finland, whose weight limits prolong heavy-duty transport journeys and reduce the competitiveness of the business community. The committee will add EUR 1400000 to the budget for the repair of four weight restricted bridges in Eura, Kärkölä, Jämsä and Orimatla. The committee adds EUR 150000 to the expenditure related to changes in the operating concept of an airport owned by the Seinäjoen Rengonharju Foundation for the construction and maintenance of aerodromes. The Committee on Finance has already pointed out in its report the importance of the rehabilitation of the Kimola Canal for tourism and business in East Hame and Kymenlaakso in the last two years. The renovation of the canal opens a water road connection from Kouvola to Viitasaari through Päijänne. The committee considers the rehabilitation of the channel to be justified in terms of regional economic policy and employment and adds EUR 6 million to the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Mr President! The Committee notes that accessibility, smooth mobility and high-speed transport connections are increasingly important factors of success in inter-regional competition and in the development of regional structures. Transport policy solutions have a major impact on the economic and social development of the regions and on labour mobility. The Committee believes that it is important to promote inter-urban transport connections so that they gradually form ribbon-like growth corridors that build up the urban structure. Finally, I would like to thank the committee and the members of the Transport Section for their good working climate and for their cooperation in preparing the transport budget and also the Minister for Transport for their good cooperation this autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u331	Madam President! This autumn can be characterised by transport and communication policy, along with many other issues, as a work-filled, lively debate and opening up new perspectives. Transport and communications are strongly affected by the government's big policies on growth and fiscal consolidation. The promotion of digitalisation and the dismantling of standards have started rapidly. These points are reflected in the draft budget for next year. The financing of the correction debt, which will therefore amount to EUR 100 million next year, will be very much needed. This has also been stated in Parliament's statements. In addition to the budget, it is proposed to allocate EUR 5 million to the state aid for private roads and EUR 95 million to the basic infrastructure. As the section president said, projects should be targeted at small regional renovation projects, so that we can also have genuine effectiveness. Individual repairs are carefully prioritised, and this work has been done and is currently being done in traffic management in close interaction with industry. The target lists for correction debt financing will be published in early February. Investment appropriations will decrease in the coming years. This does not mean projects that have already been decided and are effectively completed. However, I believe that the Finnish transport network is not yet complete. Improvement measures are needed in many areas. Automatisation, which is fast on the road, may also require major basic improvements to the infrastructure. The need for new financing models has been seen by many, including the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on Finance, when dealing with the draft budget for next year. The Committee on Finance has also proposed a statement on this. The draft opinion also obliges the government to ensure that the projects make full use of EU funding. I fully agree with that. New financing models are needed and I will return to these in the near future. The possibilities for EU funding will also be looked at and evaluated very carefully. There is a clear common understanding in the Parliament. Transport connections are vital to our business life and to the smooth running of every day of our lives. Transport needs to be constantly reformed in order to be able to provide an adequate level of service now and in the future. Reform requires a joint effort and a wide-ranging debate. I would therefore like to thank Parliament for its attention and for its willingness to discuss and for its additional funding, particularly for the correction of bridges. The Committee on Finance stresses road safety and requires the launch of a theme project to improve road safety in 2017 on the transfer of appropriations for development projects. I fully agree with the Committee on Finance on the importance of road safety and care should be taken to ensure that the theme is carefully built and genuinely effective. On the transport policy front, the debate has been on public transport, and in particular on rail transport, when, in accordance with the Government Programme, EUR 15 million is saved from public transport appropriations per year and most of it is allocated to rail transport purchases. The budget complement approved the authorisation of a new contract for the purchase of train services, EUR 120.68 million. A good effort is being made to secure the service level of rail transport by increasing the number of compulsory train services and by using market-based bus and coach services for the year 2016. Then we will see to it that the supply of rail transport can be increased by increasing competition on the tracks. In addition, a transport-bar project has been launched to modernise public transport to meet the challenges of digitalisation, the environment and competitiveness and to ensure that services are improved for customers and citizens, businesses and individuals alike. No index check will be carried out on the level of funding for the public radio next year. The freezing of the index is justified in the light of the general economic situation, as the Committee on Transport and Communications also stated in its opinion. The parliamentary working group, which started its work at the end of the year, plays an important role in building the public service mission and funding of YLE. There will be no additional funding for broadband projects in sparsely populated areas next year, but the project will continue with unused funds from previous years. To date, 55,000 households have been made available to broadband within the framework of the project. FICORA has a strong role to play in promoting digital development, creating a competitive environment for electronic communications and promoting trust. It is essential to be able to improve the functioning and efficiency of the Agency in such a way that it is able to respond to a changing environment and demand within the framework of scarce resources. I would also like, on my own behalf, to thank the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Transport and Communications for their excellent debate and lunch.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u332	We now have the opportunity to have a debate on this subject. — Representative Jalonen begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u333	Mr President! It is very important that basic infrastructure funding is increased this period, but at the same time the fact that project funding is very small must be taken into account. This then leads again to the lack of EU funds. However, this total pot will sustain the condition of our roads, and in view of future developments with digital projects and robotic cars, these new modes of transport will also take the road, so attention will have to be paid to this in the future. But now that this digitalisation requires its own resources, the Ministry and the Minister are now monitoring the situation and responding to these needs, so what can be used to launch the projects that Finland will continue to be at the forefront of digital transport in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u334	Madam President! The use of EU funding for transport projects would be very important, especially in this economic situation where we are. New TEN-T funding can now be applied for in the 2016 and 2017 folds. Similarly, the European Investment Fund's application procedure must be able to find entities that will enable Finland to succeed in that application. During this programming period, which began in 2014, we have received only EUR 77 million, as Sweden, for example, has received almost EUR 500 million. I would like to ask the Minister: when these TEN-T subsidies are allocated to rail projects, should we form a double track structure of sufficient size for the twin track needs of our main rail network, such as that eastern Luumäki-Imatra connection, and other double track projects we have — and form a TEN-T search?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u335	Madam President! It is nice to hear and know that we now have a modern grip on ministerial leadership and also take into account the constantly changing market situation and a strong will to develop. Indeed, as we say in that report from the Transport Section of the Committee on Finance, it is important that the Finnish transport network should be developed on the one hand, taking into account road safety, on the other hand, the conditions for economic growth: that we should also create growth corridors that will contribute to Finland's growth in the future, the opportunities for our exports. This is very important. Then I come to this point, to which both the section president and the chairman of the Committee on Transport referred: we need new financial instruments. It is good that they are being developed without prejudice, because otherwise we will not be able to finance the great needs that we are now facing in view of the whole network of transport routes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u336	Mr President! We must acknowledge to the government that, after 15 years, the budget for the basic transport network will increase. For 15 years they have remained in place. They have now issued opinions on these needs of the basic road network and the Finnish Transport Agency has submitted a proposal to the Ministry. You, Minister, said that at the beginning of February there will be a decision on what the money will be spent on, and it is extremely important that it comes quickly, because we must make plans before that money can be spent. I would just like to make sure that the statements made by the expert services, the elys, are respected, that this decision will then come in February, that it will come on the basis of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u337	Mr President! A little bridge drum politics, if you don't mind. The government is known to focus on basic infrastructure management, but at the same time it has moved the construction of transport routes to municipalities. For example, Espoo has concluded an agreement with the state whereby the city commits itself to planning housing and the state participates in the construction costs of West Metro. In Keilaniemi, for example, this requires putting Ring One in the tunnel due to traffic noise. In practice, Ring One will have to be rebuilt from a distance of 900 metres. However, the state is in no hurry or money to do anything about it, so Espoo has to build the state Ring one with its own money. However, Espoo cannot decide for itself how it is to be Ring One is built; because it is a state road, the demands come from the Ely Centre. And once the municipality has been made a payment, there will certainly be enough of those demands. 900 metres of road costs EUR 90 million. My question is: Is this becoming a new way of working? Do municipalities other than Espoo have to pay for the state roads in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u338	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the government for allocating the necessary correction appropriations to basic infrastructure management, which, of course, should have been done a long time ago. But it is a good thing that we are now taking a step in the right direction, because this bioeconomy, if we are to reap any benefits from it, already requires that the basic route is in order. But of course we also need to repair the network, maritime transport must be in order and so on. I would have asked the Minister once again: when there was an intermediate question about transport policy in that autumn and I raised the question of whether we could set up a parliamentary working party that would jointly consider the way in which public transport is organised and developed, because that is something that, regardless of the government or opposition party, must be developed for every parliamentary term and all the time, I would like to see an institution across the party boundaries, a parliamentary working party of some kind. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u339	Mr President, värderade talman! Det är bra att man har sökt lösningar för den raus minskade köptrafiken, och på många platter har man också hitt det. Jag är också glad för att den ox regeringen satsar på basväghållningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u340	Mr President! After all, Finland is a country of long distances and sparsely populated areas, and for us, if anyone, the infrastructure — both roads and railways — is extremely important. Against that background, it is very good that the government has now found a way to break the development with which our basic infrastructure is falling apart. This EUR 600 million sacrifice is extremely important. At the same time, I commend the fact that solutions have also been found to finance private roads, because the lower road network is very important from the point of view of the bioeconomy. However, our natural resources are all over Finland. They are not by any highways, and therefore solutions must be found that can be made to operate there too, so that the raw materials of the bioeconomy can be processed, as the government is seeking to do to a large extent. The committee has tabled a proposal for a statement 4, which the Minister has already rightly commented on here, and I would now be interested in what this timetable might be, because there could then be room for manoeuvre so that perhaps a little more could be done to correct the infraa. Immediately important things, the balanced development of Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u341	Madam President! Restoration debt is a significant risk, and reducing it is one of the government's top projects. During the spending limits period, EUR 600 million more is to be spent on basic bus maintenance. This is a significant change of direction, by which we take into account long distances from Finland. The report by the Committee on Finance has on several points raised the issue of the lower road network and its condition. An important part of this appropriation should be devoted to the repair of these roads. I hope the Minister agrees with me on this. In previous years, attempts have been made to push the Kimola Canal project forward, but unfortunately there is no common will. Now, however, government parties have agreed to finance 6 million, so this project, which is important to Järvi-Suomen tourism and business, will finally be launched.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u342	Madam President! In such difficult economic times, we should also thank the Minister and the whole section for the lack of funding for island transport. And when those private roads have already been mentioned in the previous speech, it should be pointed out that they are not only related to the management of wood but also to island connections. I have read in the Turun Sanomat that the minister is in favour of the bridge between Parainen and Naivo, and it has been a matter of lobbying for us in the province for a long time, that we can get a fixed connection there, and when we have already talked about these new innovative financing models, I would encourage the minister to apply for the options to obtain a service agreement there. And when we have examples of such financing models, such as the Four-way Lahti and the Turku-Helsinki motorway, then just get on the plane, and it'll be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u343	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the government for the pot you are investing in this basic infrastructure. I sincerely hope that these millions will be spent on regions and regions which will benefit as much as possible in the long and short term in terms of the vitality and development of the regions. So here is all the wisdom for the representatives of the government parties and the section and for all the representatives who work with this. I would also like to thank the Ministry for its willingness to commit and study this dismantling of standards and bureaucracy. That is one of the top priorities of the government, and certainly there is work to be done in this area of our section too, but it must only be done carefully after careful preparation. Mine in this section is forgetting the network, which means that only and only one new investment project, the functional improvement of the Helsinki railway yard, is now on the list. And on the other hand, I still cannot understand this savings in VR's purchasing services and the fact that for Yle, the preparation of parliamentary work is not being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u344	Mr President! Undoubtedly, one of the most remarkable transport policy solutions this autumn has been the decision to abolish the Y train — a train used daily by thousands of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u345	Madam President! In fact, I will continue with this train traffic, where Mrs Feldt-Ranta left off. I have also been left unclear as to what is happening now with the train traffic in Eastern Finland. This opinion clearly states that passenger traffic will end on the Joensuu-Nurmes, Joensuu-Varkaus, including Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-SäinäjokijaTampere-Haapamäki-Keuruo. However, there has also been information that these contacts will be maintained for at least the next year and that a solution will be found, but nothing is said about this in this book. I would like to see clarification now, and I would also like you to understand that it is a big mistake if we stop our transversal train traffic. The cross-sectional connections are weak anyway. On the other hand, rail and transversal traffic should be developed specifically rather than weakened and, possibly, cut off on buses.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u346	Mr President! In order to make progress in digitalization, communications must be in order. Working online connections are the basic service of the 21st century. The Government has promised that the Broadband for All 2015 project will continue next year with saved funds. In 2016, however, fixed broadband will not be available everywhere. My question is: will the Ministry prepare an important and necessary follow-up project for the end of next year? Broadband for all 2015 projects? Plus, I'm asking you about vt 4. The most important road project in Northern Finland, i.e. improving the number 4 between Oulu and Kemi, is not included in next year's budget, although it is part of the TEN-T network and everyone recognises the need for improvement. So I would like to ask: is there still going to be any project money during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u347	Värderade fru talman! It is great that there is a will to develop, and we are looking forward to how this digitalisation becomes a reality. However, I would like to talk about train cuts. Reference was made here, when justified, not to the strategic vision of the future of rail transport, but once again to the mechanical record of the government programme on the savings of EUR 15 million and how it should be implemented in one way or another. There was also a record in the Government Programme that the obligations of municipalities were not increased. Well, that's what we do in practice. At the request of the Ministry, the siunt, which is most concerned, began negotiations with HSL. This was a negotiation, and then Siuntio was criticised for the direction of the ministry a few months later. Now, however, they have some sort of pre-contractual agreement to justify their remaining quarter of the traffic. They get it by paying a few shifts in the direction of Helsinki, but not even the first shift.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u348	Madam President! I will pay attention, in the same way as previous speakers, to this train traffic. The Minister has given us a very positive view of this between Tampere and Haapamäki, that we should take time to look at how we will compete on these routes, and before that, we would not interrupt rail transport. Now such a big question is the competition methods. One debate has also emerged that VR must clearly separate the vehicle company. Now, on VR’s side, it seems that there was a desire to reduce equipment or even destroy equipment. Evidently, though, the direction has given little command that such a thing should not be done and would be such disfellowshipping. But the other thing, of course, is how many trains there can be on the tracks. So it would have to be quite clear about these rules of the game before we can even open the debate on competition. How are these different rules of competition going?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u349	Madam President! In the previous debate, the question was whether the inter-optimal issues of the opposition had any effect. The issue of pensioners had the effect that the government had to cancel the decision. On the question of traffic distance — was it the case that just a moment earlier the Minister had given instructions that this duty to buy traffic should be increased, that is to say now the concern expressed about the opposition was taken into account? But the real bomb, Mr President, is if the Minister can get through his plan to compete with HSL and the major urban regions. For example, Savi Rihtniemi, HRL's joint-owned CEO, has said that this will have very far-sighted effects. Hundreds of millions of investments have been made here and their funding is at risk. No more investments will be made. And while the correction debt is now being improved, the overall level of investment in transport projects will be lower for this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u350	Madam President! You always have to make choices. However, investment is needed to boost economic growth and better employment. And once the government has taken the bioeconomy as its top priority, it will increase predictability and the many different investment plans that exist in different parts of the kingdom will be made possible by creating expectations that will enable companies to believe that the state will be able to maintain transport routes throughout the country. I am sure that this will serve the whole, and now it is precisely in these areas. Therefore, the implementation of this EUR 600 million for the maintenance of basic maintenance will in future produce results that will then ensure employment and the economy. It is therefore appropriate to pay tribute to the Minister and the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u351	Madam President! Well, first of all, two thanks. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Government for the fact that, in line with the parliamentary working group, this basic infrastructure is now being invested in. The second thanks come from the honest recognition of government parties that this development will then take place at the expense of development funds. Normally, the Committee on Transport and the Section for Transport have also been very much in agreement and shared their views on transport. The government seems to have faith in market-based competition. Reform policy has already been seen in the case of rail and postal transport, and next year we will see it in the case of reforms in road transport and passenger and freight transport. This involves concerns that, due to market concentration and distortion, the narrowing of governance and coordination is in sight. Does the Ministry have sufficient resources for coordination to keep the whole of Finland on the road?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u352	Madam President! Yes, at the moment, we are experiencing an historic turnaround in Finnish transport policy. These government investments in digitalisation are visible and hopefully begin to have a rapid impact on the transport sector. And the second is that now we are really going to pay off the repair debt. At least it will not increase, apparently some reduction in this period, the EUR 8.4 billion correction debt, of which 600 million is now being reduced. This is a truly significant change in transport policy. Mr President! I wonder, and I ask the Minister if you have any information as to why Sweden has already received 472 million in the short term but only 77 million in Finland. Did our last government do something wrong when this happened?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u353	Representatives Jokinen, Taavitsainen and Karimäki, and then the Minister responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u354	Madam President! Tourism is currently one of the most developing economic trends in the world, and at present Finland is a global underachiever in tourism. Only about 2.5 to 2.7% of Finland's GDP comes from tourism, and in the world it is more than 5%. Transport connections are very important for promoting tourism, and that is why, for example, the Committee on Finance has added the Kimola Canal in order to promote inland tourism. At present, the security situation in Europe, the security situation in continental Europe, is such that tourists from Asia, among other things, are wondering if they would dare to go to France or traditional city resorts like this, and that is why the government should now find the kind of tourism marketing mode that would offer Finnish domestic tourism abroad. Tourism is also an export activity. I ask the Minister how cooperation between ministries works within the government to promote tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u355	Madam President! Good Minister! I believe that, especially in times of recession, society must support employment and maintain the domestic market, and investment in these is one of the best ways. And also if you think about regional policy, maintaining transport connections is the best and the best thing for us in the provinces. These TEN-T funds from the EU have already been mentioned here: at the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, we have been told that these have now been only 16 million for Finland, while at the same time the Baltic countries receive hundreds of millions, the same Denmark. In other words, very large money goes beyond our borders, and I would have asked the Minister if you had any information, why this is happening and how we could do better in the future, because we do, however, have a very large number of such projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u356	Madam President! I am pleased that the work of the corrective debt working group on the parliamentary network has been taken seriously and that the corridors are being put in place. Especially now that a historic climate agreement has been reached in Paris, the profitability of rail transport will increase over the years, and rail transport in particular is now being weakened by the poor and degraded condition of the railways. It slows down trains at the shoreline, for example, where the Y train operates. It has been good to hear that some of these closures have been restored. Although Y-train traffic — thanks to the actions of municipalities and HSL — has now been maintained at the minimum level, it is important that the former volume be recovered as soon as possible. It is important for the residents of the region and for people and working life. And one thing is just the refurbishment of the shore tracks and the bypass tracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u357	Minister Berner, three minutes, and then we'll continue this debate. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u358	Mr President! The correction debt is indeed a significant investment, and its solutions will be made public in January. The reason why this is a small gap when the Ely Centres have made their own assessments has been that we have also wanted to give the opportunity to all business organisations who have been willing to express their own needs, and this summary will be available in mid-January. The intention is for decisions to be taken precisely on the basis of the needs of customers, the business community and then the citizens, and for that purpose we will have sufficient consultation with the parties involved. Financial models are a fundamental need. We need investment, we need new projects, and we need long-term project plans for more than tens of years. Finland must also play a more active role in the projects of the Arctic region and then those regions that connect Finland to Europe, and this requires that our internal network is in better shape. Our projects have not received sufficient own funding so that we have been able to obtain adequate contributions from the EU or from the TEN-T. Now we are working hard to build the financing models, we are making sure that we make good applications for TEN-T and that we are allowed to be part of the EU's financial instruments. I am aware that it is very important that we get new investments going. Finland has been involved in the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement, which will also make historical demands for the development of transport. It is all the more important that we genuinely get more functionality and more capacity and also more services for public transport. This means that we must develop the transport system, ensure that there is also an interest in entrepreneurs to act and to provide a service that enables them to contribute to investment in transport and the development of transport systems. My objective and will status is that, at the moment, when we have between 5% and 6% of passenger traffic on the rails, we will be able to reach 10% in some years' time. But it requires that we get better supply and that we get competition for rail transport, so that our network can also be used more widely. I have said that the conditions for opening up rail competition are in March, and that is exactly what that means. The conditions will then exist. It also means that at this stage we will hear from the various parties, we will have different views, we will have a better understanding and then we will make a proposal on what basis this will work. Obligations are not reflected in that book, because it is not part of our budgetary framework, but in it VR drives traffic against its monopoly protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u359	Then we'll continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u360	Madam President! It is a good thing that the government is going to reject and prevent the growth of the debt to repair our basic infrastructure. An additional EUR 600 million in historical funding for three years, of which 100 million will be available for next year, will indeed be necessary. Hopefully, that additional money and other basic funding will improve the whole of Finland equally, especially in the whole of Finland's basic transport system. It is also important that sufficient appropriations are made available for the maintenance of private roads. In the future, there should be separate funding for new large transport infrastructure projects. It will not be enough to deal with the current budget. Transport is one of the most heavily regulated sectors of society, and the three-step transport arch project decided by the government, which will start next year, will be very important in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u361	Mr President! I would also like to clarify this situation with regard to the trains to be closed down. This report by the Committee on Finance states that "bus services are being created in place of train services that have been completely abolished, which is expected to be carried out on market terms without State aid". We are talking about this compulsory transport. Will there therefore be an obligation or a replacement bus service for trains to be closed down in North Karelia? That is what I want an answer to. Then another thing that I think is extremely good when we talk here about this EU TEN-T network support and the idea of starting to develop the railways. This dual track of the Imatra-Lumäki track is extremely important for the whole of Eastern Finland and an important development site in such a situation. It is also possible to achieve these EU-wide networks. I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u362	Mr President! The transport policy of the Sipilä Government and Minister Berner is actually historic in that there is a clear change in the new and better direction. This is what I want to see. Just looking at the whole transport market, that is about 40 billion, and it is not just a question of what small pieces of shrapnel this has all been divided into, but sees this as a whole — 40 billion in the transport market, which is a really big cake in our national economy. This will also give a whole new perspective to the needs of the business community, to investment in road safety, to our development projects and to repair the debt. It is really great that we are now able to implement precisely these aspects through the base proposal of the corrective debt working group and through the Government Programme so that the roads, the fairways, the tracks are in order, and perhaps a little even for the waterways. The Kimola Canal is a small issue that the committee added, but that too
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u363	Mr President! I myself am from North Karelia, and there is real concern in our province about the Government's public transport policies. Effective rail and air transport are, in fact, an absolute prerequisite for the success of the province. For example, there is already doubt that the traffic connections will be weakened, which makes it more difficult to cope with competition. There will be no international players in North Karelia if air connections are not working properly. Even though the government decided — or did it now, I am not sure — to continue VR's commitment traffic from Joensuu to Pieksämäki and Nurmes, it remained in North Karelia to question what might happen in the future. In particular, confidence has been undermined by the fact that in the province the Minister's previous plans were also read in the press and the Minister did not even come here to discuss the matter. I very much hope that the Minister will go into the situation in the provinces, because things will appear different in Helsinki than in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u364	Mr President! You mentioned, Minister, that financing models are also central to transport projects. There are a lot of transport projects and I believe they are aimed at improving the well-being and employment of the region in general. Päijät-Häme has accumulated an unsustainable amount of road network repair debt. Päijät-Häme is also a very dark area in unemployment statistics in the light of numbers. Hollola and Lahti has therefore provided an innovative financing model for the government for those who have waited years for funding To the southern ring road in Lahti, to the 12th. The project would create new growth and jobs in a wide area, including Päijät-Häme. Minister, are you going to go to history as a minister who finally gives the green light to this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u365	Madam President! I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for his energetic approach to his new role in this autumn. We have one of these reforms, which have been made, because we do not have a transport policy report. However, it has traditionally been a tool for communicating the will state of transport policy with the surrounding society, and now we have not done so either by the ministry or by Parliament. We are about to have a road-bar project, a comprehensive reform of the Road Traffic Act and a number of other reforms, including digitalisation. How to ensure that citizens know, and in Finland at all, the overall picture of where we are going and where we are going in the next few years? Mr Jokinen spoke earlier about these EU funds. My impression is that EU financing decisions will not be taken for us unless we ourselves have taken decisions here first. Thus, for example, this railway package that Jokinen was talking about is an excellent idea. And why not make a larger road improvement package on the side of road transport and then make an appropriate decision to apply for EU funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u366	Madam President! VR has decided to transfer ticket sales to the Internet, ATMs and R kiosks. This has caused great concern both for the elderly and for people with disabilities. We have over 800,000 people in Finland who are over 55 years old, who do not have an Internet, who do not know how to use the Internet or who do not want to use the Internet, and thus these services they need to buy tickets for example do not come up against them on an equal footing with other citizens. Now I would like to ask the Minister: how do you ensure that every citizen, regardless of his ability to use the Internet or to use the vending machine, receives the guidance and advice currently available to the staff at the railway stations, so that we in the R-kiosk can secure this equally good, high-quality service for citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u367	Mr President! We are glad in the north that this road network issue is now improving, but the issue we are concerned about is air transport. In other words, in areas where there is no rail traffic at all, this air transport is part of this whole. Ports and waterways are also important for northern wood, i.e. a deeper route to Oulu and Expansion of the port of Oulu would be important if the competitive advantage were to come to the sawmill transport of the north. Sweden has a competitive advantage which they exploit, i.e. port and fairway charges, which burden us on this transport of wood. Has it been examined whether it would be possible for us, too, to remove these altogether? What overall impact would this have if these did not burden our transports?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u368	Madam President! Minister! I am pleased that this infrastructure repair debt is now being invested more fairly than has been done in a long time. But I think that there is one fundamental problem: if you think of our export industry's start-ups and the productivity leap from these things, then this investment money should have been more forward-looking. And in this way for the future: how does the Ministry intend to make such a plan that supports the export industry and these regions of the export industry, which are in the provinces, with this money?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u369	Mr President! I'll continue the thank-yous, too. The repair debt to the road is important, and I hope it will be well divided into Finland so that we can get as much of this lower road network fixed as possible. Improving the transmission capacity of the main line is also important, and it is good that progress is now being made. Then two brief questions: MAL agreements, land use, transport and housing agreements are also to be concluded on the growth corridors. I would like to ask the Minister: how are these progressing on the HHT axis and on the Helsinki-Lahti axis? Last but not least: one bottleneck of our East-West traffic passes through Hollola and Lahti, and it would actually serve all of Finland as East-West traffic if we could get this southern ring road in Lahti in order now. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we find a solution here to dismantle this bottleneck?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u370	Madam President! As a Member of Parliament, I welcome the decision of the Minister and the committee to devote EUR 6 million to the renovation and renovation of the Kimola Canal. I have to say that this money came at the last minute because this channel connection has been falling apart for years. This channel project will certainly have a positive impact on tourism in Kymenlaakso and Päijät-Häme. Like Mr Heinonen and Mr Heinonen Louhelainen here earlier, I'm asking about this Southern Lahti Ring Road, Highway 12. We have now been waiting 40 years for this road project to be carried out. This has also accommodated many centralized governments throughout history. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister whether it is already high time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u371	Mr President! It is good to continue with this acclaim from the representatives of the drunkards on behalf of the Kimola Canal, because it is indeed a joint project of the provinces in the areas of Kymenlaakso and Kouvola and Heinola, and it can combine the water routes of Kouvola and Viitasaari. This investment of 6 million is necessary. For my part, I would also like to thank the Minister for this good debt correction. Finland's roads need to be invested, and this 600 million-million-dollar funding this season is very welcome for the rubber wheel traffic, and it will improve the regional balance of both industry and, of course, individual people. Finally, I would like to mention these TEN-T networks and this EU funding and I would like the Minister to be able to open it up again as to whether there are any opportunities for this regime.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u372	Madam President! The budgetary plan and the draft budget for 2016 shift the focus of transport infrastructure funding from investment projects to maintenance. Reducing the debt to repair is one of the government's key projects. This is a good thing when we know how badly our road network has been released. However, investment in development is now low partly as a result of investments in basic infrastructure management, as well as savings decisions. Therefore, new financing models should be developed in addition to budget financing for development investment, so that, even in times of economic austerity, new projects are invested, as the report has also pointed out. In his own speech, the Minister replied in part that the financing models were being examined. I would like to ask the Minister for clarification: has the study of the new financing models started in any way in the background, and if not, is there a timetable for the plans to move forward, as in the case of the Southern Ring Road in Lahti?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u373	Mr President! It is good to remember that the reason why we often talk about savings here too is, of course, that exports do not pull, so I hope that all transport projects will have that point of view firmly on the table. With regard to future traffic, pioneering and also digitalisation, I hope that maritime transport will also be remembered, i.e. the global importance and potential of both passenger and freight transport for the Finnish economy and the potential of our nation to benefit. In the future, we're close to each other. It is good to remember that if, for example, the leading companies in the Vaasa region leave the energy cluster, the next address is China, India or Brazil, not any other city in Finland. The best engines in the world go to the world by sea, not by local trains — this is extremely important when new billions are brought to Finland. I am very pleased that the Minister of State has taken note of this Midway Alignment of the Bothnia Corridor project. It is now an opportunity to get money from the EU, and Sweden has already promised hundreds of billions of crowns for it. Finland’s share is
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u374	Let us take Mr Ihalainen again, and then the Minister will have the opportunity to respond again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u375	Mr President! Minister! It is extremely important for Finland's competitiveness that we have effective road, rail and port service systems, because we are 10% behind in these logistical costs and we must always catch up with it. It is therefore important that the railway network should also be developed and not rolled. In this respect, these cuts in purchasing traffic are poorly thought out — rather they should have been withdrawn. And at least we in Central Finland, as MPs, are very concerned about the end of passenger traffic from Keuruu, Haapamäki and other arrangements and what happens to freight transport afterwards. The second issue I am concerned about — and I hope the Minister will be able to ease my concerns a little — is that when competition comes to passenger transport too, hopefully gradually in Finland, this competition will not just be done in such a way that we start chopping up VR, because, in this competitive situation for passenger transport, we need a strong, coherent, logistically sustainable own VR rather than splitting it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u376	Minister Berner, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u377	Madam President! First of all, I would like to join in the thanks of Parliament for the funding of the Kimola Canal, which has been granted by the section. With regard to rail transport, I would like to emphasise that the compulsory transport which will take place in 2016 will be complementary to bus and coach transport, which means that all regions will be covered by both — and with the exception of transport — in the region of Siuntio, where there has been no market-based bus transport. But everywhere else is made this kind of combination and taken care of and arranged precisely now the scheduling along with the areas. It is my will to ensure that rail transport develops in Finland rather than slouch, and this requires careful work and careful preparation, and in this respect, as I have said, the conditions for opening up competition will be clarified and returned to them in March. I also agree that we will certainly need a good, efficient and competent national actor in the future. As far as the report is concerned, I think that when we get the financial models ready now — and the timetable when asked, it is actually ready for me at the moment — the question is that I can only introduce it to the government and get it over with so that I can then go through it in the early part of the year with a broader presentation. And when the funding models are adopted and built on them, it is absolutely essential that the list of projects that lasts beyond the term of the government be drawn up and that the priorities be set. These issues are interlinked and mutually supportive, and it is therefore essential that it also has a parliamentary vision of how to start developing these investments. Regarding the question of VR kiosks: It's a company's own decision that I don't have jurisdiction over. But I agree with the views of the poverty report, where we are concerned that we do not have all our citizens on digital services at the moment, both from the knowledge point of view and from the network point of view, and this calls for the whole government to make a real effort to ensure that, when services become digital, we also have access to these services in one way or another. The development of transport also involves air transport, and in that we have common concern about how we can improve our national air transport, both inland and abroad. It is a matter of close cooperation with Finnair, Finavia and VR at the moment, and will mode is to try to achieve some kind of accessibility project to develop this domestic tourism. As far as maritime routes are concerned, I share Mr Strand's view that we have a very important part to play in our exports to sea routes and that we must also ensure the continuous development of our maritime routes. In relation to MAL agreements:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u378	We still have half an hour to go through this section. Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u379	Madam President! I'll be right back with this maritime transport. In their own alternative budget, the Social Democrats have proposed halving fairway charges, which would make it more competitive for freight through ports, which are, therefore, exports and imports for us. As a first question: is it possible, Minister, to promote this? Secondly, since there is now only one of these new large projects and the last period was left — which was hoped to be largely transferred to EU funding — A drop or a big railway project: what is it doing at the moment, because it was the idea that it was still being promoted? Regarding the Kimola Canal, Valto Koskesta, who has been taking the project forward since 95 years, and now thank the section president for making progress at the moment. I share the same concern with Lauri Ihalainen about VR's future. I get messages from both the workers and the company inside, that the fear is that it will be completely chopped up, and then we will not have a strong player, because there is no private in any kingdom,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u380	Mr President! The very great challenge facing the Finnish economy is to strengthen the competitiveness of export products by means of the available means. In a country such as Finland with long distances, it is very important that transport connections are in order and transport costs remain reasonable and the time taken to deliver orders is the same. I myself come from Pirkanmaa, which is the hub of several highways, the main track and transversal rail traffic and the air traffic that supports them. My own province is closely affected by the Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere growth corridor, along which one third of Finns live. In strong centres, the different modes of transport must be closely linked. In addition to the south-north-north, there is a substantial cross-border connection, particularly to ports in the east-west, on both road and rail networks, and this has also been the view of the Committee on Finance in its report. I would ask the Minister of Transport for a brief overview of the plans the Government has for the development of functional cross-border connections and growth corridors that are important to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u381	Mr President! The long-term sustainability of transport policy is one of the final results of the corrective debt working group, the final conclusions. At this point, I would like to emphasise that the basic infrastructure management money must also be kept up by the next governments. So how do we ensure that this is becoming a parliamentary group or something like that? Then on these projects, these TEN-T investment sports corridors: It is a little worrying to see when the whole map of Finland shows only a small piece of Southern Finland. How do we get Finland on the map of Europe with regard to the TEN-T network? And the elimination of level crossings in these safety projects: is this possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u382	Mr President! This debate seems to have forgotten that this is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. However, in a digitalising world, communication is increasingly important to society and is also radically changing transport, as the chairman of the committee pointed out. For example, the availability and quality of broadband connections, the security of electronic services and the conditions for server centres are all topical issues that should also be taken into account in the budget, not to mention the needs of the next few years. My question is: how does the government intend to secure Finland's pioneering position as a developer of automated traffic, the Internet of Things, robot drones and the 5G network?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u383	Madam President! This EUR 60 million, which the Sipilä Government is going to put in the debt of correction during its term, is, if anything, a project for the future. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has stated that the importance of the fairway to customers is also taken into account in reducing the repair debt. This is an extremely important issue, and I hope that this will take into account the fact that the lower-degree road will act as a capillaries for the highways. In other words, securing the other heavy traffic of these dairy trucks, wooden trucks, heavy tractors, is really important to see that, although there is less traffic, it is enormously important. Without these unhindered traffic there will be no transport in the cities and no food will be eaten here either. But, Minister, I would like to ask: that is where Mr Jalonen pointed out that there are 500 vulnerable bridges in Finland. The section received an additional EUR 1.4 million. How do these remaining nearly 500 bridges — what thoughts
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u384	Madam President! The management of the repair debt is of the utmost importance. However, I would have drawn attention to the construction of new buildings. For decades, we drunks have had an underground highway through the city center, where trucks have to stop 12 times in traffic lights. I'm surprised no accidents have happened. The road is designed, the southern ring road in Lahti is ready for design. At the moment, we are waiting for a decision on the time frame for its implementation. However, it has a repayment coefficient of more than 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u385	Mr President! VR's profit in 2013 was EUR 100 million. In 2014, it was EUR 30 million. The result for this year is estimated to be between EUR 50 and EUR 60 million, which means that VR has done well this year. It is important that you announced in the interim debate that this obligation traffic would be increased. However, VR's negotiations have ended in November and the staff are now hanging loose. VR hasn't announced the future. That depends entirely on the fact that you indicate the extent of this compulsory traffic, which shifts will continue to take place. In what timetable will you indicate the extent of the traffic?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u386	Mr President! Minister! I can't wait to pick up where I left off in my last speech, so I will continue to ask this parliamentary group. And when Mr Jalonen, the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, also raised this issue, how can we ensure, in the coming parliamentary term too, that this good-started basic road repair debt is actually closed, how will it be ensured if we do not have sufficient parliamentary backing there? That is why I am still calling for the creation of a parliamentary working group on this whole field of transport and communication, which is to start thinking about these service chains, this public transport as a whole. In my opinion, Mrs Parviainen made a good point about the situation at regional airports and their importance to the province: sparsely populated Finland, long distances, distances, the development of the tourism industry requires that we have a functioning air transport and a network that works, but the prices are very high. Once again, Minister, I would like to ask you whether a parliamentary working party of this kind will be set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u387	Mr President! I will return to this Y-train issue once again. As the Minister himself has just said, bus services replacing the Y train are not going to be created, nor is this compulsory transport also going to be a replacement for the Y train. However, this commuter train transport is so important to Western Uusimaa that I am now going to ask you once again, while, in the past, both representatives of Feldt-Ranta, Adlercreutz and I have asked. What is needed now is both the Ministry's view and perhaps help in getting this traffic done in the future. Then, Madam President, as another question: what is the situation now with regard to electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track? It would also be a very important project for exports and the port of Hanko.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u388	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the Minister for the report on poverty which he raised in this speech, but which admits that, unfortunately, at the moment, not all people are able to access digital services, and it is of course important to bear that in mind. That is why it is great that the government has taken digitalisation as one of its top projects for all people to be included in it. This also involves VR's decision to close these stores. Especially in Lapland, it is very difficult because tourists in Rovaniemi or At Kemijärvi they are not yet fully able to use the VR services, so it would be good if VR also developed them. I would like to ask again about this airport network that it is of course important to also politically give peace to the region to develop it and take forward plans, but how can we get international connections to these northern tourist areas, direct connections, because it is a business issue of this kind and it would bring stability there that can be invested and developed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u389	Madam Speaker! I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Tourism for the very good guidelines. I would like to start by thanking the fact that it is a great thing that the Transport Section saw the importance of Seinäjoki Airport, Rengonharju Airport, and that such a new regional airport was given the opportunity to move forward. At Rengonharju we are now building such a light airport, a new concept that can lead the way to many other airports that will face challenges in the future. Thank you for the good work. I also hope that now these basic improvements will go a little to the lower-level road network for you. It is also very important for the bioeconomy. Mr President! I appreciate VR, but I do wonder about VR's activities in certain respects. It is strange that even though my friend left Vaasa for a trip to Helsinki, 70 euros cost a plane ticket, more than 100 euros a train ticket. You can't compete in a race like that. I also wonder about VR's operations that when you offer tickets between big centres, it is cheaper than getting off smaller railway stations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u390	Mr President! It is positive that almost EUR 1 billion more will be spent on basic bus maintenance during the spending limits period. The deteriorating condition of the road network has finally been taken seriously and sensible decisions have been taken in this regard. Among other things, Finnish motorcyclists thank for this, as the road system has been in very poor condition in some places, and if someone is willing to increase the number of accidents. I would ask: In what way do resources focus on that very basic infrastructure and, for example, on asphalt? How is it controlled? Electronic transport is what we have often talked about here, and the Paris climate agreement, among other things, is one thing that aims to prevent climate change. I would like to ask: how will the charging points for electric cars in Finland be increased, among other things? Then Kehä One's construction project, which was already raised by the representative of the plant: is it reasonable that this high cost should then be incurred in the form of municipal expenses, as is happening in Espoo, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u391	Madam President! Minister! The long-term perspective is particularly important in transport policy, and it is therefore sad that this yellow book, the draft budget, does not have any of the projects decided in the transport policy report last season, of which I would particularly like to mention that Luumäki-Imatra dual track from the point of view of south-east Finland. We have received greetings and answers from the Minister from different parts of Finland, and I would like to join these people and ask: What kind of message can we send to South Karelia? Is the dual track of Imatra-Lumäki, which has already been decided by Parliament, going to be implemented in this period? Is there funding for it in one way or another?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u392	Madam President! Good speeches have been made in this debate, both on road, rail and water transport and on air transport. Everyone is very important and, of course, the double track raised by Mr Kymäläinen. Luomäki—Imatra is of real importance and it is hoped that this will I would also like to raise an issue which is far too short for discussion, specifically the functioning of telecommunications connections, how important they are to the whole of Finland for people's housing, living and trying, also outside Ring 3. I think it is very important that the construction of broadband connections throughout Finland is continued and also takes into account the construction of optical fibre — that fibre is the most secure means of communication, however — and there it is the joint construction of the various players: when you build electricity networks, you can also build optical fibre there. I hope that these projects will be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u393	Madam President! I agree with Mr Kymäläinen in raising the Luumäki-Imatra dual track project. This is a very important issue, because a significant part of Finland's exports is to be transported to Russia through it and by restricting the current old line to purely passenger traffic across the border and then the flow of goods would then flow from Imatra. On the Russian side, I believe that these rail solutions and constructions are very far from done, and we are a little behind, and it would be really great and desirable if we could move forward quickly on these issues. Further, the dissemination of telecommunications technology to rural and rural areas is of paramount importance, as Mrs Torniainen described the situation there. We have good examples in that country of how local co-operatives half-prohibit these optical cables at a very cost-effective price. Could the government use a project of some kind to support this work better?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u394	Madam President! There have also been several debates here today about one of the government's key projects, namely the growing potential of the bioeconomy. It is an extremely worthwhile idea, and most importantly, if it succeeds, it will also bring new jobs that we desperately need in this country. However, in committee hearings it has been pointed out that these government contributions to the private sector are totally inadequate for the plans relating to the potential of the bioeconomy for its own objectives. The wood does not pass from the forests to the factories without private roads in good condition. I understand that the previous governments can also look at themselves in the mirror, but in any case, if the bioeconomy is to be regarded as one of the leading projects, then private road investments are quite undersized. In his own speech, Mr Jokinen raised this issue of road safety, and I would like to share my support for all the work we are doing on road safety, both in the section and in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u395	Madam President! Let's talk a little bit about communication, that's YLE. I am concerned about the public radio and the services it provides. The state is, as it were, a cash machine for Yle, over EUR 500 million a year. Yle as such is not in the great responsibility for profit or production for anyone. There is only talk of transparency and equity — whether this will happen, I am not quite sure. A parliamentary task force has now been set up to reflect on the future of Yle. I'd see a lot of development. I believe that the Minister agrees, otherwise this working group would not even have had to be set up. So I ask Minister Berner: what do you think is the future of Yle, and is such a parliamentary radio needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u396	Mr President! Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you: What action is now being taken to improve road safety in rail transport? This also affects road transport. In other words, when we talk about the elimination of level crossings, the restructuring of railway structures and changes in safety equipment systems that can speed up train connections and thus improve the level of service and competitiveness and thus contribute to the objectives of the Paris agreement on climate change and, as the Minister said in his previous speech, we want to increase the number of passengers to 10%, so that competition and market economy alone will not achieve that objective if we make travel times faster. For example, at our Savon track at the moment Kuopio-Helsinki four hours,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u397	Madam President! The theme project highlighted the future of the light transport routes and their plans. I would like to ask the Minister: at what stage can they be expected, perhaps during this term of government? How, then, will they be prioritised in due course? Is this also the point of view of the Ely Centres being taken into account? Another issue that has not been discussed much today is the overall reform of public transport. Next year, this round of traffic project will begin, and I hope that all the different forms of public transport, such as bus transport, rail transport, taxi transport and, of course, air transport, will be taken into account, and all the different sectors will be able to join together in that preparatory phase. The future of public transport is particularly worrying in rural areas. What are some of the possibilities for taxis to replace outgoing bus or train services in that area?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u398	Mr President! I would ask the Minister to open up this idea of this dismantling of the special status of the service contract regulation in large urban areas, which is why. But then the eyes will be on air traffic here. In this interim issue of rail connections and this autumn it has emerged that the Minister was prepared to use ownership guidance in this increase in VR's obligation traffic to those areas that are now being closed down. Now, in connection with the previous announcement of results, Finnair’s CEO announced that the play-off game will now begin in domestic air traffic. Minister, the regions are being asked, and I am asking you now, whether you are prepared to use corporate governance in the government, if necessary, also to secure domestic air transport connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u399	Mr President! There has been talk of the Kimola Canal, that is a good thing, and there has been talk of rail transport and some about airports. I would like to raise the question of the future of Malmi Airport once again by the Minister of Transport. A model has been presented in order to ensure the continuation of the airport and to meet these objectives of housing construction. I would like to ask Minister Berner, when you are an open-minded and courageous factor, if you could hold negotiations with the City of Helsinki once again, for example, to find a model where such a magnificent, historic and functional field could be secured. You have also done a great job of dismantling red tape and standards, and I hope that the upward changes in speed limits in traffic on changing boards, the system of fines, the absurd licensing of the guides, and many more things will now be brought to your desk and, therefore, make sense of this extremely extensive bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u400	Madam President! Working in the Transport section throughout the autumn was very exciting and even sometimes fun, if I dare say so. Thank you very much to the section president, Mr Jokinen, who is an expert representative. But also very much thanks to Minister Berner, who has brought us a good budget proposal in relation to these circumstances — warm thanks for that. These are sincere compliments, but of course I will immediately throw in two wishes, i.e. a double track between Tampere and Jyväskylä, which will also serve the transport of the large new factory in Äänekoski to the port of Vuosaari, for which there is an agreement, and another project north of Jyväskylä, i.e. the construction of the Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway, which I hope with the same greetings from Äänekoski
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u401	Let's take the representatives of Mikkonen, Feldt-Ranta, Jalonen, Jokinen and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u402	Madam President! Good Minister! I would like to ask you again now, when I did not quite understand what is happening to this Joensuu-Nurmes train and the Joensuu-Various route, from which the transversal connection continues across Finland. In other words, by the end of March they will cease and then the tendering procedure will begin, but it will take time for the tendering procedure to be completed. Some of this money is being spent on compulsory transport, to maintain links with it. But what are the connections like, and whether the train runs on 1.4. Joensuu-Nurmes and Joensuu-Various, which enables cross-border traffic from Joensuu to Turku?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u403	Mr President! Mr Berner, you said here earlier that you have been able to find a solution everywhere else since the abolition of purchasing traffic, except in Siuntio and Inkoos, the transport solution of Western Uusimaa is still open. Would you please tell the Westerners, Minister, how to secure their access to employment, education and training after March? This applies to thousands and thousands of people. It would also be reasonable from the point of view that you should answer this question, because, apart from myself, I am here today, at least Mr Blomqvist, Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Karimäki have spoken on this matter. I would like you now to be able to clear up this uncertainty and tell us how a very popular, important Y-train can be replaced so that 40 kilometres of this Parliament House is some kind of public transport that thousands of people use every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u404	Mr. Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u405	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister a question of principle. We collect quite a lot of taxes on transport, EUR 7.9 billion in total, and the mere share of car tax, fuel taxes and VAT is about EUR 6 billion, as a general margin for the state budget. Now that transport is being electrified, it means that fuel taxes are becoming less important and taxes on the basis of emission calculations are also somewhat questionable from the point of view of actual consumption. When these reforms are being carried out and perhaps tax relief is being given to some, how do we ensure that taxation is uniform and that taxation is fair, as it were, from the point of view of people living in regions where these reforms cannot be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u406	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. This has been good and raised very important issues. I'll raise a few points. Representative Plant, as always, defends digitality and highlights them with its expertise. Indeed, traffic is much more than just road traffic. There is no air transport without a functioning network of airports, and the network of airports does not make it self-worth, which means that there must also be air transport. And here I think one of the monopolies in our country should be raised, and I think that at some point we should take a good look at it. I would like to thank the Section for Transport and the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Communications. In this spirit of cooperation, it is good to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u407	Madam President! There has been a great deal of commendation here for the government's line and for the Minister's efforts to deal with this matter of debt correction. I myself recall why it is that we can be commended. This is because the government respects the parliamentary work that was done last season. And the unity that emerged from the report of the parliamentary working party is now being put into practice. Of course, as a member of the committee, I would like to thank you once again for having produced a single-inch report last spring and for bringing forward its fruit. That's good. The Minister said here that the funding models will soon be evaluated, and I hope that in spring we will be able to consider which targets will be piloted. The southern ring road in Lahti, which has emerged here, is an excellent destination for piloting, because 30% of the municipalities have committed themselves to financing it. The representative of the plant brought up the digitalisation of that traffic, which is really important, but of course we have to remember that bit does not replace bitumen. Both are needed, and that is why this cooperation and good spirit around transport policy is very important. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u408	And Minister Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u409	Madam President! I checked 19 questions. I will try to answer as well as I can get the answers given to you all quickly. The Broadband Project is to be continued. It has some unused resources and we are very committed to making it available to all the population. We will work to get it into the budget next year. We have a leading project called Digi2 to ensure that we find a growth environment for digital business. It considers the use of its own data and mass data, the construction of open interfaces, through support for IoT projects, the creation of conditions for automation and robotisation, the viewing of related regulations, but also the launching of experiments in these sectors, where transport constitutes one possible destination where these can be done. The objective would be to achieve a significant growth environment through these measures. We will report this key project for the first time since January to the government. The debt to repair will also include new bridge projects, and from that point of view we will certainly ensure that we are able to influence this challenge as widely as possible. VR has indeed done a good job, but it must be noted that the result is generated from four different business areas, of which rail transport is only one. From that point of view, I have also gone through with VR that their procedures are not dependent on this obligation traffic, even though it has been announced otherwise. However, despite this, there will certainly be an obligation to transport, timetables and decisions in January, and that is precisely the task of cooperation and also the task of doing so with the regions. Then we will also be able to reach the timetables and go over the whole thing. Electric cars and alternative biofuels are on the high agenda, especially with these climate agreements in Paris. Here we come to see what are the key measures that are required to genuinely achieve these objectives. We do not have the funds for new projects for 16 and 17 years, and that is why, as much as I would like to say, your individual projects are starting to move, I will not be able to take a position until the funding models are clear. $30 million for privates. We know that it is still little, but it is still 30 million more than it was before. And from that point of view too, we still have to see what can be done about this section in the future. Road safety is a shared responsibility, and here we will certainly see to it that we develop rail and road safety systems and take care of them when we develop the whole of the Road Traffic Act. Security and its development are one of the key points of view. For light transport routes: This is the theme we will be developing during the year 17. That's when we get back to it. With regard to public transport and the transport cycle, the aim is to ensure that all modes of transport are taken into account on an equal footing and thus developed. And quickly, if I may reply, the question of the principle of how transport income systems will be developed: we have a question which I will be happy to discuss in Parliament next spring, because these climate requirements will also lead us to reconsider these models.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u410	Section 31 will be suspended and the debate will continue at a later date.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u411	The examination of Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u412	Madam President! In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications there are positive things for all citizens and society in these difficult times when it seems that everything is being saved. Of course, in relation to the change of line that the Joint Parliamentary Group had proposed in the previous period, that there should be some investment to reduce the debt of correction, but now EUR 600 million, is a big deal, although it must also be recognised that it is not enough in fact to pay off the debt of correction. But it is the beginning of a somewhat narrowing down of the correction debt. This will also have a very strong economic stimulus in the regions and in Finland as a whole. Of course, there are also two road projects in my region of northern Finland that must be mentioned as a few examples. First of all, I am grateful that the Ministry of Transport has already promised funding for the 21 road to Norway, the Kilpisjärvi road, to repair it, because there are foreign trucks on the side of the road and in the ditch every week, and that is a very problematic situation. According to the Finnish Transport Agency, the road section from Oulu to Kemi is a more dangerous road section than the average. Although there is no new project money in this perspective, when funds are released from the spending limits period in 18 and 19, I hope that they will then be available for this section of the road, for example. The problem is, of course, that when new funding opportunities are sought, it is certainly a good thing that the committee and the ministry and also this Chamber should then be able to discuss how new opportunities can be realised with new projects. Of course, it must not mean that if the government is forced to withdraw because of savings, then there will be more pressure on the local and regional economies, but we must also be able to obtain these new forms of funding and also receive EU funding for our transport projects in some way. Of course, a good example of this is also what is found in the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism that how can it be that we have remained so far behind in terms of TEN-T development funds as far as the situation of the child is concerned, for example in Sweden, that we have received 77 million for this period and in Sweden, at the same time, the amount has been 470 million, a little fair. Hopefully, in the next round, we will also succeed better. Of course, investment in the railways should also be considered. Of course, this is absolutely central to the TEN-T network and to the fact that we also have international rail links. In this respect, the electrification of a small piece of track between Finland and Sweden, EUR 10 million from Kemimaan Laurila to Haparanna, would be of prime importance, but also bigger plans for Arctic issues and the Arctic. There is information in public that Norway and Sweden have made large investments there, are interested in financing the track. But is it now a bit of a matter for Finland that we do not really have such a long-term opportunity to invest now in getting the Arctic track started, this project for decades? With regard to air transport, I would like to say that it is important that the government should now be able to give such a peace of development and, in a way, a political backrest to the various regions and regions themselves to develop that airport activity without fear of going down at some point. Their regional economic significance is so great that it would be a very foolish policy for a country such as Finland to start saving from them. And, of course, I hope that the regions will actively apply for the money saved for broadband projects. Regrettably, there was no more, but of course we must first use the old ones away, that we will make the leading project of digitalisation a reality, that all people will then be able to access high-speed communications. I'm sure this would also take the bottom away from concentration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u413	Värderade fru talman! Det är positivt att regeringen noterat trafiknätts reparationsunderskott. I ett land som Finland med långa avstånd och en exportberoende industri är vägnätet och jänvägsnätet en avgörande factoro för en vämående economist. Satsningar på infrastruktur är i allra högsta grad också investmentingar i det finska näringslivet och brode alltid ses ur ett tvärvartellt och övergripande perspectiveiv.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u414	Mr President! If this is really allowed in this time, then I myself will climb up here and talk about regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u417	Madam President! The section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is one of the most important for the future of Finland and Finland. In line with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Government Programme, we are now moving towards financing investments in maintenance. It's the right choice. We all know, Madam President, that the repair debt on Finland's roads and network is about EUR 2.5 billion. It's a shocking amount. This is the way it has been allowed to grow as a result of a conscious policy, but fortunately this will now change. One of the government's top projects is to reduce this correction debt during the parliamentary term: EUR 600 million for the railways and more money for you. In 2016, it will be EUR 100 million, in 17 it will be EUR 300 million and in 18 it will be EUR 200 million. In addition, a package of development funds will provide EUR 364 million for the period 2017-2019. The money is used for basic bus maintenance. As I listened to this feedback debate on the report by the Committee on Finance, I am pleased to note that the opposition's support for this is also very strong. It is a sign that the parliamentary work carried out during the last parliamentary term has borne fruit, and this Parliament, which is sitting here today, continues in this same good line, and I salute it with great satisfaction. In other words, approximately EUR 1 billion will be spent on this correction debt during this parliamentary term, which means that we are only in the middle of managing the correction debt, so that it is not worth hitting our breasts yet. And it must be remembered that with this climate change, with warmer winters one after another, it means that the lower road network and road surfaces are increasingly under strain, which must also be taken into account when drawing up future national budgets. However, the work will be started, and the government's second important project for this period is the bioeconomy, which means that the transport of wood on our roads will increase. This means more and more consumption, and it is important that now this line choice of investments in maintenance has been made. I strongly support that line. Madam President! One observation from the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is that the Kimola Canal receives as little funding as EUR 8 million. That is why I welcome this with great joy that I have been a strong influence in this famous channel group during the previous parliamentary elections, and I would be happy to see that in the coming decades, the Finnish transport culture would invest more and more in the construction of rail transport and, above all, inland waterway transport in this country. We have the best inland waterway route in the world in Finland free of charge all year round. I'm sure some government official at the Department of Transport or Transport will say it's frozen in the winter. Ships built with modern technology deal with inland ice such as scissors on paper. The ice does not matter what Finland’s inland waters wear in winter. In other words, for the maritime technology that is being built in this country, ice in inland waters means nothing at all. I am very surprised that, for example, the forest industry, although it genuinely supports this development of inland waterways, is actually opposed by all means available to it, because it sees a situation where there is genuine competition from Finnish wood, thereby improving the situation of forest owners and increasing collection prices. This is harshly true of Finnish transport policy today. The forest industry, even if you think it's in favour of developing waterways, isn't really worth it. If one of the big leaders in the forest industry listens to this speech, I hope that you will contact — this could be discussed in greater detail. There will be an additional EUR 8 million for the private sector, Mr President. It's just a modest handout, a little money so small it's not worth a lot of cheering about, but it's a start. Finally, Madam President, the Committee on Finance will take a position on this road money through the European Union, the so-called EU-TEN-T network and the money that will be made available through it. Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Finland would have a place to play. We should draw up projects in this country that are really relevant to the future transport culture in this country. Of course, this money cannot be spent on day-to-day basics or something else, but on major projects that are decisive in changing the transport environment. I propose — and at least in the Minutes — that there are two projects in Finland that fulfil this condition. One is this line to be built on the Arctic Ocean, so that the Northern Dimension can make a genuine connection, and the other would then be the development of domestic inland waterways.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u418	Mr President! A few more observations in this section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Mr Hoskonen has just spoken with great merit and has listed a number of projects of national significance, and even European importance, for which European funding should be sought, as trans-European routes to this so-called TEN-T network. I would now like to point out from that western Finland — I understand that Hoskone, as a strong advocate of Eastern Finland, may not have noticed this — the connection between Vaasa and Umeå in Kvarken and the creation of a modern, renewable-energy ship. It could be one such project that would allow us to discharge some of that money, the membership fees that we pay for membership of the European Union. It is a very interesting Bothnia Corridor project, which has already been mentioned in this Chamber, and I hope that we will be able to support the fact that this project will receive the money of the so-called EU growth fund. President! I would like to thank, in addition to a number of other speeches, this investment in fundamentalism, which is now being done, for 600 million in this parliamentary term. It is not enough to cover the repair debt that exists on our roads and on other roads, but the direction is the right one. I would like to express the hope that the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport will now direct this money to these very lower roads of the state. It is very important for the success of our green economy that this lower-level road network is also maintained, that wood is able to move around and that people in rural areas can engage in their livelihoods. I also think that this private road money is very good. Madam Speaker! The evening is well along, but I would like to comment on the situation in VR. Yes, it seems strange that in many situations a plane ticket may be cheaper than a train ticket for the same journey. It seems to me that we have a bit of a monopoly at hand here. I think it is important that the routes from which VR stops traffic should be opened up to competition as quickly as possible, in particular the Seinäjoki-Vaasa and the Seinäjoki-Jyväskylä sections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u419	Mr President! Transport policy and transport systems are closely linked to other activities of society. In particular, they affect the operating conditions of industry, the economy, employment and the development of regions. The Government is quite right to invest in the transport network by improving the condition of the road and rail network, in particular, during the current Government term. A total of EUR 600 million has been set aside for 2016-18 to halt the accumulated repair debt of the transport infrastructure. The figure for the coming year will be EUR 100 million. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Finance proposed allocating EUR 40 million under 10 different sections. It is a pleasure to note that in this context the Committee on Finance has confirmed the financing of the rehabilitation of the Kimola Canal. Renovating the Kimola Canal is a supranational development project that we were actively involved in during the last parliamentary term. The project has a wide impact on regional and industrial policy, particularly from the point of view of tourism, but also from the point of view of other businesses. Mr President! Finally, the committee rightly draws attention to the need to take care of the lower road network in order to keep the whole country occupied. Private roads play an important role in, for example, forest management and the management of the operating conditions of forestry and bioeconomy. Appropriations have been allocated to private road grants and forest road rehabilitation. This is a good thing. Flexible transport in the wood industry is one of the key factors in maintaining the competitiveness of our wood industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u420	Madam President! However, there are a certain number of government parties here on the ground, and I believe that all MPs have been informed of Äänekoski's major investment in bioproduct factories. This means more load, especially for Jämsä-Orivesi. The Federation of Central Finland has long considered a dual track connection between Jämsä-Orivesi as one of its leading projects. I hope that this investment in bioproduct factories and increased transport of wood will result in these key rail projects being put in order. Another point that has rightly been raised by many representatives: the issue of air transport in their own regions. At this point, I would like to highlight these much-spoken kilometer payments. One of the key things that is needed for these connections is that there are people who use these connections. If it is much more profitable for ten people to go in their own cars for kilometer compensations, who will use that flight connection? This is what many cities, many urban areas, regions have been paying attention to. One thing that would be good here too, from the point of view of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, is precisely how different forms of aid affect certain transport connections. This should also be borne in mind when we talk about and are concerned about the profitability of air transport routes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u421	Madam President! This section 31, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, is one of the bright spots in this budget, because there are actually such investments — improvement of basic infrastructure management and new projects — that actually create work and improve conditions for action throughout the country. It is therefore incomprehensible that, when you read this text, it is clear here that, among other things, there is such a reserve of EUR 100 million for which no use has yet been found, and yet at the same time, in this capital region and then in that transversal traffic, EUR 15 million will be reduced. This budget book talks about the development corridors that should be supported, so it seems truly wonderful that there is a desire to reduce or reduce the railway networks in the capital region. New financing solutions are being raised here and it is stated that they are available, but they have not been applied for enough, and it is stated separately that they have not been applied for because they can only be allocated to railway projects. Well, everyone knows that nothing is going on as much as rail projects at the moment, so it does raise the question of how it is possible that these opportunities have not been exploited by the Ministry of Transport, and I am speaking specifically about this TEN-T aid, which has only been requested for EUR 77 million. I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u422	Madam President! I am very pleased that reducing the transport network repair debt is one of the government's key projects. The Kärki project is a very important and also a necessary investment in the smooth operation and safety of transport. It is also a question of road safety. This will also be improved by this project and funding. A further EUR 100 million will start next year, and slowly during the whole development period, the debt will begin to fall if almost EUR 1 billion more is spent on basic bus maintenance than before, as promised in this proposal. Unfortunately, there is still no information for next year about the amount of ely-centre money you can get, and this information the ely-centres really expect to be able to think about what you will be refurbished to. In my own province, for example, there will be hardly any road repairs to the Upper Karelian and Central Karelian regions unless new plans are made. I also very much welcome the fact that, according to the budgetary plan, an additional EUR 30 million will be allocated to private road grants between 2017 and 2019. In particular, the rural road network has been waiting for this as if it were rising from the moon. I am very pleased that next year, EUR 8 million will be allocated to the private sector, since private roads will play a key role in the operating conditions of forestry and bioeconomy and in both permanent and leisure-time housing. After all, the bioeconomy is one of our top projects, and this solution also supports this key project. This correction debt, which will therefore amount to EUR 100 million next year, will really be needed. This has also been stated in a number of contributions from representatives. In addition to the budget, it is proposed to allocate EUR 5 million to the state aid for private roads and EUR 95 million to the basic infrastructure. I think these are the right decisions. I consider it important, like Mr Hoskonen, to renovate the Kimola Canal. This is important for tourism and business in Eastern Häme and Kymenlaakso. The renovation of the canal also opens a waterway connection from Kouvola to Viitasaari through Päijänne. This will also have an impact on industrial policy and employment, so an investment of EUR 6 million is justified. I put a written question to the Minister on the development of inland waterway transport in spring 2015, in particular with regard to these channels. In this case, funding was not yet promised. In Central Finland, however, completely new pulping is under construction, including Äänekoski, Varkaus and Kuopio, which need a low-cost waterway as the cheapest and least polluting mode of transport. The planned factories are on the waterways. If we combined Päijänne and Saimaa, Päijänne and Mäntyharju with channels, we would be able to secure transport from inland lakes to the sea and not just rely on the Saimaa Canal. In this way, tourism, in particular the large pulp mills and other industrial plants that are planned, would benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u423	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the thanks that have been expressed here for the money allocated to the maintenance of the basic route. In many places our roads are in very poor condition, along with the rail network, and the debt of repair has increased, and it does need to be paid. But then it has to be said that this EUR 15 million cut in the purchase of public transport services, which is mainly directed at rail transport, amazes me greatly. In practice, this means that after the end of March, rail services will no longer be purchased in Joensuu-Nurmes, Tampere-Keuruo-, Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Seinäjoki andJoensuu-Varkaus, which will break off the traffic link. Train shifts are also reduced on the Riihimäki-Lahti, Hanko-Karjaa, Kouvola-Kotka port and Kajaani-Oulu routes. In addition, the Y-train between Karjaa and Helsinki will be terminated in nearby traffic in the Helsinki region. A total of 550,000 journeys a year will be made on these disbanded shifts, and the total number of trains will stop at 28 stations. The Government has announced that the routes to be closed will be opened to competition. Well, since then we have heard that even if these were to be opened up to competition, there will in practice be no alternative to starting there until the end of next year. Moreover, it is unlikely that market-based entrants will be found on these state-subsidised routes, such as Joensuu-Nurmes. Some solution has been found in the case of the blessing, but even here the municipality is being paid, which is not sustainable. In practice, this will mean that these changes will force passengers to rely more and more on private car use, as some of the existing routes are virtually non-existent. On the other hand, these have many travelers for whom the car is not an option, such as students, schoolchildren. Today, I tried to ask Minister Berner twice what will happen to these shut-down shifts and whether there will really be replacement traffic, as he has promised. Representatives Myller and Mäkisalo-Ropponen also asked the same question. But we didn't get any answers. It is amazing that the government wants to drive down rail transport while, at the same time, we know how environmentally friendly the train is and how we need to think about how to reduce CO2 emissions. Functional rail connections are important for the vitality of the province, and these cuts in North Karelia, for example, would end all passenger train traffic except from Joensuu to Helsinki. Joensuu University City has attracted students very well across the country, but if our train connections deteriorate so drastically, it is clear that students' entry into the city will also decrease. In addition to these savings in rail transport, over one million of the savings in public transport are directed towards development projects aimed at improving the operating conditions, competitiveness and attractiveness of public transport in the long term. As a result of the austerity measures, digitalisation projects in public transport are threatening to be delayed. The development of services such as public transport and wider mobility for shared use will be postponed, which will also reduce the attractiveness of public transport. I would like Parliament to consider returning this 15 million to the budget and, at least, looking for sustainable solutions until it is possible to make sensible calls for competition in passenger transport. And it is quite clear that competition is worth starting where there is also a market, and in the North Karelia, for example, there is no real market in public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u424	Madam President! It is absolutely essential that significant efforts are finally made to develop transport connections throughout Finland. For example, a total of nearly EUR 1 billion is invested in the road and rail network. We must thank Mrs Vitostie, for example, for giving the correction money so that one of our main routes can finally be put in proper shape. We must also find money for Highway 22 in the future. This renovation of the lower road network is also very important. This is the last moment at hand because of the poor state of the road. During the Government’s term of office, key transport projects will also be made possible in the regions by means of new financing by the state. Mr President! In Finland, the Ministry of Transport also has to carry out a reform of both rail and air transport and the whole transport sector, which will increase competition and make tickets cheaper so that more passengers can take turns. It is important that more citizens should also be brought from private cars to public transport for environmental reasons. Mr President! The continuing decline in transport connections in the provinces must be brought to an end. It is important that, instead of, for example, the end of train services for many years, shifts are now being set up before the overall reform, or that these terminations should be replaced, for example, between Kajaani and Oulu. So the inhabitants of the provinces will not be left in the lurch this season. These opportunities will be created for business and investment throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u425	Madam President! I would like to add to my previous speech on inland waterway transport. I would like to thank Mr Kulmala for his excellent speech on the development of inland waterways. If we want to create a genuine domestic inland waterway transport in this country, it really means building the Mäntyharju Canal, which connects the waters of Saimaa and Päijänne. This would involve a transport operation that would bring 80% of Finland's forest resources to the water transport route throughout the year, which would significantly improve the competitiveness of the forest industry and reduce transport costs by around 5% from now on. That is precisely the difference that distinguishes us from the loss of trade in the Swedish forestry industry to the world market today. That would bring two advantages. Many people are afraid of the ports of Southern Finland and the ports on the west coast, whether or not traffic from them would be reduced. Not at all, but it would increase. Feeding from inland waterways would be used by ships to seaports, from which traffic would continue on larger ships. As traffic increased, profitability would improve. That is why this project is very suitable for the European TEN-T network. It is not a place where money can be sought, even if it is for basic or basic projects, but only for development projects which create something significant new, for example because of the good environmental criteria in the opposition. The Centre has been driven by these principles throughout over a hundred years of history, and many have since come into this, that is a great thing. This TEN-T money is precisely for projects that can develop something new and significant and create a new transport culture, either from an environmental point of view or otherwise from the point of view of the smooth running of transport. This is exactly what the inland route would be like. Think of Finland today. We've had a fairly short winter. The transport possibilities for inland waterway transport are almost all year round today, and it would bring tourism to Finland's inland waterways. Thus, along the current inland waterways, we have, among other things, the capital of our beloved homeland. Joensuu would be a very lively city for inland waterway transport. Today, only a few larger ships visit in the summer, but if this were built, we would have all the cities along Finland's inland waterways, including Iisalmi. This would be a huge step forward in Finnish transport policy. When a study was carried out during Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen on the channelling of the Kymijoki River, that study aimed only at the fact that the channel was not being built. There, for example, at Kouvola, a canal was built on dry land, even though a huge river is next to it. It is exactly the same as trying to build an airport underground — an equally impossible task. In this regard one might say that when reason overcame this nation we would be much longer. If we really want this country to develop, then we have to do something big, and the other big thing is to build a train connection to the Arctic Ocean. This is what the former Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen has created during this Northern Dimension, and that is a good idea. We have to give him a special thank-you. But even that northern dimension is nothing but words for as long as we do something. The first action to be taken is definitely a Finnish rail connection to the Arctic Ocean, and the Norwegians have offered us an excellent opportunity through Kirkkonniemi, among others. They have wondered on many occasions why Finland is not building the northern railway towards the Arctic Ocean. They would be willing to invest their part in Norway. Finland would not have to put its own money in it at all, but Norway would put its own money in it. We could have a year-round port north, which would be a huge step forward. When we think of the enormous natural wealth of the Kola Peninsula, we should create this link. If we focus on whether to fix a three - mile [3 km] road or this road, it is a little talk about small things. Finland will one day have to take note of its own destiny and do something to develop this country. These two projects — the development of inland waterways, the construction of the Mäntyharju Canal, i.e. Päijänne — The combination of Saimaa is the number one. It would cost about one billion to two, and if it were divided into ten years, it would have no value in Finland's annual budget, and if the TEN-T network were to receive money from someone from there 20-30%, then it would be a small thing in the whole Finnish budget for such a huge project. The size class is probably the same as the construction of this railway in the Arctic Ocean, but both would bring Finnish business to a whole new boom, and that is what this country needs. We don't need any ironing or anything else. We have raw materials, we only need good transport routes, and that is what we have natural potential for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u426	Mr President! In Päijät-Häme, the construction of the south ring road vt 12 has been planned for decades. Today, the road line runs over important and sensitive groundwater areas. There are many trucks on the road every day, the contents of which would cause irreplaceable damage to groundwater. Different near-miss situations happen every day. A busy road passes through the city of Lahti. There are schools nearby, and soon a new travel center will be opened. The Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, said here today that funding models, and in particular the search for new financing models, are also a key issue for transport projects. This tense economic situation requires innovation, open-mindedness and also responsibility. There has been a lot of emphasis here on the fact that the state must also bear responsibility for transport projects and not impose responsibility on municipalities. However, Hollola and Lahti seek to lead the way in finding innovative transport and financing solutions. Municipalities have offered the government the possibility to use the municipalities' 28% funding for the project. It would require new legislation and a new approach to the implementation of major road transport projects. I am very pleased, Mr President, that the political decision-makers in the region and the decision-makers in the two different municipalities, as well as here in Parliament, are firmly behind this project, both the opposition and the government. This has also been said here today by Mr Kari in his own speech. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say that this is the regional combination of coal — I would not say the famous spirit of Hollola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u427	Mr President! Here Mr Mikkonen spoke very well about this cut of 15 million, and that is something that really surprises me in this billion-dollar category. I still wanted to come back to this point so that this 15 million could easily have been managed by internal transfers within paragraph 31, so that no such fish balisket has been created, which has now been created. In its transport policy approach, Finland has chosen the railways as a key vehicle for mobility. It is in line with sustainable development, it is advantageous. These networks are in moderate condition and are constantly being improved. For example, this Joensuu – Varkaus-inter-connection line at Savonlinna has been almost completely renewed over the past few years, and now this savings will make it virtually unused. This decision is absolutely strange and very difficult to understand. That is why I share Mr Mikkonen's concern and hope that this will be withdrawn. Then this unreasonableness that one small municipality of Siuntio will then have to put their own money, because they do not actually have a choice: They've plotted the entire area of that station. New families have moved there, and once they have finished this house, there will be an announcement that they will be taken away from the railway line. This cannot be done. It's not right anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u428	Mr President! I would also like to take the floor at the end of this debate, when there have been such good proposals from the representatives of the government parties as well as from the representatives of the opposition parties in relation to this section. It was only then that I began to wonder for myself, when I summed up these proposals a little, whether it had happened, however, that there was quite a lot of talk about new projects in the billions. There are also quite a lot of these billion-dollar projects coming from the representatives of the government parties, and then in the rest of the debate, when this budget has been discussed in this Chamber, there has generally been so little that nothing really can be done. That now it seems that everything can be done, and then when we talk about, for example, this purchase service cut of EUR 15 million, there is no way that it can be cancelled, because it is now such a decisive saving in this government savings programme that it needs to be made. I would like some sort of consistency in that. As we all know, transport policy is the vascular system in this country, which must be kept spinning, so that we have business to run and there are conditions for living, living and working everywhere in Finland. It also has to do with the fact that we are actually trying to keep this entire vascular system in order and not that, for example, we are putting the municipalities of Western Uusimaa, including Siuntio, but also Inkoo and Karjaa in Raaseporia, for example, in the event of the abolition of this Y train. It would be good if the representatives of the government parties would also remember this, given that many of these new projects and new basic improvements are being cultivated here too, which is indeed a good thing, because, in this economic situation, it would certainly make sense for Finland to be able to use its own lever pool for public money and also to activate that private money for various investments, all the opportunities would be used, including actively seeking funding from the European Union for these TEN-T projects, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u429	Madam President! Mr Räsänen spoke well. One more aspect: When there is a thinning down of shifts or other on a railway line somewhere in the city or in a city, there is usually a ready-made bus service and alternatives. But in this case of Siuntio, a delegation of students came here to tell us that they have no choice. They have to go to schools many hours earlier because they are now being cut off from traffic. These are such things that these are unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u430	Moving on to Section 28 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u431	Madam President! The Committee on Finance has drawn up a report on Chapter 28.90 of the Section for Local Government and Health of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. "Supporting the Municipalities" is the title. The committee does not propose any changes or additions to the government proposal. The committee focused on two areas: information system projects and the municipal economy. Firstly, the report deals with the development of information systems as a prerequisite for improving public services and significant savings targets. These relate in particular to the reform of social and health services, but also to other public administrations. The committee welcomes the approach of the reform of self-government to establish common national ict services and the Ministry to guide their development. Similarly, it is important that the government has launched a leading project on the digitisation of public services, which will amount to EUR 27.5 million next year, which will be used, inter alia, for the development of the national service architecture. This includes the development and management of a gateway, electronic identity, information security and service prospects. The gateway includes high expectations and progresses. In this context, the Committee points out that the development of e-services should take into account those population groups which do not have access to online banking credentials based on the bank's customer relationship. Mr President! Secondly, the committee focused on the state contribution of municipalities to the provision of basic services. Local government finances are expected to remain tight in the coming years, although next year central government measures will strengthen local government finances by around EUR 290 million. There will be no further cuts in central government shares. The central government share percentage is going up slightly. Approximately EUR 9 billion is proposed for the provision of basic municipal services, which is EUR 486 million more than in the actual budget of the current year. In total, approximately EUR 11 billion will be allocated to state aid by municipalities and joint municipal boards next year. The committee notes the strong change in the operating environment in the municipalities. In addition to the ageing of the population and the general economic downturn, immigration and the cost of long-term unemployment will increase the pressure on the sustainability and functioning of the service structure. Both the backwardness of integration benefits and labour market policies require careful examination. According to the information received by the committee, municipalities now have some 610 tasks and 973 obligations. The Government’s top project will reduce the costs of municipalities by EUR 1 billion by reducing these statutory tasks and the obligations that guide their implementation. There will be no new tasks or obligations and extensions without full funding from the State. That is what the committee attaches great importance to. The Committee encourages the Government to launch municipal trials to improve the productivity of services and considers it important to promote active local government economic policies and measures to improve vitality in order to safeguard the economy and services. Mr President! In this context, I would like to thank the Minister and the Section for Local and Regional Health for their good work and constructive work on this dossier. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u432	Madam President! Let me introduce you to this item. Customs operating expenditure, amounting to approximately EUR 170 million. This appropriation is nearly EUR 7 million more than in 2015. The bulk of the change in the budget, or EUR 5.4 million, relates to the overall reform of EU legislation-based customs clearance systems. Customs clearance must be fully electronic by 2020 across the EU. The Committee welcomes the fact that the proposal includes an increase of EUR 4 million in the area of internal security. This appropriation is intended to continue to monitor the import of batches of excess alcoholic beverages. According to a report received by the committee, there is also a need to improve customs controls in relation to the ordering of alcoholic beverages via the Internet. The advantage of the national economy as a whole is that alcohol tax revenues can be collected in a comprehensive way and the informal economy can be curbed in this respect. The Committee stresses that the adequacy of customs control resources must also be ensured with regard to other illegal imports, such as tobacco, medicines and drugs. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the duties of Customs have also increased as a result of the increase in the number of asylum seekers. It is a good thing that the costs of enhanced customs control are included in the draft budget and the committee considers it important that these expenses continue to be reimbursed. Mr President! In this connection, I would also like to thank the members of the Section for Administration and Security for their good cooperation and, of course, the Minister for the very flexible way in which things have been prepared. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u433	Then Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u434	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Here we heard the section president, Mr Kankaanniemi, telling us that, in the Committee on Finance, the section on local government and health focused particularly on this municipal economy and digitalisation, and I have read your position on this point in the report and I fully agree with it. I think that it contains an essential account of what we should now take a position on here on the part of the government and as a Parliament as a whole. As far as municipalities are concerned, I have two points to make. First of all, after a great deal of debate this autumn on these various savings, which has come from the government side, I would say that we have not done any central government cuts in the municipalities, and that is an important thing overall. However, we have been able to ensure that municipalities are able to provide basic services in their own municipalities. And a few weeks ago, when it came to what municipalities are doing to their own tax rates, it seems that for ten years there has not been as little increase in tax rates as now. But at the same time, I would like to say straight away that the tax rates in the municipalities are quite high. That we can't afford to lift them at all. Then there is another point about the municipalities: I note that no matter what decisions we take here for the municipal economy and for services, the big basic decisions are always made in every municipality. I do not think that we alone have a responsibility here as to how the municipalities can and how things are going in the municipal economy as a whole. Thirdly, perhaps with regard to these major reforms: You know that we have five government reforms set out in the Government Programme, all of which are very substantially linked to the municipalities, or at least four are essentially related. The first is, of course, this social reform. The second is the reform of regional administration, which also discusses the tasks that municipalities and joint municipal boards organise. The third is the matter of the municipality of the future and the fourth is the reduction of the duties and obligations of municipalities. And when we have talked about this parliamentary preparation here today, I would say that both for this municipality of the future and for the reform of regional government we are about to set up just this week, next week — I know that groups will still be dealing with these proposals at some point this week — their own representatives in these parliamentary working groups, but they should move on. As far as the reform of the administration is concerned, I think it is very important that all the parliamentary parties are involved in this work as a whole. Mr President! Then I thought that I would say a few words about this digitalisation, which has been well written in this report and also identified in a little more detail, to which the committee feels that particular attention should now be paid: that is, with regard to the national service architecture, the gateway, the electronic identity, information security and the development and management of the service prospects. I recall that the last week here in Question Time there was a debate on some of this electronic identification and the fact that, when these BICs are missing, how can this digitalization all in all progress? First of all, I would like to emphasise the government's policy that digitalisation should be made everyday. We must not look primarily at digitalisation from the point of view of the system, but we must look at it from a citizen's point of view, that is to say to make systems that are as easy to use as possible, so that people can also carry out those electronic services here on the side of public services and with sufficient ease. I would like to point out here that the Finnish solution — once we have done this electronic identification in a different way from what has been done in Estonia on market terms — is actually a more modern solution than what has been done in the south of our country overall. But, as has already been said here, we must also ensure that we find the means of support so that it can be done to those for whom this is not possible for one reason or another. I note that we have as many as 400,000 people who do not have bank accounts at the moment, not everyone has wanted and is not able to take. But we must now be able to quickly ensure that people are able to make this electronic identification, and then very quickly to take care of this authorisation so that another person can do for those who are unable to do so themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u435	It is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I'd like to request representatives to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u436	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister and to the section presidents for their presentation. Indeed, the time for reform seems to be coming, and good luck and success to the Minister for these projects. But then to this day. Here already, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, we discussed what is happening at the external borders of Europe and what is being realised today in the municipalities of Finland, that is, there is an uncontrolled entry, but in Finland this situation has been better taken over. Of course, this is least of all the fault of the municipalities, but in practice the municipalities bear the greatest responsibility for the integration of asylum seekers, including the organisation of basic education. How do you feel, Minister, that this budget is enough at the moment? For example, how much has been estimated at the cost of the necessary health checks and the necessary health care, which is already mandatory for the general population? So what kind of cost pressures might this put on the health sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u437	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation of where we are going. Of course, I would also like to thank the government for the first time in four years that this budget will be a strengthening of the local government economy, and it will be strengthening it throughout the spending limits period. This is indeed a very big issue to alleviate the plight of local government finances. I also hope, of course, that this 100% State aid guarantee will be respected and that there will be no new obligations without 100% State aid. Then I would like to ask the Minister how this part of the EUR 1 billion decommitment is going. The second question relates to bilingualism in municipalities. In my opinion, it is a little strange that the only Sámi-qualified municipality in Finland, the Utsjoki, is not covered by bilingualism in the state-owned system. Could it possibly get there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u438	Madam President! Finnish municipalities are now facing the biggest reform in their history, already for the fifth year. The Government's proposals on so-called social welfare reform and municipal reform will change when they come into effect the Finnish municipal democracy, which we have practically had in force in other Parliaments since 1863 here in Helsinki. In the event of a shift from municipal self-government to provincial government to so-called self-government regions, more than 60% of the municipal tasks are transferred from the local self-government known today to larger areas. I ask the Minister: is there a situation at the end of this kind of development that there will be 18 municipalities in Finland in the future, and these models, which are currently being implemented, are just an historic step-by-step when we move into larger municipalities? I do not know whether this was the aim of the current government, but this is what the picture may look like when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u439	Mr President! The fact that the government is now taking care of local government finances is of great value in this situation. Now benefits have to be cut in order to make central government finances fit, but now the central government shares of municipalities are certainly not being cut for a long time. This means that the tax pressure of municipalities will not increase. As the Minister said, the pressure is historically low compared to recent years. On the other hand, municipalities are better placed to meet the obligations they still have, i.e. services targeting the most vulnerable, i.e. children, pupils, the sick, the elderly and the unemployed. Now that the situation in society is indeed difficult otherwise, for those in these services this government line deserves special commendation and recognition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u440	Mr President! After all, we in Finland have historically had their own information systems in many small municipalities, different service providers and service providers having their own systems that do not talk to each other. I think it is very important and valuable that this national gateway project should proceed. We are still on the back way to the X-Road in Estonia, but it is good that the first applications of the national gateway started in November and the button has been pressed. This is a project launched by the previous government. It is now important to develop electronic identification and so on. Significant savings are also available here, as the central government spends EUR 2 billion a year on IT projects and software usage fees. Then, at least small entrepreneurs come to mind from these uses, because strict bureaucracy and paper drummers overburden small entrepreneurs. All notifications to public authorities, pension institutions and other necessary bodies must be made electronically and centrally. Introduction of a real-time income register
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u441	Mr President! Now that these social and self-government areas are coming, there will be changes in funding. The central government shares of social welfare and health care are apparently allocated slightly differently, and there may also be changes in the tax system in some time horizons. How do you estimate, Minister, how difficult it is for municipalities to adjust their own income tax rate so that the overall tax rate in the whole country will not rise?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u442	Madam President! I would have asked what the constitutional status of these autonomous regions will be in the future. This debate takes place in South Karelia, among other things, when we consider the role of the municipality in relation to the Autonomous Community and whether there will be any kind of connection or corporate governance or anything like that in the future, and what is the relationship between the Autonomous Region and the State, how this self-government region is now, in a way, set up between these levels and different service packages and decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u443	Mr President! It is good that the central government shares of municipalities are not being cut now and that efforts are being made to strengthen the local government finances, for example, by reducing the statutory tasks and obligations of municipalities. Thus, the municipalities are given more consideration, their own discretion to organise their services within the framework of their resources. When the local authorities were asked what they would be willing to relocate, at least in my own town there were very many suggestions about those tasks. I would like to ask the Minister how these things are going, when decisions will be made. The second point concerns the entry in the Government Programme, according to which the government is investigating the transfer of employment services and resources to municipalities for the most difficult persons to employ. Minister, could this issue also be considered as a matter of responsibility for the self-government regions to be set up?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u444	Madam President! There have been very similar speeches here, and that is what I am going to use, and that is what I thank the government and the Minister for the fact that the pain of the municipalities has been taken into account in this difficult situation, that these sections of the state are not really being reduced. I myself have been a municipal decision-maker for several years, and we have been agonizing with these things and always wondered how much they will cut again, so we are really grateful for that. I fully agree with Mrs Vehviläinen that these municipal tax rates are sufficient. We, too, in Hyvinkää, were able to maintain that tax, and let us hope that we do not have to raise it. Of course, all these government measures to reduce the role of municipalities will certainly help, and that freedom of choice can be exercised, but it is flexible. Mr Mattila asked a very relevant question about these costs of immigration in school and day care. I am happy to hear your views on this. Of course, this is a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u445	Mr President! Future social reform will be the biggest challenge in the near future, and in order to achieve savings targets, public services will work and citizens, as well as public and private actors alike, will be able to rely on the flow of information and its lack of integrity, the development of information systems is essential. The Government has launched a leading project on the digitisation of public services, which will amount to EUR 27.5 million next year, including the development of a national service architecture. Issues related to this form an integration between systems and there must be functional interfaces between the different systems. And as you said, Minister, this is a big deal. People who do not use digital services must also be taken into account. But above all, this is also a very expensive project. I would have asked, Minister: how is this project scheduled, and what kind of follow-up can we have on the progress of this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u446	Madam President! I'd have asked about the Ict projects, too. The Sote solution brings together, among other things, joint national ict services. However, public ict projects have been severely criticised in recent years. It has been said that there has been no adequate cost plan, no proper management system, a lack of decision-making process, no financial planning, no linework in the overall architecture, and no projects have been managed in different working groups and consulting-driven. I would like to ask: In 2014, the total cost of ict activities amounted to EUR 727 million, and certainly there will be a lot of costs in the future. The Audit Committee has also taken a position on this, and there is still something to be corrected there. This activity is, among other things, too technologically oriented and the development of cooperation between the authorities has not been effective enough. How, then, do you see in the future that these costs remain within reasonable limits?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u447	Madam President! The reduction in the tasks and obligations of municipalities is a good objective and has been achieved since the 1990s. During every government term, it has been set as a goal, and then there has always been a challenge. My concern now lies in what was voted on this morning: given that the need for resources from early childhood education has already been thought to be reduced, more than a thousand people, this has already been recognised out of the municipal state shares, because it has been registered there. This is not how it happens that when tasks are reduced, the money will be reduced first before the tasks actually decrease? Two major concerns are on the local government side: one is the long-term unemployed, of whom I wonder what the future financing model and guidance for municipalities will be. And the second is integration and, of course, language training in addition to this organisation of health care and education. How can adult language training be organised for integration?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u448	Madam President! The committee has also stated in its report that a strong increase in the number of immigrants will significantly increase the cost of municipalities and that integration compensation has also fallen well short of overall price developments. Once it is known that the unemployment rate for immigrants is much higher than for the population, we know that in the future there will be a significant number of immigrants in the long-term unemployed, in the form of fines and in the field of social security in the municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: how will the Ministry of Finance’s administrative sector be prepared for the costs of the dramatic increase in future immigration by municipalities? As an example in Lahti, 1000 new long-term unemployed people cost approximately EUR 10 million a year to the city's economy. This is the amount corresponding to a tax increase of around 0,7 %.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u449	Still representatives of Saarikko, Savio, Turunen, and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u450	Mr President! In my opinion, this government's initiative has left its understanding of the overall picture of public finances to be overlooked. We do not transfer problems from the state to the local authority, but public finances are a whole. And it is understandable that the municipalities are now welcoming this change with joy, unlike during the last term of government, and this objective of reducing tasks is also desirable for the municipalities. However, since Minister Vehviläinen is responsible not only for municipal tasks but also for reform and related experiments, I would have liked to ask the Minister: Where are these experiments in relation to the municipal court at the moment? Is there any way they're being funded? How are they supported? And what do you consider to be the most significant experiments in relation to the coming year? I think it's a worthy action. We cannot yet know what will succeed and what will be good, and that is why this should be done. I think that it is the municipalities that play a key role here, and that they are right to blame for being able to do this work, when only now is the government giving the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u451	Mr President! I thank the Minister for his commendable presentation. The state of local government finances has indeed been very tense in recent years and has also been influenced not only by the local government's own activities but also by the central government's cuts in central government shares and the increased functions of municipalities. Unfortunately, during the last government year, some of the savings needed to rebalance central government finances fell on the shoulders of municipalities and, despite the opposite, the tasks of municipalities could not be reduced. Fortunately, the current government has made it one of its tasks to strengthen local government finances and also to set targets for the balance of local government finances. Part of the measures are the dismantling of standards, which invests in reducing the obligations of municipalities. I would therefore ask the Minister of State to specify the timetable within which these standards are currently progressing, and as a second point, I would like to ask what measures the government intends to take to help and enable the municipalities to strengthen their industrial policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u452	Madam President! Minister! I myself drew attention to this digitalisation. It will certainly provide significant savings in the context of social security. I believe that digitalisation will provide fair savings compared to the current situation. We medical districts have their own systems, and often they do not even shake hands with each other. When the minister mentioned that we have 400,000 people who do not use these identification services, I believe that almost all — over 300,000, I think 360,000 citizens — do not have credit records. These people have not received bank IDs and cannot therefore use them. When the Minister mentioned this identification that there would be some changes to it, what kind of concrete changes did you now mean so that these 400,000 people could be identified by a method other than bank identification?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u453	Then, Minister, please. Five minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u454	I'll start with those that had more than one question. First of all, with regard to this immigration: we are in a whole new situation. This challenge is much greater than we have had so far in terms of integration. As far as these cost assessments and these social and health services and education services are concerned, I am not in a position to answer directly. These estimates are particularly available in the Ministry of Education and Culture. But then I would like to say that, when we announced these government policies on these asylum seekers a week ago, it is quite clear that we must also clarify our positions on this issue of integration in the same way. This challenge is so much greater and we will have thousands and thousands of people here in the coming months, for whom integration must be resolved. For example, even though adult language training is something for which we have not had a working model so far. All in all, then, we must introduce new ways. Then here came this role of autonomous regions in relation to the municipalities, Mr. Kiljunen asked. It is one of the most important issues, because we have two self-government regions — that is the municipality, and then it is the new self-government region of the province — and we now have to consider what the relationship between them will be in the coming months of preparation. Of course, they are not mutually exclusive; they must be complementary. And when a representative comes from the world of Eksote, where this cooperation has already been done at the regional level, he knows that it is extremely important, even on the health side, that if the municipality has a role in promoting well-being and health, then that connection will remain with the social side as well. And this is what we need to be able to solve together. As far as the state is concerned, there is also the fact that the state will have strict direction in relation to, among other things, the ict and digitalisation side. And I think it should be, because I think there was a representative here, Mr Karimäki, who told us what problems we have had here in terms of ict and digitalisation. At this point, we need that strong government direction. Well, as a rule, the government is also likely to finance these self-government regions, and then we will have to think on the other side about what the right self-government is in those provinces. It cannot be that everything is controlled by the State and that the State is still funding and there is nothing to do there. These are the big questions I think we should be able to solve during the winter. As far as digitalisation is concerned, there are still a few points to make, and I would really like to correct, if it is all right — I hope the authors of the report do not like it — and I would be a little more specific when this national service architecture came into play. It was pointed out that it has already been put into motion in the previous government, it is, and it will have the whole until 2017, EUR 100 million, and next year it will be EUR 27 million in the budget, it will be right, and it will be on its schedule. When it is said that we are lagging behind Estonia in that: we have taken this X-Road solution from Estonia, and it will not be the five, but the six, so that, in fact, we will obviously go ahead of the Estonian model. Well, in addition to this national service architecture, we will then have EUR 100 million as a key project for these projects to promote the public dimension of digitalisation, the first of which will be the start of next year in this national income register. EUR 5 to 6 million has been set aside in next year's budget and other projects will be selected early next year. Now I have so many questions here. Of course, I won't be able to answer all of them, but I'll say a few more. Here. My corner asked me and someone else asked about this in terms of qualifiering the duties and obligations of municipalities. That work has not been easy, but we have an ambitious goal that by the end of this year we will have a programme of measures. We have been doing it all autumn, and the government has already dealt with it several times. We will then probably come to the end of January, as long as now a few weeks have been worked out and spent on Christmas holidays, all in all. Then — and I wonder what I can answer — well, with regard to this criticism in connection with this digitalisation, I say that this has been the case, but it is the Kapa, the national service architecture and the new policies that will reduce this. And I would like to mention this war, which is of enormous importance because we are able to coordinate these systems and also by involving private operators in the same system. We can no longer make such systems that do not talk to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u455	Then some of these replies will be made. If I may ask you to press the V button, let us all take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u456	Madam President! In this previous round of responses, it was precisely this future role of the self-government regions that emerged in comparison with the role of its foundation, and the doubts or fears as to whether only 18 municipalities will come to Finland now are completely unnecessary. After all, Finland is taking a major step here, first and foremost, towards such a European and international municipal structure, which has more regional or regional areas which carry out certain tasks, and then at the basic level certain tasks are carried out. Finland will enter this kind of international time with regard to the municipal structure in my opinion. But then I would have liked to ask in this connection, perhaps this is also the area of administration of the STM: When it comes to large building masses in the hospital district and municipalities, how is this issue of real estate masses about to be resolved? Will we have a national waste bank that will then collect them on its own balance sheet, or how will it be managed in relation to the Autonomous Community and the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u457	Mr President! Customs tasks are very diverse. Customs and its staff are, in fact, a lot of guards. Customs tasks have also increased with the increase in the number of asylum seekers. Customs is also involved in curbing the shadow economy by monitoring, among other things, imports of excess alcoholic beverages. There would also be a need for more efficient customs controls in relation to the ordering of various items via the Internet. Mr President! Almost EUR 7 million more is proposed for Customs' operational expenditure next year than this year. That's a good thing. An increase of EUR 50 million will be allocated to internal security and justice, of which EUR 4 million will be allocated to Customs' operational expenditure. That's a good thing. But, Minister, do you see that: Customs can be maintained at the high level that is currently expected of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u458	Madam President! I am not moving on to my idea of self-government and to the competitions and all the other new forms of service provision, where money is being followed by the patient model at its worst. However, decisions are already being taken to reduce the competitiveness of municipalities with service providers by reducing the private service provider's health insurance contribution by 1.72 but this is not the same for the municipality. And when we know that, on the municipal side, pension contributions are already higher than those of private service providers, does this not distort competition when we are going to a world where there is supposed to be, or at least now it seems that more and more will be competing with the municipality, the public service, with these private service providers? And did you consider this extended, increased rate of corporation tax, which has now been twice and has unfortunately been dropped?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u459	Madam President! I myself stayed to think about this area of self-government and its possible taxation when I find this area of self-government in the Constitution, but I can only find a sentence there that the municipality has the right to tax. I ask the Minister, and if there is no answer now, you could sometimes tell this hall: does this self-governing region’s own taxation possibly require a entry in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u460	Mr President! There has been a laudable disregard here, perhaps with some concern, for this pressure on the local authority due to immigration. Another important theme that has emerged concerns employment and also the ability of the municipality to influence the long-term unemployment of residents of its municipality and its management. Otherwise, these things may not be very far apart, because the most important goal of immigration to achieve its success until integration is certainly in employment and in the meaning of life that can be found through it, and also in society and in its own municipality of origin. The government has acted in line with the fact that the municipalities themselves have been allowed to choose whether or not they want a reception centre in their municipality, and fortunately places have been found in the midst of this large number of people. Now, however, we are moving gradually over the next year, during this future budget, to the stage where the municipal level assumes responsibility for the integration phase. How, Minister, do you instruct municipalities to implement this integration and bring these people into the municipality, for example, through the same linguistic or cultural backgrounds to the same types of areas, that this pressure is not just in large cities when a few years pass?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u461	I would like to remind you here that quite a few people are now going to ask how we are going to proceed, that we are going to make a few more debatable remarks here, that is, those that had been asked. Then the Minister will answer. After that, we will move on to the Ministry of Finance's speaking list. Then we move on to the remaining list of the Ministry of Justice, and then we go in numerical order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u462	Madam President! I took the floor at the last debat to praise and thank the progress of the national gateway project. That is very important, because now we have software that does not talk to each other and it creates inefficiency. I said that the central government is now spending EUR 2 billion on software usage fees, which means that good savings and good objectives are now available through development, so that services can be made more efficient. I consider these projects important and worthy of support. I brought up this real-time income register to reduce the red tape of a small entrepreneur. I would ask the Minister if such a real-time income register can be promoted. This has also often been suggested by entrepreneurs to reduce their paperwork and bureaucracy. Then I would also like to ask in relation to these fees for the use of software, whether the state administration is promoting free and open software.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u463	Let me now list the people who have asked for a reply. They are representative Mika Kari, Mattila, Aalto, Turunen and Juvonen. Let's go in this order, then the minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u464	Madam President! According to the budget book, the State measures will strengthen the local government finances by around EUR 290 million. This is positive. But I would also like to point out that, although we are very happy to go here, especially on the part of the government, to praise the proposals and the criticisms of the opposition, the truth is that the local economy is still in deficit and will continue to exist. The reduction of EUR 1 billion in tasks and obligations is a major challenge, as the Minister said earlier. If we do not succeed, these challenges will also fall in the hands of the preparation of the next budget. Mr Paatero has already asked about the increased distribution of the corporation tax. I repeat the same question: would this be a tool in the future to address this deficit in local government finances? Well, let's just be brief, shall we? I noticed from the media, grabbed my eyes that in 1910 80 percent of New York residents lived.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u465	Mr President! The question of social reform or self-government reform. I did not fully understand whether 18 municipalities were coming here. Of course, even at the moment it is possible to assess whether the municipalities' decision-making powers and budgets have escaped to the joint municipal boards. I see somewhat differently the aim of this reform. But Mr Kari has just raised the issue of what is the situation today, that is, the tight economic situation in the municipalities. Minister, you said that the tax rates are in the tap, and yet we have a municipal law that requires a fairly strict deficit coverage and this kind of crisis municipal procedure. Do you now have an estimate of the number of municipalities that are going into crisis municipal proceedings today or in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u466	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. In this Chamber it has been repeated many times that the central government shares of municipalities are not being cut and, in this way, the financial position of municipalities is not being weakened. But we all know that local government finances are part of public finances and there are a lot of tightening-up measures to be taken towards public finances, on top of these coercive laws and all the others. Do you have some kind of overall assessment of how this government budget line will affect local government finances and local government finances, precisely the net impact? It doesn't matter if you say straight away that, hey, we don't tighten the finances of municipalities by cutting central government shares if the same thing happens in the other way and a little more. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister's view: what is the financial position of the municipalities, does it weaken with these proposals, or what will happen to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u467	I would like to add two of the speeches that have been asked, in addition to what I have just mentioned, namely the speech by Mr Taavitsainen and Mr Jokinen, but now by Mr Turuse. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u468	Madam President! The Minister spoke in his own speech, and a few representatives here have also raised the issue of division of labour between municipalities and self-government regions. As far as employment is concerned, at least I think so when I have followed this experiment of municipalities in employment, which has now ended — and hopefully these experiments will continue in this sector — that perhaps this will lead to the best player in this sector being the municipalities. It is very important to look at the situation of unemployment in the management of employment. Smaller municipalities that do not survive will certainly cooperate so that, through the working area, as a whole of its size, it will surely end with the best result. What kind of discussions have been held on this within the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u469	Madam President! A total of EUR 50 million will be allocated to internal security and justice, of which EUR 4 million will be allocated to: Customs operating expenditure. This appropriation is intended to continue to monitor the import of batches of excess alcoholic beverages. The duty is to assess, in the context of the import of alcohol, whether it is a tax-free passenger import or a commercial import, and it is based on an overall assessment, where the quantity of alcoholic products is only one criterion. On the basis of the study, measures to curb the commercial import of alcohol will also produce results, and I consider it extremely important that tax revenue from alcohol sales should also come to Finland. The increase in the appropriations allocated to customs' operational expenditure is also justified by the increase in the number of asylum seekers, and it is also important in this context that these expenses continue to be reimbursed. I would ask you, Minister: that 4 million seems to be small money when we talk here about many millions and billions. Is it enough money, and what is the situation there at Customs at the moment, how they are preparing for this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u470	And two more answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u471	Madam President! Minister! I have just listened carefully to the Minister's response to this digital identification possibility, i.e. other than through bank IDs, but can we still be able to understand in plain language whether this is going to become a civil right for our citizens and get rid of this bank ID addiction? It is very sad that in such a welfare society as Finland, we have people who currently do not even have this traditional card card. This can be seen, for example, when a person goes to the police department to get an identity card or passport and there is no way he can prove who he is, nor can he pay for it because he has not received money from the bank when he does not have an identity card. Especially our aging people
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u472	Congressman Jokinen. Then the minister responds, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u473	Madam President! It is a great thing that we are now moving forward with regard to these self-governing regions and also with regard to that social solution. Before doing so, however, we need to look at some of the questions raised by the municipalities in the border regions as to which self-government and social areas these municipalities belong in the border regions. It is, of course, influenced by the direction in which the residents of the municipalities are in contact, but I also think that it should be influenced by what central hospital district they have previously belonged to. I would now like to ask the Minister about the situation in the municipality of Iti at the borders of Kymenlaakso and Päijät-Häme. Iti municipality has long been a member of Päijät-Häme Central Hospital and has been involved in and developed by it, and there has been a referendum in which 93% of local residents would like to go to Päijät-Häme instead of the current Kymenlaakso. I would like to ask you at what stage these solutions will be made for municipalities in border regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u474	And then the minister, no more than five minutes. Then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u475	Mr President! In the previous round, I would also like to say to Mr Saariko about these experiments: these experiments on employment, which have had good experiences, have come up somewhere else, and I know that Minister Lindström is now preparing this extensive experiment, particularly for those who are difficult to employ, and I think that it is quite frankly the most important one. That any action that can be taken to get a person to work will go beyond all other matters. And I repeat what I said last week: I think it is important that we have proposals. Whether they are opposition or anything else, if they are smart proposals to promote employment, I believe that the government has a duty to take every proposal seriously and examine whether it is possible to move forward. And during the coming winter, in connection with this pilot activity, we will collect and move on with the experiments that promote the acceptance of work. Then to this new list of integration, how to guide it: As I have already pointed out, we also need a completely separate integration programme on the part of the government. Now that these past months have been difficult to do with the hand-to-mouth method for these asylum seekers, we must now assess the best means of integration. I think it has been a good starting point for us not to invest, so to speak, but for those who receive a residence permit from us to be located. I find it hard to think that we would order people to go to certain municipalities. From a human point of view, I understand that, if we are of the same nationality, we should apply to the same place — I think that if we were somewhere else in the world, we would also act — but I still think that we should perhaps seek some sort of means to compensate for the fact that the big cities alone are not the ones to which more immigrants come. That this is a really big question. Then there were many questions related to these social and regional government reforms: With regard to buildings, Mr Kulmuni, we have not made any decisions. It has a few different options and will be examined in more detail in the coming weeks. Mr Eestilä raised this possible right of taxation and constitutionality in the autonomous regions. The same is true in this regard: this is the precise statement right now that how this possible tax law would be implemented. My personal opinion is that it would be a good thing to have some tax law involved. I think it would be good not just for the government to provide funding. Then we would have a certain incentive element. And there is also the question of whether we want the self-government regions to become so that they only have the precise tasks laid down by law, or whether it can be that there is a so-called general sector in the self-government region. And Mr. Eestilä knows what we're talking about. After all, municipalities have a general sector of activity, i.e. the things that municipalities do, which are not legal, that is, the promotion of industrial policy, for example. That we have many things to see what we give to the provinces, to the self-government regions as a whole. The question was asked about the continuation of the corporation tax: we have not had a separate debate and have made a line on it. Representative Mattila asked for an assessment of this crisis settlement procedure: I think, if I look at what the situation is now and when you follow these closely, that there will be a few. On the other hand, I do not see a breakdown. And then, of course, this social welfare solution in 2019 may be as easy as it is for many municipalities, but I hope that each municipality will still evaluate its own finances with real precision and realism. I personally think that the most genuine way of doing this is to increase employment and to generate genuine tax revenues in the municipalities. That's the only way to really get to a sustainable foundation, all in all. Then, among other things, Mrs Jokinen asked about this municipality of Iti, and that is a very detailed question. I would like to say that there are about ten municipalities in the whole country in a slightly similar situation, and, of course, I am not in a position to comment on them individually. Now is the time for this consultation, and it is the deadline of 9 February, and then, of course, let us look at how these provinces are formed, and at least in the spring of winter we will be taking a stand on these municipal issues, even later, because it is only these general laws that are being prepared here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u476	All right, then let's move on to the list of speakers in Section 28, the Ministry of Finance's administration. And for those of you who have come after my recent report, I say that after this list has been reviewed, we will go back to the list of speakers in the Ministry of Justice's administration and then, in numerical order, these sections which have not been spoken. And at the end of the day, whether we still have this mid-term debate in the evening or in the morning, but then we will all certainly have drinks for that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u477	Madam President! As has been pointed out in this reply, we must also start by thanking the government for the first time in four years to strengthen the municipal economy. The fact that next year there will be almost EUR 300 million more for municipalities is not a small investment, and considering the entire spending limits period, the municipal finances will be strengthened by about EUR 0.5 billion, which means that this has been a clear choice of lines, and I am grateful to the government for not wanting to deepen the plight of local government finances. Of course, we must remember that the finances of municipalities and joint municipal boards remain very tight. Of course, this is only a small crumb of what we can get there when a check is made on the percentage of central government transfers of 0.03%, but it is also better than nothing. It is sad, of course, that indexes of state shares are being frozen, but that is not new at this difficult economic time. But the fact that state subsidies are not directly cut is a very important change. Then, of course, there is also the fact that there is now an annual distribution of costs between municipalities and the state and that the checks will start next year. Of course, they will be made on the basis of the figures for 2013, so that it will certainly take time for them to come to this day. But, of course, this is very important from the point of view, as has already been pointed out in the debates in the Chamber, that the economic situation of asylum seekers will not be seen as a whole until years have passed, once the integration process has started and see how it affects everywhere. As far as unemployment is concerned, there is of course a great deal of hearing about the marinated Kela fees and how they have exploded in the municipalities. After all, the Administrative Committee had also estimated that the proportion of municipalities in this year's unemployment management would reach EUR 440 million. It is certainly justified that some form of sanctions should be imposed on municipalities for the management of long-term unemployment. But how to make that funding available in some way also in order to strengthen the regional economy would certainly be worth considering, not, of course, with the intention of now starting to cover the unemployment services of the municipalities. In addition, I would like to point out that in such an economically difficult time it is of course good that we try to be creative and have taken up new techniques. And the fact that digitalisation is one of the government's top projects will also help the local government sector, which, in my opinion, is that through digitalisation, a lot of concentration activities should disappear. Of course, it also brings citizens more equal to services, as more and more of them go online. But we have to take into account what has also been mentioned in the poverty report that so far not all people will be able to access digital services, that is to say, this equality must be ensured that it will then be fully implemented. But I would also like to thank you for allowing trials in municipalities, because the country is very different from one another: regional differences can be taken into account in this way. Finally, on this major reform of self-government, which is obviously not directly linked to next year's budget book to such an extent, but it will probably be linked to each year's budget book for the next few years and decades. In my opinion, it is a great European line that we are now entering into a time when certain things are decided by the regions and the autonomous regions and by the municipalities. But it is important that the preparation takes account of the international comparisons and studies that have been carried out in different countries and takes only those good things from there and not those bad things, because there has also been something to see, such as in Sweden, how services have then been concentrated at regional level. Mr President! Here's my speech. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u478	Madam President! I will speak more broadly about the section and taxation, but since there is a Minister for Reform here, I will draw attention to a reform that has not been carried forward by the government. Prime Minister Sipilä said recently in this Chamber that one tool for balancing public finances has been left out of the box and that is taxation. The government has stated that no one's taxation will increase and the tax rate will not increase. This self-imposed restriction leads to a policy of invisibly cutting and equally poor performance in taxation. The government speaks big words about structural reforms, but why does it not make tax restructuring? If Finland moves even one step closer to the European tax structure, then the tax rate does not even have to rise. In the SDP's tax model, the tax revenue is 750 million higher than in the government's proposal, but also the tax reduction extended to pensioners and the reduction in occupational pension contributions for both employees and employers will result in an impact of 0.0% on the tax rate. Compared to the international level, Finland taxes work and consumption more heavily than elsewhere in Europe, but the property is clearly lighter. According to Statistics Finland's calculations, Finland could tax ownership more than EUR 5.5 billion, thus reaching the EU average: not tighter, not lighter, but average. In other parts of Europe, it has been understood that work and production should not be taxed as heavily as in Finland, but non-mobile capital should be mobilised. Unfortunately, the government does not think of any other way of seemingly balancing the economy apart from cuts from children, pensioners, the sufferers and the weakest. But it doesn't have to. It's a choice of values. Responsible taxation is needed to balance public finances. The effect of the government’s plans to impose laws and wage reductions, which will reduce tax revenues by nearly one billion, and, to top it all, the reduction in wages would be offset by a tax reduction of 2 billion. This is irresponsible taxation, which deliberately increases the deficit and weakens the position of public finances. [ The minister was about to leave the hall. ] But why is taxation the only area where no restructuring is envisaged? Of course, the unfortunate conclusion would be that the government wants to favour high-income, large-income companies and certain interest groups. That would leave the balancing of the country's economy in second place in any case. Let me take just one example: the financial sector is exempt from VAT. If you go to the kiosk and buy a Geisha bar, VAT will be paid on it, but no tax will be levied on the bank's business. Among other things, large investor George Soros has stated that the tax exemption from the financial sector is unfair. The international tax on securities trading, the FTT, seems politically impossible, and many economists do not even consider it a good model. For example, Professor Pertti Haaparanta considers this business tax, the financial activities tax, the FAT, to be a more reasonable and undistorted tax. Denmark has had a financial tax since the 1990s. Its effects have been examined and the Bank of Denmark has not identified any adverse effects on the price of services or on the competitiveness of financial institutions. In Norway, the Financial Services Committee has proposed a financial tax. In Sweden, the government has already announced that it will prepare and implement a financial tax. So when the Swedish example is invoked in everything — when in the employment rate, when in the local agreement — why do we not cooperate with Sweden and other Scandinavian countries on a common Nordic financial tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u479	Representative Meri, reply. At this point, there is only one reply. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u480	Thank you, Madam President. When we were talking about taxation, I would like to raise this point, which was pointed out here one day by Mr Ville Vähämäki of the Committee on Finance, when these SDP taxes were discussed that, once these SDP tax deductions have been calculated, they would favour well-earned people at the expense of low income earners. This had calculated a deduction model that a family of two children earning EUR 2,300 a month will receive an additional EUR 12 and a family earning EUR 3,300 will receive an additional EUR 25. So we've been wondering how well-paid people get more in this. In this statement, the low hill highlighted the need for lower incomes to receive more. That if we're talking about this ideology, I think it's pretty special.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u481	That is the answer, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u482	Thank you, Mr President. There is clearly a misunderstanding here. The SDP tax model favours middle-income employees more than the government tax model — in other words, Finns with average income. But the government's income reduction benefits the well-earned, unlike the SDP's income reduction. The government's income reduction extends to those who earn EUR 119000 a year, which means that, as has been said many times in the Chamber, even an experienced MP will receive a lighter tax in the government model than this year. In a situation where all Finns, and especially the underprivileged, are called upon to sacrifice themselves for joint projects, the taxation of MPs is reduced. The SDP model is fairer and benefits 97.5 per cent of Finnish employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u483	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u484	Mr President! Exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation has already been raised to the top projects of many governments, and the ict projects will also play a major role in our future, including this social solution. In that previous speech, I drew attention to the cost of ict services, which have been very high for years. In 2014, the total cost of ict activities amounted to EUR 727 million and, at the same time as the costs increase, there has been some criticism of the project's progress. Among other things, the Audit Committee has on several occasions taken a position on these issues: the lack of adequate cost monitoring, the lack of an adequate management system, problems in decision-making procedures, lack of financial planning, and the fact that projects have been managed by different working groups and by consultants. This is something that we should be concerned about in the future too — it is a bottomless well that leads to the creation of an ict project — and monitor these costs so that they are not going to be quite impossible in the future, because the social reform brought about the need for all the projects to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u485	Mr President! Finland's economy has been in deficit for the past six years. Finland’s debt figure has already risen to around EUR 100 billion, and Finland’s weak longer-term growth prospects make it even more worrying, accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of people of working age and an industry struggling with structural change. The draft budget now under discussion for next year will be an integral part of the Government's programme to balance the Finnish economy. The Government is committed to closing the sustainability gap in public finances by EUR 10 billion during the current government term. We have come to a situation that cannot be overcome simply by saving and making reforms. Real efforts are needed to improve competitiveness and employment. Mr President! Some of the decisions to be taken are painful, and no one makes them lightly. The unsustainable number of asylum seekers also poses their own additional challenges to the sustainability of the government budget as well as to how justified the Finnish people feel the austerity measures are. In this context, it is essential to be able to find those persons who are in need of the right assistance among asylum seekers and to send the standard of living surfers back on their way home as soon as possible. The last steps announced by the government to tighten up the interests of asylum seekers and their access to them are more than necessary. Minister Vehviläinen has just said here that integration challenges are great and challenging. They need to be specified and perhaps even a new model applied for adult language training. In particular, I am concerned about how the participation of these women for asylum in language and other training will be managed. It is very important to draw attention to the fact that they are guaranteed access to training. Could this language training and other education be somehow measurable, objective? It could also give these students more desire to study and get results. In fact, I have heard from the industry that those who take part in these language or other trainings are very lax about these trainings: they do not take classes or do not take finals. For years, immigration within the country has been a nightmare for the authorities in the metropolitan area. In up to a few weeks, immigrants placed elsewhere in Finland have travelled to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and to services. Mr President! As decision-makers in municipalities, we know that the finances of municipalities have almost been cut to a breaking point. As Minister Vehviläinen said, there is little room for withdrawal in municipal tax rates. The Minister explained that the programme of measures to reduce municipalities' responsibilities will be completed by the end of this year. We'll get some new information on it next year. In municipalities, this list is impetuously awaited. Thank you to the government for the fact that, in the current economic situation, the central government shares are not being cut from the current level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u486	Madam President! In my day, when I set out to pursue the role of representative, my goal was — and still is — to come up and build, not to break up. This is the principle that I want to stick to and ask myself: what do I build and what kind of society do I want to leave to my children? The central government budget is the most important value barometer in society. It values citizens and services and the relationship between them. The future of Finland can be viewed from many perspectives. The Sipilä government has taken up the work by identifying the facts and choosing to take a strong hold on the structures that hinder change, obstacles to taking up work, investing in new technologies and putting environmental technology at the forefront of development projects. I want to be a part of this job. Here are a few questionable marginal markings on the issues in which Finland has the honour of being first in the world: Finland is the fastest ageing people in Europe. Finland’s birth rate is one of the lowest in Europe. Finland is the fastest indebted people in Europe. The growth of unemployment in Finland is the fastest in Europe. Finland is the least attractive country for investors in the euro area. There are relatively more subsidiaries in Finland than in other European countries, which has led to the benefits of Finnish work and profits for other countries than Finland. This list is so important that every Member of Parliament should look at this state budget, this tight budget, through such facts. Mr President! Finland is the world's most educated people, who are becoming Europe's most famous retirement village, where everyone will soon live on basic income. But "Where's the money?" is the right question. I believe that, in the face of this mute list, every Member of Parliament will have to humbly acknowledge that the solutions proposed by any party alone are not enough to bring Finland up, but that we all have to swallow the political goals that are important to us and put the nation's future at the centre of security and that a new era of political culture must be found. Together we are more, together we will build a new future for Finland. I just came from an EK event where we went over these parameters, which are these strict facts. We are not going bankrupt, but this weak relationship between us and all the other countries in Europe now — which are growing, but we are not growing — will mean that if we do not bring about this leap towards the loss of competitiveness, which is said to be 15%, and if we do not now take these important measures, then in three or four years' time the need for it will be 20%, and I do not know what we will be able to do then. So all these difficult decisions that we now have before us must be made. Mr President! Almost all parties have been responsible before this government, and the results are not worth cheering for. Do we dare to acknowledge this fact? We are living in a strong economic downturn and a change in working life and we need more efficient practices. And here, Mr President, I would like to stress that efficiency must not only be based on economic values, but also on a human perspective. Well, well-being doesn't just mean euros in the cash register. Well-being means happy, well-being people. In other words, it would not be wrong, even if the last line in the state budget were required by a nation that was treated humanly. Mr President! We must never lose sight of this objective. Have people been cared for and well - being in such a way that a good and rewarding life is guaranteed for them? Now is the time for tough decisions, and that is what I am prepared to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u487	Mr President! As this list of speakers progressed rapidly, I did not intend to prolong it, but I would like to take the floor briefly on this important issue, and I think that this new role of the municipalities has been highlighted in this debate. In the past, former Minister Risikko, who is currently Vice-President, has already considered the future municipality and the new role of the municipality already during the previous phase of the social welfare reform, and this subject is now being put into practice and is becoming very relevant: how does the new division of tasks take place between the state, regions and municipalities? It may have been somewhat overshadowed by this debate on social welfare reform, which is what the municipalities are, and also by the way in which the funding of municipalities — now that the budget debate is taking place — will take place in the light of the fact that current funding, both in the state and in tax revenue, will be used for social and health services either themselves, indirectly through the municipal consortium or through the financing of specialised medical care services through hospital districts. I think it is very important that we consider together on a broad basis what the municipalities of the future are and also what are the factors in which their vitality is built, and also the role of promoting health and also the relevance of participating in the decision-making process of the municipality. That is why I also think the transfer of new tasks to municipalities, as if the addition of tasks in this area, after the wars have gone out, is such an idea that we should think more about. That is why the experiment on employment, which the Minister has raised and which has been highlighted in several speeches, is a very important step in the direction that municipalities can in future assume more responsibility for employment services close to everyday life, which are also closely intertwined with social services and industrial policy, and are an important entity in which municipalities would clearly like to assume more responsibility. I would like the government to take a very courageous approach to this example of Denmark, indeed through experiments, but even all employment services to the municipalities, and thus to build a new, strong municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u488	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer will now be given by Mr Arhimäki and others. on the question of transparency and regularity in the drafting of legislation, led by the Minister of Finance, and on the transmission of correct information to Parliament. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. Mr Arhinmäki will take the floor for the first time in the debate. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u489	Mr President! The question between the Left Alliance and the Green MPs draws attention to the transparency and regularity of drafting legislation and the transmission of the right information to Parliament. The intermediate question refers to my incorrect statement on the management register at Parliamentary Question Time on Thursday 26 November. The percentage I used in the debate for the percentage of positive public opinion was incorrect. This is the mistake I've apologized for. In the middle of the matter, I consider the assertion of knowing or repeating false information to be wrong and inappropriate. The intermediate issue contains a number of incorrect arguments which I would like to correct in this connection. The intermediate issue refers to the preparation of the management register. The management register allows investors to keep shares in different countries centrally. In practice, all the so-called old EU countries, with the exception of Greece, have already adopted it. The preparation of the Ministry of Finance's registration management started when a working group set up in 1999 proposed the introduction of a management registration. The model proposed at that time would not have ensured public and public information about the owners of shares held in Finland. In this draft opinion, ownership information would have continued to be publicly available. All the time, the problem has been to inform public authorities and the public about the shares held abroad by Finnish investors. However, even with the new draft proposal, the impression was established that the opening of the management registration "would allow for the hiding of holdings abroad". In other words, it was thought that the present system would offer better provisions to prevent the concealment of ownership. This view is wrong. Anyone who wants to own shares through the management register can do so through foreign service providers already now. As far as domestic shares are involved, this can certainly be considered contrary to the spirit of the law. However, it is neither punitive nor manifestly illegal, nor is it an obstacle to an operator whose purpose is, in principle, illegal. In his own speeches, the VM did not want to highlight the weaknesses of current legislation or the possibilities of tax evasion. These weaknesses cannot be addressed by national legislation alone. On the other hand, the VM referred to an interpretative section of the EU Regulation, which was considered to be an obligation to amend domestic law. I've done this myself. This was a mistake, and it led the conversation to the wrong path. It was decided to debate whether or not EU law is necessary to amend the law, rather than to discuss what is in Finland's interest. The expert reports on the management register have always been publicly available. Everyone may have visited them themselves and drawn their own conclusions. A summary of the opinions has yet to be sent to all the Members of Parliament. The categorical division of opinions into positive, negative or neutral is very difficult because they highlight a number of different issues. The risk of categorising is always misinterpretation. The categorisation of statements made by Helsingin Sanomat can also be considered incorrect. For example, it was estimated that the Financial Supervisory Authority, on the basis of its opinion, reacted negatively to the authorisation of management registers in Finland. However, this did not reflect the position of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Financial Supervisory Authority tried to correct this misunderstanding, but the correction was ignored in the media. In addition to the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Bank of Finland and the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority took a positive position on the key authorities for the opening of management registration. The concerns expressed by the authorities must be taken seriously. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the authorities make a statement on the proposal from the point of view of their sector of activity. The role of the VM is to assess the interests of society as a whole. The Ministry's view was, and remains, that opening up domestic management registration would make domestic storage competitive, open to the public and public authorities, and would ensure the preservation of ownership at home, thus preventing, for example, the tax administration's concerns about the transfer of custody abroad. From the point of view of the opposition, false accusations have also been made that, as a minister, I have pursued the cause of some of my party's alleged close associates. This has been proven by the fact that the draft law contains the same text as the financial documents. First of all, I would like to point out that the purpose of the consultations is to take account of the views of the speakers. Secondly, the text in question has already been included in the management register proposal drawn up by the Minister of Finance during the Rinne period. Moreover, the allegations that the VM had acted in some way on the financial steering line are based on a complete misunderstanding of proportions. The value of domestic management registration as a business would have been small for banks. In recent years, the VM has prepared a large number of financial market legislation that has a much greater impact on financial interests. Decisions have largely been taken despite opposition from the financial sector. Mr President! The intermediate issue also refers to the communication and communication plan relating to the legislative project. The Ministry of Finance felt that the image of the performance was distorted and one-sided. For example, public opinion had come to the conclusion that the main purpose of the legislation was to allow for the concealment of ownership. But the truth is different. The real purpose of the law, the opening up of the securities market to competition, was completely forgotten. Public communications must be transparent, neutral and fair. It was justified that the public debate should aim to better highlight the actual content of the proposal and its economic impact. The project has also been communicated in an open, active and diverse way from the point of view of transparency of equity holdings and access to information by public authorities. The communication plan mentions two suppliers who had recently requested information on the progress of the project. They were offered access to the main points of the bill before the release of the Bulletin. In the end, neither of these journalists was able to make it, but they were replaced by other journalists. VM does not select journalists on the basis of their views. In order to avoid any future suspicion of equal treatment of suppliers, the VM has argued that from now on all events involving VM officials backing journalists will be open to all journalists. Although the Ministry of Finance's procedures and communications regarding the management register were not entirely successful, the motives for the operation were sound. The Ministry promoted the project in a way that was considered best to serve Finland’s overall benefit. Mr President! The intermediate question also quotes my statement on the deduction of housing allowance for pensioners. In its programme, the Government agreed to adapt the housing allowance for the pensioner to the general housing allowance. This sought savings of EUR 123 million. The government has decided to cancel this operation. The pensioner’s housing allowance will therefore remain its own system. In addition, another saving on housing allowance has been agreed in the Government Programme. The criteria for housing allowance are revised to reduce expenditure on general housing allowance by EUR 25 million per year, including the increase in income support expenditure. The saving will be achieved by increasing the income dependency of the basic provision for general housing allowance and by applying the maximum housing expenditure in 2016. At the same time, the maximum housing costs and spending standards of the pensioner's housing allowance would also be maintained at the level of 2015. This corresponds to the proposed amendment to the Act on general housing allowance. The intermediate issue therefore confuses two different savings. Housing allowance for pensioners and general housing allowance are not combined. In the supplementary draft budget for 2016, the compensatory measures have been sought elsewhere, just as I rightly stated in my opinion. Mr President! The intermediate issue also quotes my speech in a radio programme on the constitutional review of the competitiveness package. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy organised an informal discussion on the competitiveness package and invited key constitutional experts. Three experts participated in the event, representing both constitutional law and international issues. With some reservations, their position was positive. In particular, the provisions related to the sustainability of regulation. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy has also held discussions on other constitutional issues. At the end of this debate, the experts present were asked whether they would be prepared to give written expert opinions. The experts said that this could not be done on constitutional issues, but only on concrete proposals and on the whole. On the basis of the expert discussions conducted, a statement by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy on the legislative procedure has been drawn up. A memorandum on the order of rules has also been drawn up setting out the main reasons for this statement. The opinion and the official memo have been drawn up by officials who are familiar with labour law and constitutional law, from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Justice. Both documents can be found on the VM website. The Government has published its proposals on measures to strengthen cost competitiveness. This draft contains a very detailed assessment of the relationship between legislative proposals and the Constitution. A number of experts in law and constitutional law have been asked for written opinions. The Government is currently assessing the opinions issued and taking these into account in further preparation. The evaluation of the legislative order will eventually take place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In any event, the argument put forward in the intermediate question that expert opinions were not requested is incorrect. Mr President! The intermediate issue also highlights the process of preparing legislation and its development. This job is going on. The Ministry of Justice will be responsible for the development of the Government’s legislative drafting in accordance with the mandate laid down. The course of the drafting process with all its various stages is outlined in the preparation process guide. The Ministry of Justice is also in the process of reforming the consultation instructions for the drafting of legislation and the guidelines for the preparation of government proposals. Both instructions will be issued by the Government when the work is completed. The Government has also decided to set up a Board of Directors that evaluates the impact assessments of the Government's proposals. In particular, the Council's review will increase the transparency of the impact assessment and improve the quality of the assessments. This is a clear additional effort to improve the quality of impact assessments. The Council Regulation is expected to enter into force in the near future on 1. The President
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u490	Mr President! Let him who has not sinned cast the first stone out of you. At least I'm not flawless or sinless. I don't think any of us are. We all make mistakes. It's human. It is appreciated that mistakes are acknowledged and apologized for. But why is it not enough for Mr Stubb, the finance minister, to say'sorry about it', and then to apologise properly in front of Parliament? It is, of course, serious in itself that the Minister throws incorrect figures from his own head in front of Parliament, especially since, according to Prime Minister Sipilä, the statements on the management register had been reviewed by the chairmen of the government parties just before Question Time, where the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, gave false information about the statements. The intermediate issue is not just one of the misinformation reported on the ministerial box. This statement by the finance minister, Mr Stubb, was summed up in the unfortunate drafting of the law by him and the entire Sipilä government. It is not a matter of individual error or negligence. It is a recurring issue of giving false or biased information in order to pursue its own political objectives. The preparation of legislation must be based on an objective use of information and the impact of decisions must be assessed in advance as far as possible. This principle The Sipilä government has broken. Mr President! The opposition is very pleased that the management register has fallen. This was influenced by strong and tireless opposition criticism, opposition from the authorities, critical media and the activities of non-governmental organisations. I think even stage art had a part to play. However, these alone would not have been enough. Finally, the management register was overturned by the way the Finance Minister and the Ministry’s Financial Markets Department ran through the management register. The management register would have given us the opportunity to hide equity holdings. This would have given criminals more means to hide their property from the tax authorities, thus feeding off the foundations of the welfare state. The losers would have been all conscientious and honest citizens and entrepreneurs, the millionaires who hide their property as winners. Although the management register has now fallen, at least for this time, the process must be conducted in public through the root. The way in which the management register was run shows naked how the government is prepared to abandon the principles of good governance in order to promote the political objectives of individual parties. The register of directors was opposed, among other things, by the police, the prosecutor's office and the tax authority. Even the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance issued a very critical opinion on the management register. This is the statement the Treasury was trying to hide. The attempt at concealment, revealed by Helsingin Sanomat, finally started the process, which led to the collapse of the management register and to an interim debate on the functioning of the government. Mr President! The management register was pushed forward on the basis of false claims. It was claimed that the amendment of the EU Regulation requires a management register, even though Finland had specifically negotiated an exemption rule in the past. Under the exception provision, Finland does not have to legalise the management registration. It was claimed that information on equity ownership would now only be available about four times a year and that the management register would increase transparency. In fact, today information is available every day. It was also claimed that Finland has a monopoly on the CSD, even if anyone can already set it up. Here are a few examples of incorrect claims made in public by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, in order to justify the management register. It has also been revealed that the Communications Department of the Ministry of Finance has sought to divert attention from the negative effects of the management register on the publicity of equity holdings. The memo of the Ministry of Finance Communications, which reveals the morning paper, lists journalists who have been invited to conduct interviews with the management register. The document will also decide on a media tool that will receive background material from the drafting of the law in advance. According to the Ministry of Finance’s plan, a specific media will be selected for the Minister’s interview, for example. At the same time, the Communications Department tried to ban the management register event for a critically written supplier from the management register. These indicate that Parliament has not been sought to provide correct and fair information on the drafting of legislation and the statements made on it. There is also a lack of transparency and equity in the drafting of legislation and fair media access. This would already be a strong argument for the intermediate issue when Prime Minister Sipilä did not want to bring an own-initiative report on the preparatory processes for debate in Parliament. Mr President! However, it is not just a question of the ambiguities revealed in the preparation of one law. There are also similar ambiguities in the drafting of legislation by the Sipilä Government in a law project that is even bigger and more significant than the management register. The government is forced to cut employees' salaries. The pay and holiday allowances for sick periods are being cut and the right to leave is being limited. These cuts would be particularly affected by low-paid public sector women. However, the government has not carried out an assessment of the gender impact of the package. In general, laws aim to safeguard disadvantaged workers and to define minimum levels. The aim now is to support employers in a stronger position and to define maximum levels beyond which collective agreements must not be allowed to agree. As soon as these coercive laws were published, there was a suspicion that the laws might be contrary to the Constitution and international treaties approved by Finland. At the time, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, said that 'we were, of course, going through the matter with official responsibility, not only through the labour law professionals of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but also with the constitutional professors and others, that we were working within the framework of this law'. Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Labour Lindström have also assured us that the constitutionality of the laws has been examined with exceptional care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u493	Mr President! "The State in Finland belongs to a people represented by a delegation That is what our Constitution says about the heart of parliamentarianism. The functioning and relationship between Parliament and the government are clearly laid down in our Constitution. The government and ministers must enjoy the confidence of Parliament. Ministers are responsible to Parliament for their actions. The issue of the media is quite right to say that the minister must remain in the truth. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, has said that he has misinformed Parliament about the management register that was being prepared at the Ministry, but not knowingly. He has repeatedly apologized for what happened both in Parliament and in public. That is enough for the Parliament Group in the centre. Mr President! The mid-term issue also deals with the level of drafting and transparency. In recent years, the preparation of legislation has attracted attention from many quarters, including the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the National Audit Office. The problems were considerable during the last parliamentary term, when the interminers and the rest of the current opposition were in the government. The basic pillars of our society include clear and consistent legislation. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party believes that the principles of good lawmaking must be respected in all legislative drafting. They also include impartiality, transparency, adequate consultation and impact assessment. The Government has seen the importance of the matter and is setting up, in accordance with the Government Programme, a legislative impact assessment body whose task is to ensure the quality of the impact assessments of the legislation. On many occasions, the resources for drafting legislation have been found to be scarce. At this point, too strict savings are expensive. It is also legitimate to ask whether it is now time to restore the honour of the multi-member legislative body and to place it alongside the winding-up procedure. The preparation and communication of the Ministry of Finance’s management register has rightly raised questions. We therefore believe that the Ministry of Finance should carefully assess whether the principles of good lawmaking and governance have been respected in the preparation of the reform. Mr President! Finland is facing exceptionally serious problems and, as the highest decision-maker in the kingdom, Parliament has the last responsibility for making decisions. Therefore, all resources must now be put into the search for solutions. The only way to get Finland in order is to reform and settle, not to fight in vain. Many Finns are now concerned about their own, their loved ones and the future of this country. Now, if ever, we decision-makers must, across party and government and opposition boundaries, increase people's confidence that Finland's affairs are under control. Here again, the Parliament has a final responsibility. The most powerful tool in the opposition is an intermediate issue. The opposition has an inalienable right to use it. It would, however, be useful to always include in-depth consideration, an impact assessment. This autumn, in particular, the interim issue has been used rather loosely. Mr President! At any time, and especially at a time like this, attention should also be paid to Parliament's own activities and to strengthening the authority and confidence of this institution. According to the Constitution, a representative of the Parliament should appear firmly and with dignity. The long-standing President of Parliament, Mr Kyösti Kallio, whose activities have left a permanent mark on the work of Parliament, said strongly when he spoke at the Parliament's graduation in 1933, at a time when many attempts were being made to undermine Parliament and Parliament's authority. He said: "That is why each one should remember that the conduct of individuals, self-control and dignity of representatives depend on the quality of our work." He went on to say: "My conviction is that representatives individually and Parliament as a whole can best fulfil their duties when each of their points seeks to be fair and does not fall short of petty expressions of opinion which are not to be expressed by the legislator." It is our duty to try to maintain the value and efficiency of Parliament. Let us keep these wise words in mind and act to ensure that society too now:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u494	Mr President! According to our state order, the government in Finland belongs to a people represented by the Parliament meeting for the Parliament. Does that ring a bell? The President of the Republic and the Government, whose members must enjoy the confidence of Parliament, exercise governmental power. The Parliament has various tools to determine the trust of the Government and its members. The biggest of these is the question of the interim. However, the question of the interim should be used with caution. We cannot help but think that during the last autumn the mid-term issue has experienced inflation. There's been a few weeks of mediocre questions. On several occasions there has been a legitimate suspicion of the seriousness of the opposition’s actual role in the cultivation of intermediate issues. It is perfectly clear this time that none of the signatories to the interim question believes in the possibility of overthrowing the government by means of the interim question. The most important thing must have been to get the government to answer the interlocutory question again before Parliament moves to the Christmas break. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, have failed to sign the whole issue of power and splendor. During the past autumn, as many as five interim questions have been raised. It has not always been possible to say that opposition policy was constructive and conducive to building a common good. Mr President! It is very rare for the government to fall down on a motion of censure from Parliament. The last time this happened has happened in the '50s. A single minister, on the other hand, has been divorced as a result of a motion of censure tabled by Parliament last in 1948, when under the leadership of the Assembly there was a lack of confidence in Mr George Leino, Minister of Interior representing the SKDL, a person who today is at least the most topical person for lovers of TV drama and Finnish literature. We, elected by the people, are sometimes accused of lack of visibility and history. Is Mr Arhinmäki and the other signatories to the interim question intended to remember what happened decades ago in history and try to pay for it? Mr President! True Finns acknowledge that Parliament must have the right information as the basis for its decision-making. For this to happen, the preparation must be transparent and truthful. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to ensure that the drafting process is proper and that Parliament receives correct and fair information on the drafting of the law and on the opinions given on it. Similarly, the minister must be able to count on the correct and duly prepared information from his ministry's officials. The Finns believe that Minister Stubb made a mistake in providing Parliament with inaccurate information during Question Time in his answer on the management register. This is particularly reprehensible because it was precisely during Question Time. After all, Question Time is the main channel for many citizens to monitor parliamentary work. Giving the wrong picture reduces the credibility of Question Time when they are otherwise regarded as a political theatre. However, Mr Stubb has taken full responsibility for this mistake and apologised for his actions. He has repeated his apology in several forums. True Finns understand that people make mistakes and can learn from them. We are confident that the Minister will in future check the information that will be used in his replies to Parliament, The Finns Party trust that Minister Stubb will in future check the information he uses in his answers to Parliament and monitor and improve operational practices in his ministry. The Finns are sure,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u495	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I've been in this Parliament for almost 37 years. During my time, ministers have made thousands of statements in Parliament. There must have been a variety of mistakes and damage to these statements. I do not remember that, at any time, a minister in front of Parliament would have apologized and apologized for the unintentional mistake he made. But what did current finance minister Alexander Stubb do? He said in Question Time on 3 December: "Last week at this forum I made a mistake when I spoke about the statements in the management register. In front of you, I want to humbly apologize for this mistake. My mistake was by no means premeditated, but rather imprudent. I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry. " Was this humility enough for the far left, the Left Alliance and the Green Left, the Green Left? It wasn't enough. The largest opposition party, the SDP, which represents a more moderate left-wing group of Greens and Left-wings, did not join in these political hangings. It seems that the authors of the interim question think that, in itself, this unfortunate incident could very violently squeeze a few more political points — albeit cheap, but ah, such a beloved one. Personally, I do not believe in this, at least not for the Greens. The Left Alliance may be a different thing, since Paavo Arhinmäki is the leading rabulist in our country, and it may be that left-wing supporters feel that this constant kicking and beating of a bourgeois in the country represents a kind of civil activism that elevates the atmosphere of troops. But what about the green ones? We have noticed that, now that the Greens are in the opposition, there is much more red in the green than green. But still. Do those in favour of the Greens also think that this pursuit of one person is a good and civilised policy? I doubt that very much. Mr. Speaker! Mistake is human. We all make mistakes. A different thing is better and more virtuous people, those hypocritical Pharisees who never make mistakes. Perhaps this is what the Greens are all about. When they knew they were flawless, they threw the first stone in this Stubb case and wanted to throw the last stone. You would think that some of the noises of recent years around the Green Ministers would have led the Greens to give up their sense of superiority, arrogance and illusion of infallibility, but what about their zebra stripes? However, the following statement would have been worth recalling at the time when you decided to attack Minister Stubb: "I am no more perfect than anyone else in Finland, but we all have weaknesses. I think people can tell the difference between politicians and people." Ville Niinistö, Evening magazine, 16.4.2013. For example, this statement shows that for a brief passing moment, a green politician can imagine being just a normal mortal with his human flaws and mistakes. Mr. Speaker! The authorities issued a total of 46 opinions on the management register. According to the calculation verified by the Parliamentary Information Service — Parliamentary Information Service, representative Alanko-Kahiluoto — the positive figure was 12 %, i.e. 26 %. Forty-three per cent of them were negative. However, referring to the Helsingin Sanomat, the intermediate question claims that the number of positive opinions "in reality was 9.5%". So this is an incorrect figure. When are you, Mr Arhinmäki, or you, Mr Niinistö, who are now absent, going to correct and apologise for the false information you have given? Well, I too think this would be too much to ask, but is it not a shame or even embarrassing thing for you that you are chasing Minister Stubb for misinformation on just such a matter as you are giving Parliament incorrect information?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u496	Mr. Speaker! The mid-term issue concerns issues that are central to the work of Parliament and to the credibility and functioning of our political system as a whole. Parliament has long been concerned about the quality of legislation and how committees have even had to correct language and inconsistencies in government proposals. Reasons for this can be sought widely. One reason is that extensive committee preparation has almost been abandoned. The governments have rather prepared their proposals as official work or by a liquidator, or rarely by a liquidator, and sometimes outsourced them to consultants or even lobbyists. The liquidators and consultants give the subscriber what he wants, and they do not need to test their own position by listening to different opinions and docents of all the world and testing alternative models. Not even this kind of preparation has always been used, and, after a few days of inadequate preparation, governments have agreed on major and far-reaching issues without knowing or reviewing all the undesired consequences after decisions. One remedy for this would be to re-introduce committee work. In time, it was easy to make fun of the big committees, which had been sitting for years, "Mrs sits, wages run, reason stands, things lie down", sometimes on the subject. However, all major and successful reforms in Finland have been prepared through an extensive and inclusive preparation process, in which parliamentary committees and committees of key interest have played a crucial role. It is now a problem to abandon this. One is the atrophy of the technical level of legislation. The second is that the absence of consultation and participation in the committee work of interested parties and experts has led to a one-eyed preparation and to an unjustified and hidden preference for specific interests close to the Minister. Reforms lack long-term sustainability and a broad social commitment to their success. A functioning democracy requires an open assessment of choices and options. Now it is done afterwards in the media and in Parliament, instead of using pre-eminenceal search for wisdom. This criticism is directed at all of us. We Social Democrats have also been involved in governments whose proposals have been criticised on this issue. We therefore hope that improvements can be sought and implemented together, as this is an issue for all of us, in terms of the functioning and credibility of parliamentary democracy as a whole. It must be said, however, that what I have said earlier about the lack of preparation and its consequences has now taken on a whole new perspective under the Sipilä regime. It is not credible that the problems experienced are merely technical or due to lack of time. Many ministers here have responded to criticism that they have done their best within the time available. However, in most cases the government itself has defined a timetable so tight that it gives an excuse to ignore wider consultation and more careful preparation. Several examples of the situations that this has led to have been examined in the intermediate question. The actions of the government have been characterised by reluctance and perhaps even fear of hearing the views of the various experts and interested parties. Its practice has become a proactive attempt to ignore all conflicting views with political decisions taken in advance. Regardless of intent or purpose, the result is that the government has repeatedly been caught trying to give false information and conceal the right one. Nothing "oh, sorry" is gonna fix this yet. In politics, all actors seek to present their affairs in a form that is advantageous to them and to obtain the support of the public. What is new is that the government has harnessed its official machinery and publicist to manipulate publicity for the purposes of its will. In doing so, the government undermines confidence in public communications,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u497	Mr President! The interim issue before us concerns not only the preparation of the management register but, more broadly, the principles of transparency and good governance of the drafting of legislation. We believe there is a lesson to be learnt from the past process. We Greens appreciate Alexander Stubb's apology. We believe that, with regard to false information, it has been a human error.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u499	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u500	Mr President! I intend to speak more properly than Mr Zyskowicz. — The intermediate issue has been raised because we are now dealing with the fundamental issues and, in particular, with regard to democracy. We are not just talking about a single slip of one minister or spreading false information, but about the kind of administrative culture that has been instilled in Finland. That picture is scaryly deformed. The problem applies not only to ministers, but also to the ministries, the services and the media, if they submit to political guidance. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance made a clumsy but revealing attempt to steer a public debate in the direction in which the management registers were concerned. Fortunately, the media were awake. The question of the interim and the speech of the first signatory of the interim question well covered the chain of events. The Minister's word must be able to be relied on in all situations, as well as the fact that the legislative machinery operates transparently and fairly and that the consequences of the government's proposals are assessed as honestly as possible. Apologies, even if they are presented in bulk, do not solve the fundamental problem of the questionable way in which the preparatory machinery and the government operate. That is why the left-wing group decided to put an intermediate question, and we are pleased that the Greens' line was in place, even though you were probably under pressure. Thank you for that. Mr President! Let me give you one more example, which is particularly interesting because the government ministers disagree very much with each other in their replies. In the written question we asked in the autumn, we asked how much costs Finland incurs for membership of the EU. So it was also an extremely big matter in terms of money. Minister Stubb compared Finland with Norway in his own reply. He said: "For example, Norway, as a non-EU country, incurs considerable additional alternative costs of membership, not only as a representative, but also as compensation to the poorer EU Member States for accessing the EU internal market. Finland, too, would have to pay for access to the common European market if it were not an EU Member State. " Prior to this, the Minister's reply had always dealt with the annual figures when the costs for Finland were discussed. The comparison was so strange that we decided to ask it another time. We asked the minister concerned to answer how much Norway pays the European Union each year, either voluntarily or on the basis of agreements. This time Minister Soini replied, much more precisely and correctly: "In the last financial period 2009-2014, this so-called cohesion funding for the countries of the EEA amounted to around EUR 1.8 billion. In practice, Norway will pay most of this amount." To be precise, Norway will cost EUR 1740 million, but not in one but six years. Minister Stubb’s reply compared the costs of Norway’s six years and Finland’s one year. It seems strange if the two ministers of the same government, Stubb and Soini, give a completely different answer to the same question at the same time. The questioner cannot be wrong because he asks what he does not know, but the respondents should be right. Now either Mr Stubb or Mr Soini is right, the other is wrong, and this is a big issue, a billion-dollar annual recurring payment. I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u501	Värderade Talman! "Landskallmedlagbyggas "ärdenflerahundraårgamlaprintenviföltivårtland. Magna Cartas 800-årsjubileum firas också i år. Det är mot den bakgrunden man med oro noterar att lagberedningsarbetet i vårt land redan en längre tid har fått höra kritik för att inte hållräcklig hög standard och för att inte lev upp till målen för god lagberedning. Justitieministeriet har en utmärkt processhandbok för lagberedning, men det finns stunder då man undrar om regeringen gett sig tid att lasa den. Med processhandbokens enkla principal skulle flera misstag den rausten ha kurs undvikas. Ett exempel på hur öppenhet och korekthet har kommit i andra hand diskuterar vi i dag, då processen vid finansministeriet kring den omstridda förvaltarregisterlagen är föremål för granskning. Frågan handlar inte enbart om en felsägning under plenum, utan om hur hela beredningsprocessen har gått till. En noggrann genomgång behövs för attåterstalla förtroendet. Därför är det bra att saken diskuteras. Om den klara merparten av de utlåtanden som gavs var negativa eller kritiska mot lagförslaget, på vilket stät kom det till uttryck då lagförslaget avancerade?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u502	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party does not share the interplay between the Left Alliance and the Greens. I'm going to crystallize our position to three points. Point 1: The Minister of Finance provided Parliament with incorrect information on official statements on the management register. Point 2: The Minister of Finance admitted that he had given incorrect information and apologized in front of Parliament. Point 3: The Minister of Finance changed this proposal so that management registers, which were given false information, are no longer included in the preparation of the law. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group accepts the Minister for Finance's apology. Mr Arhinmäki raises in his question the written and unwritten rules of politics. The Minister has a special duty, both on the basis of his oath and on the basis of his constitution, to honesty. But the ethical requirement of sticking to the truth also applies to us parliamentarians. We must not give false testimony or picture each other. There is too much deliberate misunderstanding, distortion and exaggeration of words and actions by other representatives in this Chamber. The central issue is the Minister of Finance's opinion on the public opinion on the management register. Although the Minister's reply was incorrect, I do not believe that he deliberately or consciously tried to mislead Parliament. It wouldn't have made any sense. The opinions of the authorities are public and can be verified by all. Moreover, there was nothing surprising about the statements made by the authorities. The public authorities’ concerns about the publicity of ownership information and the risks of allowing management registers for the informal economy have been known for a long time. There are other unwritten rules in politics. One of the most important things is that things argue, not people. A critical debate can and must take place in the Parliament. Citizens have chosen us to represent different values and solutions to social problems. Too often, however, the debate becomes a subject of criticism and even a mockery. This is being done by both the government and the opposition. The intermediate issue is the parliamentary procedure provided for in the Constitution to clarify the government's trust in Parliament. We would like other opposition parties to take a more careful look at how to use it. The intermediate issue suffers from inflation if it is used on too lax grounds. This intermediate issue also criticises the government for its poor preparation of various legal projects. This concern is justified. The government's action in the drafting of the law has been impulsive. The presentations have been cancelled and hastily changed. Many of the proposals received during the autumn have also been incomplete. We face exceptionally difficult challenges. In order to improve the economy, employment and competitiveness, we must together be able to make decisions that safeguard welfare for future generations. "Earseness in a row is more destructive than In his memoirs, the Finnish Marshal Mannerheim wanted to put this teaching on the awareness of future generations. Complimenting with him: together with responsibility, one with responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u503	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes from your chosen location.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u504	Mr President! The drafting of this government’s law follows the same practice as in previous periods. In addition, the government has decided to improve the impact assessment, as the Minister of Finance said in his reply. In accordance with the Government Programme, we will set up a Legislative Evaluation Council. The regulation is to be finalised and should enter into force at the beginning of February. The Evaluation Council shall then take up its activities. On 2 November this year, the Ministry of Justice has also set up a working group to develop the drafting of legislation. The restoration of committee work has also been in the process of reflection. We will deal with this during the spring. With regard to the Government's proposals, the Government's proposal will remain genuinely open until it is submitted to Parliament. To this end, opinions are requested. The opinions are public and can be evaluated by all. On the basis of these opinions, if necessary, we will improve our proposals if they give rise to them. Mr President! It is clear that everything that is said here in Parliament must be based on facts. We all make mistakes sometimes. At least I make mistakes sometimes. For me, the Minister of Finance's apology was enough. Minister Stubb has my full trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the stage of the debate. I would ask those who wish to participate to get up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u506	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz used the term "rabulist". It means a brawler, a mouther, a big-mouthed politician, a high-pitched head. When listening to these speeches, only one of these speeches actually filled the content of this term of rabulist. For example, Mr Tölli and Mr Tölli It was the proper speeches, like others, which also highlighted these mistakes that have been made in the preparation and it was rightly stated that the level of preparation should be improved, and that is what this issue is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u507	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u508	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u509	Mr President! I believe that our debate is disturbed by the deliberate misunderstanding and misinterpreting of the second speech. If we have powder for it, we will do nothing, we will be in such an economic situation. Well, then, the second thing about this debate: it is very good that we are now working together on the development of legislation, and it seems that there is a reasonable consensus. Then, as far as the matters prepared by the government are concerned, as long as the matter is still in the government, there is no bill for Parliament — it is open and it can be influenced. In my opinion, the government has taken a good course of action here, that also openly
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u510	Mr President! Errare humanum est, already the ancient Romans said: ‘mistake is human.’ Mistake is also ministerial; it is a characteristic of our humanity. Unfortunately, however, there is a spirit here among the signatories to the interlocutors of the opposition that there are no perfect people — or that there are so few of us. Indeed, we need to work on finding a common understanding without bigotry. Transparency is not a matter for any individual government, but a fundamental value and an approach that should be borne from one government to another. It's a development shift from one thing to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u511	Mr President! Representative Haavisto gave a conciliatory speech, and a representative Even Arhinmäki's last speech was constructive. But you will not escape from what this intermission was made. I have about ten headlines here since you announced the intermission. Here's Green Lanka: "Opposition calls Stubb to account for lying." And continuing with, for example, New Finland: "From Stubbi's incorrect statement, the question of a mid-term review for the government." And when you read your mid-term text, you accuse Minister Stubb of knowingly distorting. That is what this issue is about. And I will read the tweets of Mr Niinistö as long as there is time: "There can be a difference of opinion about things—but the distortion is despicable." "How much can you distort and lead to hallucinations?" "The lack of political responsibility is the result "Ville Niinistö will stagger to Stubbi: Unscrupulous preparation." "Stubb station hazard. Jäätteenmäki resigned after giving false information during Parliamentary Question Time. Distortion at the same level." "We're going to demand account to Parliament for its preparation and distortion."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u514	Mr. Speaker! I believe that this interim issue has proved its worth, and this opportunity is being used not for the handling of past or individual cases, but for the fact that even the government parties have now recognised the fact that the processing of legislative work requires development, that there are shortcomings. I was pleased that the Prime Minister said that consideration was also being given to returning to committee work. This too is a clear step forward. Let us now take this opportunity to see how we can improve the level of legislation and the transparency of the preparation. If we are in agreement on this, then it should also be reflected in these future decisions. And if the government wants the opposition to participate in such an assessment and preparation, we will certainly be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u515	Mr President! Personally, I do not believe that there are so-called unnecessary interlocutory questions. They always come up from a need to have a debate, and there has now also been a debate on the quality of legislation in a way that I have not seen here this autumn, at least not before. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Töll for his constructive speech. But I would like to join those who present this committee model, involving experts in the preparation of major legislative projects more widely, and I also hope that this lobby register, transparency register issue in Finland will get wind under its wings, because today there will be a lot of different communication agencies, different organisations, different interests and it would be all right for them to register and explain who they are, what they are for, what they are for. Politicians could mean: I have met it or this lobbyist. This system would become much more transparent this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u516	Värderade Talman! Vi har konstatera att det har funnits brister i lagberedningen. Det fanns det redan också förra regeringsperioden, men det har kanskevarit ännu mer märkbart den oxten. Men, talman, jag äröjd att höra att regeringen ställer sig åtminstone i princip positiv till att utreda det är med att ta komittémetoden tillbaka till heders igen. Jag tror att vi i vårt land skulle behöva mera grundlig lagberedning, och där skulle också det kommittétankandet absolut ha en plats. Frågan är nu med Vilken tidtabell regeringen kan tänka sig att ge oss ett svar på när man kan gå in för det rauta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u517	Mr President! The main issue was the statement made by the Minister for Finance, which we believe has already been thoroughly discussed in the past, which is why I personally regard this as perhaps the most pointless interim issue of my 20-year parliamentary career. If this point of the interim question had been directed at this very drafting of the law,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u518	Mr President! I do not believe that the ministers themselves write the answers to written questions, but put their names under their names. I don't know if Secretary Stubb got on the map what I was talking about. Those answers to the written questions are numbers 242 and 303. Every citizen can check these matters. For the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in this reply, you will talk about the annual costs for 2016, the state travel and access management system regarding the data of the State Treasury in 2014 and then the costs of the Permanent Representation on the financial statements for 2014. That's always on the annual level. But when you go to this comparative data on Norway, you talk about the cost of six years instead of always talking about the cost of a year in Finland. These are not comparable data. Minister Soin's answer was very firm and correct. Have these answers been prepared in two different ministries?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u519	Minister Lindström, from the scene or the toilet, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u520	Thank you, Mr President. Here came this drafting of the law, which is in fact probably the most important contribution to this interim issue, in my opinion, that this issue is being discussed. Indeed, as the Prime Minister said, the Ministry of Justice has set up such a cooperation group on 2 November. And if you look at the tasks of its working party — including, I am not going to list everything here — then it will promote compliance with the good lawmaking procedure, the dissemination of good practice, follow the practice of applying the law drafting manuals and process diagrams, and promote the implementation of ex post impact assessment by the Government. In other words, this issue has now been given serious attention by the government. And, as has been said in a few very good speeches, not all laws will be ready until they come here, they will be open to everything at this stage of preparation, precisely because if there is an idea there. After all, the government has told us openly, even with regard to these coercive laws, how this is going to go. We're open to suggestions. The door's open. So I don't see any good in this. But here I see well that we are discussing this issue, that legislation needs to be developed. And since it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, this is certainly taken seriously, and all ideas that come from the opposition are always taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u521	And the response continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u522	Mr. Speaker! I am positively surprised at the proper atmosphere in which this matter of the interim has been dealt with, and I share the concern that has already been expressed in this sitting in relation to this quality of drafting of legislation. Even with a brief representative experience, you can see that many legislative proposals even contain technical errors and, apparently, we are too busy preparing the law. I do support Mr Töll's view here that the multi-member working groups, the committees in which all the stakeholders are represented, should be re-introduced. But, Mr President, in this context I would like to draw attention to the unfortunate way in which the Constitution and fundamental rights have begun to be politicised in this Chamber. A little from every direction the Chamber, from different parties, is accused in advance of being anti-constitutional and even a little understated in the fundamental rights of people. I would therefore like us to give the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the right to work on legislative proposals as required by our constitution and to respect our constitution across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u523	Mr President! Well, here is the tip of the interim issue fluently shifted to something quite different from what it was generally thought to be a moment ago. If it is this drafting of the law, which is now said to be the case, as the Prime Minister said, it will be the same as it was in the past. Of course, during this parliamentary term the level of ambition is quite high and we need to deal with much more and at a faster pace than in the previous parliamentary term. If this was the point, let me also remind you that the question of the interim was rather strangely formulated, as it were, around just one minister. And the preceding discussion was also very special in tone if the intention was to be constructively critical of this drafting of the law. The government was accused, among other things, of ill-preparedness in Arhinmäki's opening speech and of desecrating or depriving the entire policy of credibility. Perhaps next time you are preparing for the interim question, you could show us a model: perhaps it is worth considering,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u524	Mr President! I also think that if this debate turns out to be a matter for us to take decisions on the basis of balanced data and a comprehensive analysis. I'm sure it's been done, but we'll have to look at it in a variety of ways. In fact, I would have asked the members of the Government when Mr Haavisto said in his speech to the Greens that the big problem with this management register was access to government information, there was no information available. But if you look at the explanations that I am receiving on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the authorities are very well informed from behind the management register, plus there was also this European exchange of information, which, in my opinion, should have been very well informed by the authorities in this reform when improvements have been made. Secondly, I also ask the Greens that when you say that you are a market economy party and a market economy supporter, there is a control register in almost all Western countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u525	Mr President! It is good that there is still a little discussion about this management register, even though the project has been buried in such a form. Of course, different authorities give different opinions, with different priorities, but there was a strong concern about the potential for the spread of the shadow economy in this model, and there were also references to the fact that Denmark, for example, has not only had good experiences with this model. Of course, this would take a little more time to go through these. But precisely when I am talking about the market economy, I am talking about the transparency that shareholders must have. Everyone needs to know who owns the companies. Today, when companies are acting responsibly — and it is great that they are doing this — it must also be possible for the public and, of course, the authorities to control who are behind the ownership there. Of course, I'm afraid this will go away in this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u526	Mr President! When you listen to the speeches that have been made, it is clear here that the signatories to the interim question also want to distinguish between the person and the whole drafting of the law, and when both the Left Alliance and the Greens want to relax, then if I were in the assembly, I would accept this concession and no longer read the old statements and fright them, and then concentrate on the matter itself: what can be done better? There have been very fine speeches here. Congressman Tölli started. Let us return to open lawmaking, let us bring up this model of committee. It was supported by the representative, including Mr Haavisto. Then, in the spirit of Christmas, this debate will be quite constructive and good and this will show a positive direction forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u527	Mr President! Congressman Heinäluoma, although I am not so Christmas people, I am a people of reconciliation. But this green tactic: first there is stoned as a pig in the social media, and Green Langa is accused of lying on the title level, and then when it is discovered that a bit like an ax went off on its own feet, then amicably it is said here that well, we do not want to talk about Stubb, we want to talk about this transparency in the drafting of the law. I would like to talk about Stubb on this issue, precisely because the intermissions do not want to talk about it. Earlier, when I told you what Mr Niinistö is writing on Twitter, I'm going to tell you what he's writing on Facebook:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u528	Mr President! It is good that this interim issue has been targeted at the whole government and the level of legislative drafting. Minister Stubb has already apologized for his mistakes, and this apology is a valuable thing, and I hope that everyone will respect the fact that we are now starting to discuss how to restore the confidence of Finnish people in the transparency of lawmaking, Mr President! I would now like to hear how the government intends to improve the level of legislative drafting in the future. This lobbying register has been presented here. This setting up of an evaluation council and improving its supervision is a good thing. How will it be ensured that the impact assessment is carried out before the legislative projects are carried out so that they are as good as possible when they arrive here in Parliament? I would like to emphasise that it is in the interests of everyone and in Parliament, as Mr Tölli said, it has always been emphasised over the years that the better the work, when major changes are made, is done within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u529	Mr President! I agree with Mr Räsänen's comment that this is probably the most pointless intermediate issue that has been raised. But then, when Mr Heinäluoma said that we were going back to open lawmaking, I was forced to think about the last parliamentary term: when he was then in the opposition and followed the drafting of the law of the government at that time, I do not see the big difference that there has been any cultural change, that it is now something particularly bad, quite the opposite. In my opinion, this drafting of the law last season was the same as it is during this parliamentary term, and I do not see a big problem here. Of course, this improvement in the level of legislative drafting is a good thing, and all those measures taken by the government in this direction are all right. But there is no point in blaming Sipilä's government for somehow moving from openness to some other model, because this level of lawmaking has always been somewhat similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u530	Mr President! Mr Stubb's statement on the management register has been at the forefront of the interim issue. Of course, the text of the mid-term question also highlighted the weak level of legislative drafting and the lack of impact assessment. I agree with that criticism because during the last period, when the KD was in the government, I noticed the same lack of decision, particularly in relation to child and family policy. I remember several times when we referred to environmental impact assessments being carried out, but child impact assessments are not ready to be carried out. The authors of the interim question were never ready to join the KD’s demands for child impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u531	Mr President! When there comes a human involuntary error that is humbly apologized for, it is enough, according to the general sense of justice, and every unjustified intermediate issue eats up the authority of this house and this Parliament. It has already been pointed out that we should be gentle in the direction of the Greens. Well, that's what we've really been doing. When Minister Hautala was on the stick, then on the subject, what did Alexander Stubb say? "One thing,whatever,is that the co-colleagues,police politicians,likes the sharkfish aroundHautala right now,and I feel like I'm in a mood for a response. " Evening Sanomat 16.3.2013. It would be assumed that fair treatment is widely understood in this Chamber, even when it is directed at others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u532	Mr President! The excellent group statement by Socialdemoks stated that the government has had a lack of willingness and fear to hear the views of experts. Of today's Helsingin Sanomas, most probably could read Minister Raimo Sailas' excellent column titled the Labour Market Pact is better than forced laws. "The so-called mandatory law line is multi-faceted. It will change the balance of power in the labour market for the benefit of employers." When Mr Turunen mentioned that nothing has changed now compared to the previous government, this is true. And think about it, says Raimo Sailas: the opposition's criticism of the consequences of coercive laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u533	Mr President! Already at the beginning of December, the opposition called for the Prime Minister's announcement or the Government's communication so that an open debate on the decision-making culture could take place in Parliament. However, the government did not agree to this and the Prime Minister did not want to make a statement, so the only way for the opposition to do so was to put an intermediate issue. I would like to remind you that 22 interim issues have been raised by the opposition during the last period, and I do not remember any of the interim issues raised by the opposition ever being underestimated. Mr President! I think there has been a very good and valuable debate here today, with the exception of a few speeches, and, as you can see, this debate has been very necessary. The people do not trust politicians, and we must now, by our own actions in this House, strengthen that trust between ourselves and between our constituents.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u534	Mr President! It is fair to say that the picture came from the question of the interim, that there were times when it seemed that the intermissioners were annoyed that the question had been left. But now we are in this situation and we need to look ahead, and is it not now time to focus on improving the drafting of legislation? The impact assessment has been discussed for a long time. The whole last parliamentary term, when I was in the Advisory Board of the National Audit Office and in the Constitutional Committee, is a continuing topic: how to develop an impact assessment? This is not a problem with this government; it is a common issue. There is no point in fighting, but let us now focus on developing this issue. This whole thing is not going on with this unnecessary accusation, but let us start building up good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u535	Mr President! I think this debate is really necessary. In front of Parliament, you have to tell the truth and in Parliament you have to be able to sort things out with facts, but equally important has been this whole package of legislative drafting that has been strongly associated with this debate. We are in the process of major reforms: social welfare reform, municipal structure in it, regional government reform as a whole, and if you look at the financing of social welfare reform, the fate of real estate, you talk about billions of dollars in investments, and the third is the status of staff. All of these require calm and thorough preparation, and I think it is very good that this debate has also highlighted the fact that the government has considered committee work in this context, in connection with the preparation of these legislative acts. I hope that the government will stick to these discussions on the issues raised and will put the drafting of the law in a state that can be used by experts who are calmly, scrupulously and well-informed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u536	Mr President! It is a long-term problem that lawmaking is so intense. I remember it from the whole last election. But it is all more mirrored in what kind of crisis our democracy is in. Our way of working is simply so hectic with these complex and difficult-to-manage things that a whole new posture is needed, and in that sense this debate on the mid-term issue has finally gone to the right track. A new course is needed, and it is a good thing that together - the government, the opposition, all parties - is calling for the importance of committee work and for a sufficiently long distance between political guidance and the actual drafting of technical legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u537	Mr President! I hope that the contributions from the Assembly will also reflect on this improvement in the level of legislative drafting. It seems that the concern and desire for a group statement to label the Greens comes mainly from the fear that the civilised bourgeois and liberal voters will turn into the Greens. They have that right if they want it. But if we're going to think about how we're going to heal for real
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u538	Mr President! Mr Tölli suspected that it was a pity to have this interim issue. Not to any extent. This debate has shown that this is a very important and necessary intermediate issue. In fact, the Government Party of the Centre Party and the People's People's Party of Finland have come up with a lot of good speeches that we need to improve this drafting of the law, and if you have read the intermediate question, it is the questions that focus on this. Just as I said in my first speech, Mr Stubb's false statements, or false statements, were before Parliament, which was followed up by this long criticism from experts, from commentators. But I understand very well, I understand that Mr Zyskowicz, the rabulist, is trying to move the debate away from what is at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u539	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to return to this Christmas spirit and say here together that we are all in need of a message of mercy and mercy. I am afraid to quote the Bible more and more, otherwise I would immediately be branded a blender of religion and politics. But the level of lawmaking should always be assessed. I am sure that we are in agreement here, and I would have asked both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, when you referred to the establishment of this Impact Assessment Council: it has also been on the agenda for the evaluation of EU legislation, and I would like to know whether the initiative has now come more from the point of view of EU law and how this is to be taken forward and whether we will also take account of the legislation of EU origin and the preparation of the directive as well as the preparation of national needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u540	At this point, I'll give the Prime Minister a minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u541	Mr President! I must correct the fact that I was required to be informed by the Prime Minister of Mr Stubb's statements during Question Time, not of the shortcomings in the drafting of legislation. At least no one has come from me to demand the Prime Minister's announcement of legislative shortcomings, but from Minister Stubb's statements during Question Time, personally from me. Two laws were mentioned in the intermediate question, which, in the opinion of the authors of the intermediate question, were not prepared. I would like to remind you that these two laws are in preparation for the government. They have not been given to Parliament. In a spirit of transparency, they have been prepared openly and have been asked for opinions and legislative proposals. One has been withdrawn and the other has come from statements and we will see what happens to it. I would like to say to Mr Gustafsson that this is also my hope that the social partners will agree and never have to bring it here in Parliament. That's what I've said many times. Finally, in a spirit of transparency, I would also like to thank the opposition for the support given to these projects to improve the drafting of government legislation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u542	Mr President! I welcome the fact that there seems to be quite a broad consensus here that the quality of legislation needs to be improved, that impact assessments need to be carried out more broadly and that extensive committee preparation will also be in place in the future. These are good things. There may be an open disagreement as to whether or not the situation has changed for the worse under this government. I believe that this can be left to the docents of history, if we can see, however, that the results of these first three issues will be expected in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u543	Mr President! It is just a fact that, on the basis of both Mr Zyskowicz's statements and the Prime Minister's statements, there is full evidence here that the main point of this interim issue was precisely a manhunt for a person, whatever it may be said. It's great that it's changed here like this. The Minister has apologized for his faulty mistake, and forgiveness has been granted, and I think that is it. But it's great that we're talking about the level of lawmaking. Yes, it is worth talking about. It's a lot to develop, but is it, really, now the place of the intermission? I don't think so. That level of lawmaking can be considered in many other places. Mr President! I would now like to express the wish of an individual, humble representative of this kind: let us start to deal with the budget gradually, and let us get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u544	Mr President! There has now been a charge of misappropriation of the interim issue, a charge of misrepresentation, of kicking someone on the ground. I am genuinely amazed at the understatement of some here that the Minister is giving the wrong information to Parliament. In my opinion, if the Minister himself admits it, it is a fact, saying it out loud is not a distortion, it is not a brawl, and it is not kicking someone in the ground. For me, Mr Stubb, there is something much more important than you and me. This is not about the person, it is not about the content of a single bill, it is not about party politics. This is a bigger matter than we are, this Parliament as an institution and its trust and prestige. We are the representatives of the people, and the confidence of the citizens is a necessary starting point for doing this work. We parliamentarians and you ministers are just part of a bigger story and a bigger meaning. We're on this mission for a while. We must give this institution as fine and as valuable a step forward as it has been given to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u545	Mr President! I share the deep amazement about this spirit of the interim issue that, first with torches and chiselings to lynch an individual minister, media publicity is made available and then the debate on the mid-term question suggests that we simply want to talk about it in a purely cultural way, there is no way to understand this. Sometimes you should look at that beam in your own eye, Mr. Arhinmäki. Last year, as Minister, you had to apologize for your behavior. You said it was inappropriate for the Minister, and when the journalist asked you whether you had discussed it or whether you were discussing it with the Prime Minister, you said, "Well, I don't know if there's anything to talk about." Well, there's very little to talk about either. The Greens have gone into this debate on the mid-term issue with a completely extinguished lantern, and, Mr Arhinmäki, with the Left Alliance, this is, by the way, just tired.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u546	Mr President! This idea of the evaluation committee is all right and quite welcome, but I would like to remind the government that you have access to Parliament's information service at all times, for example, from which you could order calculations of the consequences of your decisions. However, Prime Minister Sipilä has pointed out that the government will decide first and evaluate the effects only afterwards. You keep saying that it's better to decide something than not decide. But the measure of responsibility is not to decide, but to decide rationally and prudently and to take responsibility for the consequences of decisions. The sitting government is repeatedly cutting the most out of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u547	At this stage, I give the floor to the Minister responsible for preparing the evaluation council, Minister Berner, on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u548	Mr President! In the Government Programme, the streamlining of standards is one of the elements of the setting up of an evaluation council. There are very many similar Councils in the EU countries, and the same type is now being established in Finland. The Council is responsible for issuing opinions on the impact assessments of the Government's draft proposals. It may also issue opinions on the impact assessments of other draft legislative acts. In addition, the Council may take initiatives to improve the quality of legislative drafting, in particular the quality of impact assessments and evaluation activities. It may also assess the implementation of impact assessments once the legislation has entered into force. The Council will monitor the development of the quality of impact assessments and assess the effectiveness of its activities. The Council shall report annually to the Prime Minister's Office on its activities. The aim is for the Council to influence the legislative culture through its own actions and also to keep in mind that ministries are genuinely carrying out their assessments carefully. What is important now is to ensure that this Council is well occupied and I am happy to hear the views of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u549	I will now also give Mr Lindström the floor on the spot for one minute, and then we will see whether he wishes to continue this debate or whether he will move on to the speeches. Let's see if you're tired.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u550	Thank you, Mr President. As far as this timetable is concerned, this working group, led by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Tiina Astola, suggested that it could start its activities at the beginning of next year and that the term of office of this Impact Assessment Board would be from 1 January 2016 to 30 September 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u551	Mr President! I find it extraordinary that, when we put an intermediate issue on a very important issue, it includes the fact that the Minister has given false information in the ministerial box about how there has been a cover-up in the preparation process — for example, the Ministry of Finance has tried to hide the opinion of its own tax department from the register of management — how in the preparation of forced laws we have wiped out estimates that are absolutely central to the draft law that has been submitted to the consultation, so it is said that this is now a tiresome debate and pointless and that we should move forward and forget the whole thing. Yes, I wonder if, for example, the representative of the People's Party of Finland, Elo, really believes that such drafting of the law is really appropriate and that such drafting of the law should not be interfered with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u552	Mr Arhinmäki, there were only a few comments here a short time ago. Now there are a few more, I admit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u553	Mr President! The Greens and the Left put this intermediate question because they wanted to stone Minister Stubb for his unintentional statement. If my interpretation is wrong, the whole Finnish media misinterpreted your press conference and statements, the whole Finnish media, because everyone interpreted that the interim issue was made of Minister Stubb's incorrect statement, which you consider deliberate in the interim text. Now the Greens have come to regret, the Left Alliance has not. In fact, Mr Modig is the only one who stands firm in favour of the original objective and idea of the interim issue. I am not taking the debate to other things, but precisely these interlocutors who themselves want to escape the political error they have made. They're trying to move the conversation to other things. And as for Mr Ville Niinistö, I hope that they will have the opportunity to familiarise themselves with these tweets of yours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u554	Mr President! Although there is now a little different sound in the bell in this Chamber, the fact is, however, that perhaps 10 percent of the issue and 90 percent of pure politics — pure politics — are behind this intermediate issue. Such intermediate issues would probably be left open every day if the virtual world, the nocturnal debaters of the online world, could decide. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens can indeed lose confidence in us politicians for the reasons that result from us. This intermediate issue, without dimensions and a sense of proportion, is a good example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u555	Mr President! Firstly, in my first speech, I said that all this was summed up in Mr Stubb's false statement, but there is a much bigger question here. And when you, Mr Zyskowicz, asked what we said at the press conference, a direct quote from the press release: 'Every one of us makes mistakes, and that is human. It is to be appreciated that they are granted and apologized for. However, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, has been working all the way in the preparation of the law to promote an important register of management for the background forces of his party on untenable grounds. It is a recurring issue of giving false or biased information to pursue its own political objectives. It would have been good if the Prime Minister had announced this. When it is not given, the only way to be clear about this wider process is by way of a mid-term issue." Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, a direct quote from what I said at the press conference. After this, I'm sure it's clear that this interim issue started with Stubb's statement, but that's all it was.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u556	Mr President! I have been involved in many information operations, but I do not know whether I have ever succeeded as badly as you, Mr Arhinmäki, and you, Mr Niinistö, have succeeded in the message that this is not about Stubb, it is not about Stubb's statement, it is about a much wider issue. I'm going to read how the media interpreted it. Yours, Mr Niinistö, was interpreted by Green Lanka, which is completely out of reach, with the title "Opposition calls Stubb to account for lying." You couldn't even get your message through to Green Lanka.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u557	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is a little confused about these statements. You might want to get to know them, do the groundwork properly. First of all, I would like to thank the group speaker from the centre, the group speaker from the Finns: you take seriously the concerns and criticisms expressed about the government's drafting of the law and you spend your time on the matter itself and not on the harassment of the opposition. I would like to ask, at this point, indeed, from Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Stubb: when, hopefully, you will implement the anti-tax avoidance agenda and close the lobby register and this circular door phenomenon — that the key ministers and key officials will not move from A to B —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u558	Mr President! First of all, when I listened to the conversation, it occurred to me that Kalevi Sorsa’s complaint occurred when he said that some parties were in the minister’s calf like Tasmania’s bloodhound. I think he meant the press back then. My actual comment concerns this evaluation council, which was created during the government negotiations. It is not just a matter of drafting legislation to me, but of the whole process, of good governance and also of implementation. It is important that laws are implemented well, that they are implemented in such a way that they are effective, effective for its purpose itself. This is a continuing challenge, especially now that legislation is being adopted relatively quickly, to make law-making laws with negative marks, and this is something we should, of course, take seriously. I believe that the government's objective here is now to improve the quality of legislation, as long as we also have sufficient resources for legislative work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u559	The first signatory of the interim question, Mr Arhinmäki, and then Minister Stubb thereafter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u560	Mr President! This interim issue has been made about Stubb's false statements and the poor drafting of the law and the problems it has. That is what I said in my opening speech. This is evident from the issue. If you have read the questions of the middle question, then each of them touches on how the government will improve the preparation of the law. But, Mr President, with regard to the quotes that Mr Zyskowicz has read, it must be remembered that the interim issue was decided after the Prime Minister announced that he will not give the Prime Minister's announcement and will not bring this debate here. After that, after announcing the issue of the incident, Stubb humbled himself in front of Parliament to apologize,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u561	Now, Minister Stubb, from the scene a minute or two, up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u562	Mr President! First of all, thank you very much for this debate, which has taken place both with regard to my own activities and with regard to the preparation of legislation. As far as I am concerned, it is worth being honest in the sense that no matter how much you want your own personality, Mr Modig, you can't really do it. And I believe and hope that it is also human from everyone's point of view. Of course, a lot of mistakes will come along the way as a minister and probably even in the course of life, and I will make a lot of them in the future. Perhaps what scares me a little in the future is whether, as Minister of Finance, I will ever have the courage to use the figures again, but I will. But I'm going to avoid making mistakes of course. This whole debate has been instructive, and I am indeed most humble in many ways to express my thanks for it. As far as this second question is concerned today, the quality of the drafting of legislation is indeed a whole which we need to deal with more closely — I bet that for everyone. Legislation must be transparent, precise, constitutional. We need to listen to stakeholders and experts, we need to use electronic means of consultation, and we need to look at the constitutionality. But what many representatives in this debate paid the right attention to is that we are going to have to make a lot of difficult decisions. That is why I would be prepared to support all those speeches, especially Mr Töll, who said that it is terribly important that, in the debate when we make laws and debate them, we do not deliberately understand the wrong ones, because if we do this, then this society will stop. Then we will just stay and update what is the purpose of something, which is why it was done this way, rather than doing it. Someone has sometimes cleverly said — and this probably applies to me at this point in a very good way — that we all have the right to opinions, but we do not have the right to distort the facts. That's how this conversation started at the end of the game. I hope that in the future, when we have a debate in this Chamber, we will also be able to take it forward in this spirit. In my reply to the House on this intermediate issue — which, in my view, was more relevant to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance’s activities at the end of the game, because that is what this intermediate issue was all about and will be put to the vote tomorrow — I hope that I was able to give a good enough answer on the management register. I hope that I was able to give a satisfactory answer to the way in which we in the Ministry of Finance will make communications more transparent. I hope that I was able to give a good answer, Mr Viitanen, in relation to the housing allowance for pensioners, because it did not give rise to any further debate. I hope that I have also received a good response to that radio interview statement on the constitutional assessments, and I hope that other ministers, including the Prime Minister, have been able to give everyone a satisfactory answer on how we will improve our approach to drafting the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u563	At this stage I will give the floor to the representatives of Kivelä, Mustajärvi, Pauli Kiuru and Niinistö. If, after that, there seems to be particular justification for continuing, then it will be considered separately. Let's go with these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u564	Mr President! I must say, however, that I was somewhat sceptical about this whole debate, that this is not going to happen, but I have to say that in the end, thank you will stand. However, when you read the text of this interim question, there is clearly a personhunt here, it cannot be denied. But we have had a very fruitful and fine debate on the state and level of legislation, the level of drafting in our country. And we are not pioneers in this matter. This is something that has already been drawn to the attention of the National Audit Office, something that has been drawn to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice in his report. Now, as political decision-makers, we really must wake up, and I must say that the government has reacted. The Legislative Evaluation Council project is a very good step. More of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u565	Mr President! If we had gone as the Left Alliance would have liked, the timetable and form of this discussion would have been quite different. The vote would have taken place last week or at the same time as the budget. For reasons beyond our control, this went as it did. We got all the other options played out. And I remember, Mr Stubb, when we exchanged a few words a few days ago in that windbox: you too know how this matter has been run. But it's not enough for me to be convinced of Christmas spirit here. Now is the chance to make a turn for the better. We have a bill coming forward the day after tomorrow for a referral debate on the common national property of all of us, land, forest and water assets: a bill on Metsähallitus. It was only under duress that the hearings and the consultation were held and has now gone into hiding behind a non-existent EU requirement. Are you ready to promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u566	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this debate. For example, a representative: Mr Tölli gave a very good speech, and several representatives have drawn attention to the way in which we gain the confidence of our citizens in these times when major changes are being made, to the fact that decision-making is based on knowledge and that all citizens can count on equality and that decisions are properly assessed. In these times, the government has a special responsibility to prepare its decisions with particular care when seeking major changes. It is very important that when the welfare state leaves the trust and the promise that every Finnish person is in the same boat, that the status of all of us is safeguarded, so when there are changes of this magnitude, cuts on which we disagree, they are well prepared and can be estimated that the government justifies why it has made these decisions, and people can count on that information. As our first president, Ståhlberg, said in his inaugural address, everyone in Finland must be able to trust that the law and justice are on his side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u567	Mr President! There are mistakes in a tight, fast-paced debate, and it is understandable that they also happen in this house. It's appreciated to know how to apologize. Many speakers, including Mrs Wallin and Mr Niinistö, stressed the importance of correct information. Yesterday, on the part of the opposition parties, when dealing with the alternative budget in this reading of the budget, it was said that their alternative budget has been revised in the Parliamentary Information Service. Now I would like to see whether it is really the case that, for example, the financial tax and its potential profits have actually been secured in the parliamentary information service, or whether it is something that now came out of the left sleeve in the middle of the debate and was perhaps a little incorrect — that is, this check-up data and the assumed return on its financial tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u568	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Rinne said very important words here: the truth must be said in front of Parliament. And now, from the Socialist Group's speech, I take a short line: 'The second is that the absence of consultation and participation in the committee work of the parties and experts has led to a one-eyed preparation and to an unjustified and hidden recommendation of the special interests of the parties close to the Minister.' That's a big accusation. And I will return to that original point: in front of Parliament, one should be able to tell the truth. This was a copy of the speech of the representative of the Judge-in-law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u569	Mr. Speaker! I did not identify anything at all, but everyone can say — and I myself will be the docent of history to deal with these matters in due course — how different legislative issues have arisen. This isn't new. We have been told a great deal in history about the way the forest industry has handled its own interests in the 50s and 60s. We also know how Nokia is. It is the lobbying activity that Mr Haavisto has rightly proposed here. I hope that this opportunity, too, in this regard, will be taken together to improve legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u570	Mr President! Thank you very much for this debate. I think that this has proved necessary, even though it has sometimes been impulsive and decisive, and it is certainly the case that ordinary citizens also appreciate the fact that we are discussing how we can improve the level of drafting of legislation. I myself am particularly concerned, quite sincerely, about how we will ensure that in this house there is a policy that does not over-promise income differentials or over-discipline the position of the lowest-incomed, and in that sense I sincerely hope that the government will do what it has promised now, that is to say, that it will implement such an evaluation committee, which will also assess beforehand the impact of government policy on the everyday lives of ordinary people. As far as this is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u571	I will give the floor to Mrs Myllykoski and then, if any member of the board wishes to speak to her too, and if necessary, perhaps one more speech, but no longer, then we will go to the actual list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u572	Mr President! The debate has been constructive and critical, and it must be part of politics. The authors of the interim question are indeed, as the rapporteur for the interim question, Mr Arhinmäki, pointed out here, the critical ones, and, let us say, the cup was crossed at some point, and when this process did not move forward in the way that the left-wing union thought it would be driven, this was indeed the only tool. This would have gone faster, this would have been dealt with faster. But I must say, Mr Räsänen and Mr Zyskowicz, for the understatement that Mrs Wallin was also in agreement that you did not see the forest on the trees, how serious the situation really is. A special thank you must be given by a representative. To the House on the constructive and first speech he made in his group speech. On this basis, I think it is a good idea to begin to conclude this debate on the interim issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u573	We now have another speech for the members of the Government — if not, we shall move on to the next one, that is to say, the last one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u574	Mr President! I think there is always a need for a constructive debate on issues, and this autumn, too, we have talked a lot about the fact that the government has made a lot of cuts for people on low incomes. Here, when these pensioners came up: it is a very serious situation, and I am pleased that the Minister promised to return to this issue in the debate and give answers to these issues. Indeed, we are genuinely concerned that these cuts will also be highlighted for pensioners. We have also, of course, been dissatisfied with this line of taxation, which means that pensioners and employees must be treated fairly, fairly and equally. And certainly the government must be sure that the Social Democrats will not give up this debate. We hope that these decisions can be reconsidered and withdrawn. This is the case that when decisions are taken that are really difficult for a group of people, then the opposition must be able to ask, challenge and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u575	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u576	Mr President! I, too, am very pleased that this person's drive was turned to actual content issues, because I am sure everyone believes that debate, lawmaking, decision-making must be based on genuinely balanced information and open information and diverse information. Let us talk a little about the content that this has led to: The first, of course, could be to discuss the management register. Was there a variety of information, whether it was handled in a variety of ways before this noise actually arose? I would argue that many of the improvements that were designed to be made in the management register were left behind by the old noise and were not genuinely considered to have been made with improved versions, but actually talked about the traditional, the old management register. The second argument is that it is possible to hide ownership abroad. There was a desire to improve this, to improve the exchange of information, to create a European information exchange system. On the other hand, the data were now better established on the basis of domestic ownership. But then, thirdly, of course, one might ask whether we should now, in these other cases, analyse in the same way the diverse information which decisions we will take in the future. Mr Gustafsson spoke of the Government's competitiveness package, which means that we should discuss what Secretary of State Sailas said about the competitiveness package, and, as the Prime Minister has also said here, it is always hoped that the social partners will receive such a reduction in costs by means other than this mere competitiveness package. But then, on the other hand, it may also be asked that, now that there is a very topical debate on increasing local reconciliation and now these impact assessments have been discussed, we could have a good example of impact assessment, even in Germany, of what has happened since local agreements have been increased in Germany. There are a few facts that I can take as an example. There are currently fewer unemployed people in Germany than in the last 25 years. On the other hand, unemployment has fallen by 100,000 over the past year. Thirdly, it is expected that 250,000 new jobs will be created next year. It has then been said that the Hartz reform, the most essential part of which is the reform of local reconciliation, has played a significant role in this change and economic growth. So in that respect, quite an interesting end result, quite an interesting impact assessment. Then there has also been thought and compared with Finland, and in Finland flexibility has taken place as unemployment. In Germany it has taken the form of changes in working time and wages. I will simply raise the question genuinely in the debate that we should now also carry out various impact assessments of local agreement, even in the German and Swedish models, whether they should be analysed when decisions are being taken here in the near future. I would also recommend that this study be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u577	Mr President! The Social Democrats are concerned about the level of legislative drafting in our country. During the autumn session, we have seen inadequate preparation of several laws and government proposals, disregarding expert opinions and, unfortunately, also completely incorrect information, which has even been presented in the Chamber by the Minister. This is not the preparation and handling of matters acceptable to Parliament from the point of view of authority or democracy. This is not a single case, and we are not discussing today just a single law and the incorrect information it contains. As a new Member of Parliament, I have to say that I am shocked at how poorly prepared proposals have been brought into Parliament's deliberations. I also regret that, in the work of the committee, expert opinions and assessments have not always been given the weight they should have. It is good that, at the request of the opposition and civil society, the government has abandoned, for example, the law of effective repentance, i.e. the amnesty of the tax evader and the administrative register. However, the stages of preparing these matters do not deserve any recognition. This play, which we have witnessed in relation to these laws, is a sad indication of the current level of lawmaking. Regrettably, the Governance Register Act and the Law of Effective Repentance are not the only laws whose preparation and processing has been marked by a lack of transparency, haste, disregard of expert consultations and opinions and selection of information used to support the government's own purposes. The lack of preparation and the lack of good governance have also been reflected, for example, in the preparation of the compulsory law package, in the preparation of the Metsähallitus Act, which we have before us on Thursday, in the preparation of transport matters, and in the preparation and processing of many of the government's savings laws. Criticism of the government's actions is relevant and necessary. Mr President! Every party and government should aim to ensure that the laws that come to Parliament's deliberations are carefully prepared and based on correct and well-founded information. This is the basis of parliamentary democracy. In the Socialist Group's statement, the representative of the Court of Justice made a number of comments on how to improve the drafting of the law. It would be desirable for all parties to share the objective of making the best possible lawmaking and the legislative process. The activities should be transparent, transparent and the experts should be consulted and consulted widely, both in the preparation of the Ministry's legislation and also in the parliamentary committee. The introduction of committee work is one of the means of improving the drafting of legislation highlighted by the Judge-in-Office. I hope that the government will take up this proposal. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has to be said that the SDP suggested that Prime Minister Sipilä would have brought the Prime Minister's report to Parliament on the activities of the Minister for Finance and on the misinformation given to Parliament. We believe that this would have been the right way and a forum to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u578	Mr President! A good debate has already taken place, but I would like to point out that the drafting of legislation must be based on factual information and it is important that it is not underestimated. I am very sorry that the ministers of the sitting government have repeatedly shown, by their words and actions, that they do not value experts particularly highly. The professors have heard their honour, and the Docent in Finland has almost become a swear word. However, it is even more serious if the expert is also ignored in the preparation of the laws or is given the exact opposite view to Parliament. That is also the point I myself raised as the second signatory to the intermediate issue. In no case have I, as chairman of the Green Parliamentary Group, given the impression that our interlocutory question is directed towards one person, but I have specifically pointed out that our parliamentary group is concerned about the current decision-making culture and how expert assessments are not carried out in advance and also afterwards. This is likely to undermine people's confidence in politics and in parliament and government. I hope that, after this debate, the government will make a change of direction and will also take seriously the fact that the public really wants to hear the reasons on which the decision-making process is based in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u579	Mr President! I am not going to intervene in every speech, but when Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said that he had absolutely no wish to give the impression that one person was being targeted here, we must also take a few quotes from what he said. On Twitter, "Living about a serious ministerial box." Helsingin Sanomat 28.11.: "Alanko-Kahiluoto believes that lying is a very serious matter for the Minister of Finance." Helsingin Sanomat on 1 December: "The Greens have found the way in which Stubb and the Coalition Party have pushed the management register contrary to the views of all experts." And on Yle’s page on 1 December: “The leader of the Green Group Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto said that the measure of the opposition is full because ‘the government has provided incomplete, false information throughout the autumn’. Mr. Speaker! Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, I will at least read your statements so that you have been very hard on Mr Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u580	Congressman Zyskowicz, thank you for reading these quotes. As far as I am concerned, I am still behind every argument, but, as I said in my speech earlier, if you had listened carefully, as the second signatory to the interim issue, I did not raise any criticisms of one person at the press conference. After all, we held an interim briefing when the Prime Minister did not provide the opportunity for us to have a debate on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcement. This was also the case after we heard Mr Stubb's apology, and I said at this briefing that we appreciate it high but that we are deeply concerned about the level of legislative drafting and also about the administrative culture represented by this sitting government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u581	Mr President! Right away to Mr Zyskowicz: Yes, I too have been involved in this, so that we no longer need to read quotes. Of course, you wouldn't find them. With regard to the matter on which the interim issue has been raised, I do not want to quote any more of those points raised by Mr Arhinmäki, but with a few comments on the fact that the ministers have tried very well to defend themselves in this debate by the fact that the matter is still open. The issue is still open and remains open. Then, after the fifth paragraph, I stopped keeping tabs because it justified the fact that things could be poorly prepared. Transparency does not eliminate the fact that legislation has really been poorly prepared, for example in the area of coercive laws. The Sipilä government has claimed that 38,000 new jobs are being imported by enforced laws. The statements on the bill were made public on Thursday. The public radio has reviewed the statements made on the mandatory laws. In critical terms, 55% of opinion-makers and only 15% are in favour of forced laws. The People’s News has reviewed the statements made by economic experts on the employment promises of forced laws. No financial expert believes in the employment estimates of the Sipilä government. Most estimates suggest that the package will rapidly deepen the recession, but the positive effects are uncertain and will only be visible for years to come. Opinions on economic impacts have been issued by Aalto University Professors Sixten Korkman, Matti Pohjola, Professor of Labour and Social Law at the University of Lapland Jaana Paanetoja and Professor of Economics at the University of Jyväskylä University of Economics Kari Heimonen. If, then, these are regarded as docents of all the world and these expert opinions are not taken into account, if the government takes the line that their views are correct and justifies the fact that this law is well prepared, then this debate will be a bottom-up, That is why today's debate on the mid-term issue was excellent because, in the end, however, we all recognise what has happened in the previous and previous years and do not blame all of this on this government either, but try, as the government has already done in its own actions, to seek better solutions for the drafting of legislation. Well, forced legislation is that if the employment impact is considered optimistic, then the economic survey of Pellervo does not see this as such a good option. This gives and this preparation of forced laws gives a sad picture of the impact assessment of the Sipilä Government's legislative drafting. I will use this end as an inspiration from Mr. Jaskari to evaluate the laws of forced labour. It would be a good thing for us to have the German model in this debate and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u582	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u583	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u584	Mr President! The Minister must tell the truth in front of Parliament. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, made a mistake in this Chamber, and in the same Chamber we have heard his apology. In Finland, apology and humility are appreciated in the face of a mistake made. The Finn forgives when sincerely and humbly asked. The register has been buried, as the Finns of Finland already announced in November, in connection with the fall of active repentance. That is why I wonder why the whole thing has come up for discussion in general. I hope that even too active ministerial officials have learned something from their place in the preparation of matters. However, neither an apology nor a freeze of questionable preparation were enough for the beautiful left and the Greens. They are prepared to use the strongest parliamentary means in the opposition to defeat and inspire mistrust in the midst of the rush to approve all the budget. This is a big blow to the parliamentary credibility of the Left Alliance and the Greens. However, let us forgive those who have signed the interim question, because at least many of them probably do not know what they are doing here. At least the SDP doesn't seem to know how to balance things out. Mr President! As far as the criticism of the drafting of laws on the part of the opposition during this part-session is concerned, there is a constant pattern. The opposition itself is doing what the government is accusing the government of. The Green Left wants the people to have confidence in the Parliament, but it is eating it up itself. The opposition relies on half-truths, de facto details and expert opinions that it prefers. Let's repeat the altered truth enough to believe it. For example, people keep saying the word "forced law". The intermediate issue often calls for neutrality and suggests that it would be wrong to take political decisions on the basis of political intentions. I'll argue with you. The people have voted for the decision-makers on the basis of their programme. The people have not voted for the Green Left. The government does not enjoy the confidence of the opposition; this hardly comes as a surprise to anyone. These experts, professors and docents have been discussed during the current period. Surprisingly, the fact that the experts mentioned do not have a solution to the problems, at most new ones, often comes to the fore. Why are we in a situation where we wonder if the Docent is a swear word? How have we come to this? Why do high - paying experts not have solutions to society’s problems? That's not a game we're playing right now. We have to move on, we have to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u585	Mr President! Many good, factual and constructive speeches have been made here today, and I too would like to thank the honourable Member in particular. I believe that there are important positions on Parliament's authority. That is what I want to talk about. Something has changed in our way of doing things. That is what many Members of Parliament who have long been here say to me. I do not have a long political career in the background, because I am only a second-term MP, so I cannot compare the current situation to the last period, but I have more than ten years of experience in the work of a working community trainer and a working community coach, and the key issues I worked on during these years were learning interaction, contract culture and trust capital. Of course, Parliament is not an ordinary job, but nevertheless the content of these words could be considered in this context too, because in any case we are also talking about these things here and almost swearing to them. Trust is a feeling and assurance that someone or something can be trusted or that someone or something does not disappoint. Trust is a feeling that is directed at a person or someone. Reliability, on the other hand, depends on the behaviour of a person or a particular body. Confidence capital has always been Finland’s strength. In the labour market, for example, tripartite cooperation based on trust has brought stability and peace at work. Such a contractual society is sometimes slow and rigid, but at the same time it is stable and reliable. In difficult times, Finland must stick to its strengths. Finland's rise from the recession of the 1990s was based on cooperation and strong trust, and the same spirit would now be badly needed. Here in Parliament, parliamentary committee work would now be useful in many areas. Without trust, there can be no genuine culture of reconciliation. True agreement is based on respect and trust for all other parties. The aim should be to reach a consensus decision whereby all parties have first been consulted and then together we will go for a solution to which everyone can commit. If the solution is completed, there can be no real agreement. This kind of work takes time, but it is also possible to agree together to make a joint commitment. Then things will move forward more surely than they will by force. Mr President! The public's confidence in Parliament and the government is currently weak. According to a study last week, only 38% of citizens trust the government. Parliament's confidence is slightly higher, which means that 43 per cent of the citizens say they trust Parliament. So we should all look in the mirror. How does our actions look on the outside? Do we use our actions to inspire confidence in our citizens? Compared to the last period, the conduct of the Members of Parliament has changed. During the last period, there was no laughter to other parliamentarians and not as much understated and nullified others as it is now. I have heard this from the people who have given me feedback on Parliament's activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u586	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u587	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u588	Mr President! We parliamentarians in this Chamber exercise supreme authority in adopting laws that affect the lives of all Finns. As a new Member of Parliament, I have been amazed at the level of lawmaking that has existed here. How can it even be so weak when the ministries and the government have the opportunity to use the country's leading experts and have the resources to calculate the impact of legislative proposals? The debate that took place today is a good one, and I hope that lessons will be drawn from this. It was also good to hear that it has been decided to set up a legislative impact assessment body within the Government. We also heard that it has not yet begun its work. This, too, was a relief. It would have been frightening to hear that this would already be in operation, since, in the case of the legislative proposals that have now been brought into the Chamber, the impact assessments have been regularly non-existent, the interaction of different laws with different population groups has not been taken into account, the gender impact assessments have not been carried out. Let us hope that this too will be improved. Mr President! Good legislation is transparent and transparent. The more opinions the bill shares, the more important the transparency is. That's the only way to get sustainable decisions. In drafting the law, extensive consultation of experts will ensure the presentation of different perspectives. If we imagine that the consultation will be ignored in advance, with a view to speeding up the process, we are on the wrong track. On the contrary, opening up the drafting of legislation to criticism enables a number of problems and risks to arise at an early stage, so that they can be influenced in legal work. The proposed referral back to committee work is therefore very welcome. The government has stressed that matters should be dealt with quickly. It has led to a wide range of legal remedies. However, these orthodox attempts have led to additional round of fines when legislative proposals have had to be withdrawn, corrected and amended. This has wasted both time and credibility. It's not going to be good. Even now, there are legislative proposals under preparation which are rightly subject to various concerns: forced laws and their possible non-constitutional and international law, questionable constitutionality of the reform of social security and regional government, compatibility of measures against asylum seekers with international law. There is also genuine concern that many of the laws that have been passed in haste will come before us yet again, demanding different corrections when practical life brings out the effects that had not been assessed in advance. The savings sought by the law may not be realised, and elsewhere the costs will increase. For example, limiting subjective day care ends up on this list with a large coefficient. Mr President! How can lawmaking be improved? The preparation should involve a wide range of experts. The Climate Panel is a good example of a new way of collecting expertise. Citizens should be involved at an early stage. It can also be used in the preparation of legislation. Impact assessments should be carried out carefully. The interaction of different laws with different population groups must also be assessed. The cost effects should be calculated already on the government's side. It is not reasonable for the opposition to do so on behalf of the government, as was the case with the housing allowance for pensioners. Transparency, easier access to media information and equal treatment of the media must be taken for granted in the functioning of ministries. Consultation of representative organisations must be transparent. All those who have been consulted in the committees will be made public, unlike those who visit the ministers. That is why the members of the Government should maintain an up-to-date register of lobbying, which tells us what has been encountered and what has been the subject of discussions. Mr President! It is in the common interest of this Chamber that we take care of the conditions for a good democracy. One of these is the good preparation of legislation. Political interests must not jeopardise confidence in the good drafting of legislation. Everyone must be able to rely on facts, expertise, broad consultation of citizens and their representatives and as reliable an impact assessment as possible. The conclusions reached may then differ according to political priorities. That's part of the deal. To change that, democracy has its own means in the form of elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u589	Madam Speaker! The respected political scientist Frank Ankers-mit has said that representative parliamentaryism is perhaps the most significant European achievement ever. The same enemies who tried to destroy each other in the French Revolution met in 1830 in Parliament to resolve their differences by means of an agreed systematic procedure. This will only be possible if each party respects each other, considers disagreement to be natural and seeks compromises. The question of honesty and truth is a difficult issue for the intermediate issue in which the opposition ultimately seeks to overthrow the government, the outcome of which is that the representatives of the government parties give the government their confidence. At its most grotesque point, the government felt that the truth was being said and the opposition felt that it was not. In this case, the truth would only be a matter of opinion. In the United States, decision-making has come into crisis precisely because the two main parties do not respect each other's truthfulness. However, the important starting point for parliamentaryism is that the good motives of any party are not called into question. For example, it is inappropriate to doubt the genuine will of any party or representative to promote the common good and the cause of the country. In Ankersmit's survey, political decision-making is not even based on concepts of truth and lie. Article 60 of the Constitution, according to which ministers must be Finnish citizens known as honest and competent, is empty in their reservations for interpretation. However, this paragraph is interpreted as meaning that the Minister must speak the truth to Parliament. He must tell the facts about the legislative proposals and their preparation. But what fact is essential to keep secret what fact? Ultimately, the interpretation is political. Should the minister stick to the truth even when he talks about matters other than those under his ministerial responsibility? After all, he has the right to express political views on which, in principle, a narrow definition of truth and lie cannot be applied. He often speaks both as a member of the Government and as a representative of his party, even in the same speech. It's hard to draw a line. And should the Minister also speak the truth outside Parliament, for example, to journalists? Is it generally reprehensible if the Minister of Finance tells the wrong or incomplete truth about the management register, or is the verdict of public opinion enough, the loss of reputation and authority on YouTube? It is particularly difficult to draw a line when we are living in a time of rapid public comment. The most important thing is public relations management. Every politician and party strives to paint the story with selected facts and low-cost perspectives. This coloring, or spinning in English, is the most important skill of a skilled politician. It is no wonder that the public also strives to color the story and control the publicity. It was therefore good to hear that the Minister has put the Ministry of Finance’s communications department in order. When a public body speaks, responsibility must not be passed on to the listener. Madam Speaker! I am now trying to openly and unscrupulously reflect on the course of action of the current government, perhaps in the light of the truth economy, in the light of my former profession. I've been a journalist for over 30 years, and I've seen a lot of things. However, it is new how often and regularly it happens that the efforts of effective publicity management have to stretch the truth. I do not want to blame, but to see a phenomenon that will certainly pose challenges to others and also to future ministers of other parties. I myself noticed the phenomenon in the summer when the Minister of Finance announced at the press conference that the Greek line in Finland has not changed, although the Finnish line was suddenly to drive Greece out of the euro area. At the same time, we members of the large committee were bound by a demand for secrecy, which prevented us from questioning the Minister's argument. By way of exception, I had to lodge a complaint with the Chancellor of Justice, who at the time, however, stated that the government had acted in accordance with its powers, and I shall confine myself to this. It is clear, however, that the government had a monopoly in public administration. When the minister was not challenged, he could alter the truth. This is the expression used by the Helsingin Sanomat later. You can look at it from another angle and say that at the press conference, the roles of the minister and the party representative were mixed up. The former is not allowed to color reality; the latter is. The roles were similarly confused when the Minister of Finance commented on the SDP's alternative budget. On 25 November, the Minister made six false claims in less than a minute about the SDP's proposal. The next day, in less than a minute, he made three false claims and, at the end of the day, labeled the Socialist speaker’s presentation as nonsense. As such, this is a normal political speech, but the Minister always has the advantage of being given the floor, especially during Question Time, even when that is not the case. So he was allowed to use Parliament’s authoritative arena for a televised apology. It will be regrettable if parliamentary practices yield to the needs of public administration. It is easy to interpret the Minister's behaviour as arrogance, but more problematic is my observation at the end that the government does not appreciate the values of parliamentaryism I mentioned at the outset, which Ankersmit spoke of. Parliamentaryism is only possible if all parties respect each other’s truthfulness and good intentions. They should not be questioned. If we go any further on this road, we will be forced to replace parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u590	This matter will now be suspended and will be referred to later in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u591	Let's move on to the 15th item of the order of business. Let's continue the discussion on the intermission issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u592	Madam President! It is clear that we in Parliament must have the right information as a basis for decision-making. This cannot happen unless the preparation is transparent and truthful. It is the responsibility of the Ministry and thus the ministers that, among other things, the process of drafting the law is appropriate and that in Parliament we receive correct and fair information on the drafting of the law and the statements made on it. The Minister must also be able to trust that he will receive correct and duly prepared information from his ministry's officials. Mr Stubb, Minister of Finance, admitted that he had used an incorrect figure when he spoke in favour of a management register in Parliament. Mr Stubb said that 90% of the opinions issued would have been positive. Later he corrected his words, thus admitting an incorrect number. He's also apologized for what he did. He has taken full responsibility for this mistake and apologized for his actions, as I have just said. He hasn't accused anyone else of what he did. I think that apologizing is a sufficient punishment for himself. This misinformation is particularly reprehensible because it was precisely during Question Time. Question Time is the main channel for citizens to monitor parliamentary work. My mother is also following it. Giving the wrong picture will reduce the credibility and reliability of Question Time and will also do so to the Minister himself. I believe that Minister Stubb will in future check the information and numbers he uses in his speeches and answers to Parliament and will therefore improve his own operating practices in the Ministry. According to the Finnish Constitution, a Member of Parliament must appear firmly and with dignity and without offending another person. I do not think that Mr Stubb's actions are in conflict with the behaviour required of a Member of Parliament in law. Madam President! If I were a minister and had fallen asleep at a sporting event, even when I represented Finland, I would not be the first to throw a rock at another minister, but would still be ashamed. The Minister and the MP are in office 24 hours a day, whether he likes it or not, so he must also behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u593	Mr President! As has been said, the interim issue is the strongest point of the opposition in the political struggle between the government and the opposition. The aim of the intermediate issue is to overthrow the government. Other responsible opposition parties — the SDP, the KD and the RKP — have understood this aspect and are focusing on solving issues that are important for Finland, such as unemployment. This issue did not even have broad support for the opposition at the time of its birth. Mr President! Minister Stubb honestly said that he made a mistake during Parliamentary Question Time. Admitting your own mistakes is not easy or fun, but it is responsible to admit it when it is time. Because of the one-minute deadline, Question Time in Parliament is very hectic for representatives and ministers alike. A mistake of thought is a human error. Its recognition is an honest responsibility. Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, my esteemed representative, said today that he had been in Parliament for 37 years and that he had heard thousands of statements from ministers, and he said this was the first time that an individual minister was being hunted down on an intermediate issue. Although it seemed that today's day and evening disagreed with the original idea of the interim issue, I can well understand Minister Stubb when he said that it is difficult for him to separate and take away his own personality from this issue. Mr President! There is a great deal of expertise, ideas and development proposals in this Chamber, both in the government and in the opposition, and they have been widely heard this autumn. There have also been many constructive proposals from the Greens. Mr President! Minister Stubb said today that confidence in the drafting of legislation is of paramount importance. Each of us working in this house will certainly take the drafting of the law seriously. Among other things, representatives Räsänen and Tölli said that deliberate misunderstandings in this Chamber do not contribute to the handling of matters. Mr President! We representatives have credentials from the citizens, which require a valuable and meaningful approach to both the drafting of the law and to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u594	Madam President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Haavisto's motion of censure. The intermediate issue is not a single comment from one person, but about the reliability of legislation, the principle of good governance, the transparency of communication and the equal treatment of the media. The opposition gave the government a red card because it is a constant wrong play against the above principles. We appreciate Mr Stubb's apology for his false statement in front of Parliament. If there was only one opinion, there would be no need for a mid-term question. If the Prime Minister talks a lot about trust Sipilä would have been prepared to refer the matter to Parliament; there would have been no need for an interim question. However, the opposition is using the tool that has been left to it to bring the matter before Parliament and to allow Parliament, the public and the media to rely on the drafting of the law and the word of ministers. It is a little questionable to accuse the opposition of using the word 'false' if the criticism has been linked to the constant provision of false information. For example, Mr Zyskowicz himself has accused Parliament’s estimates based on the calculations of its information services of the savings made by the cuts in kilometric compensations as the biggest lie and humbug of autumn — the biggest lie and humbug of autumn. The argument goes to the same landfill category that the opposition only wants more debt in a situation where the government itself takes EUR 0.5 billion more debt than the current year. For example, the difference between the green alternative budget and the government proposal is EUR 250 million more debt, but it has a 0.4% lower impact on economic growth. Madam President! The preparation of the law must be based on expert knowledge, not on ignoring it and on underestimating it. Instead of beinglittled by docents or academic economic professors, we should listen to what they have to say. Government policy seems to be a study whose conclusions have been decided before the study has even begun. This undermines the credibility of the whole parliament and ministries and, through it, the credibility of the entire policy in the eyes of the citizens. During this autumn, government policy could be described by three p-letters: first decision, then reflection and finally withdrawal. This kind of rowing and felting could be avoided by prudent and well-prepared decision-making. Good decision-making also includes an assessment of the impact of decisions on citizens. Prime Minister Sipilä's reply to the request of 12 June 2015 to examine the impact of the Government Programme on gender equality is a good illustration of the government's approach to assessing the impact of its own decisions at all: "Let's first do the reform and see what we can achieve. Then we will evaluate the effectiveness of its plan, of course." As far as the management register is concerned, it is about the top of the iceberg. Parliament, citizens and the media should be concerned when the management register is wrongly justified through transparency and access to information, increased competition, lower investor costs and EU legislation, and it is said that the management register would not undermine the current situation. It is a good thing that the government finally knocked out the management register from this point of view, but I hope that the government will learn lessons from this and focus on increasing transparency and transparency in both domestic and EU policies. Among other things, the Government must implement the anti-tax avoidance action plan. In addition, it should implement a lobby register and set ministers and key officials on the so-called circular door phenomenon through the introduction of a stop-and-run time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u595	Mr President! For this interim debate, the point of view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was specifically to consider how to improve the drafting of legislation in Finland. After all, the debate was very pedigreed today, and I am sure it will also be a place for everyone to think about what this debate contributes to this respectability of politics and what can be interpreted about it on various sides. But this transparency in the drafting of the law itself and whether it is appropriate or not it is based on the right knowledge: There were many good examples of this here, bad examples of what it has led to, and that is for all of us. After all, this is specifically related to what this work in Parliament and in the Government looks like, what it gives people the impression of how people are doing and whether they are always doing things here on the basis of the right information and always transparently. In the course of this debate, the government also acknowledged to a large extent the shortcomings associated with the transparency, regularity and transmission of the correct information of the drafting of the law, and it was quite transparent that the need for improvement was also mentioned. Well, then we know that, if this is the case, that there really is a need for improvement in these matters, it is appropriate, however, that those needs for improvement should have been properly advanced and improved during this term of government, even if these issues have been discussed over the past few days in relation to the process of drafting different laws and how things are going. On this basis and largely on the basis of what, for example, a member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group In his own group statement, the rulings were rightly raised, and here on behalf of my group I now put forward the following motion of censure: "The Commission notes that the preparation of the law can lead to a better, more appropriate and more effective debate
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u596	Madam President! This content of the interim debate could have taken place if the Prime Minister had announced it. When this did not happen, the debate has taken place through the debate between the Left Alliance and the Greens. In the debate that has taken place, there will be greater attention to Parliament's legislative drafting in the future. I support Mr Räsänen's motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-15-ps-82.u597	Madam President! This intermediate issue is unnecessary. If there is anything good to be said about this, it relates to this debate on the responsibility of all of us for what we say and in what way. Throughout this autumn, the debate here has been tearing, breaking up and not in accordance with the authority of Parliament. Like many other Members of Parliament, I have heard the public’s feedback on this contentious and disrespectful behaviour towards one another. It has been the heavy general atmosphere of this autumn here, which has made this work a reality that sometimes wonders if we really can't do better. When I was here during the years 1997 to 2003 as an assistant and often followed the discussion in my office or in the gallery, at that time the culture of conversation here was still respectful. We really disagreed, but we didn't bother with the others, we went for coffee, and things were really talked about. I wish such a culture of respect could return to this house. Finally, I would like to quote my friend's words, who once said this on one occasion: 'Is it not at the end of the day that we are all so brightly present on our dark side? It is civilized to control this dark side and keep it out of sight, especially in such an authoritative work as the work of a congressman is."
