ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you that the maximum length of questions and answers is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u2	First question, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u3	Madam President! Regrettably, recent government decisions have treated pensioners very harshly. Travel costs are being cut, the cost of medicine. Customer fees are being increased and the housing allowance for pensioners was going to be cut. This is very unfair, and it was no wonder that the pensioners were in demonstrations about this and here in Parliament the opposition put a mid-term issue. It was a relief to hear that the government subsequently announced that the housing allowance for pensioners would not be cut. But the confusion was quite great when the day before yesterday, right after Minister Stubb told us that the housing allowance for pensioners was not being cut, the information came to the Chamber that on the same day the government had made a new cut in the housing allowance for pensioners. This time it is a cut through maximum housing expenditure. Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, how did this happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u4	Mr President! Let us make it quite clear at the outset that this housing allowance system for pensioners will remain the same, that is, that these schemes will not be combined. In this further preparation, the Government has outlined that, due to the equal treatment of all recipients of housing allowance, the maximum housing costs and spending standards will be maintained at the 2015 level. So it is not a question of surgery in principle, there will be no reduction, and there will be no rise, but the level will remain at the 2015 level. If it had been an operation, we in the government would have been able to combine this with the National Pensions Index, which would have meant that this would have fallen, and then it would have been an operation. But this is not what the government did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u6	Mr President! It is a little confusing that this is obviously an operation which the government does not think should be called an operation. The pensioners, the President, have been very concerned. They rightly wonder what has happened in all of this. Somehow it comes to mind that it is now the case that the government wants to hide these cuts and not openly disclose them. So I ask you, Minister Mäntylä: when you told me that the housing allowance for pensioners was not being cut, did you know that this new operation, which must not be called an operation, was planned?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u7	Mr President! As I told you here last night, and also to those representatives who are present, this government proposal has been being worked on since the summer, all autumn. This has been the subject of a very wide range of impact assessments at the Ministry, considering how we can safeguard and protect low-income pensioners in particular. Following the government's policy to cancel this merger, we also dealt with this general housing allowance. In this respect, we felt that, in the interests of equity, we support and treat the beneficiaries of general housing allowance and those receiving housing allowance for pensioners equally. This is where this issue has come up. Yesterday you asked, among other things, about these impact assessments, and now it is a pleasure to tell you a little about them here, I am sure they will come back to later in this debate. But, among other things, the calculated impact on the level of support is on average EUR 15 for these people who exceed the maximum housing expenditure and around EUR 7.5 for the new ones, which is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u10	Secretary Stubb completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u11	Madam President! I'd like to return this conversation to that big picture. We discussed the economic situation in Finland for the last two days, many hours. You mentioned Chapter 5, I mention Chapter II, Chapter 5, and that is that next year we will be taking over EUR 5 billion in additional debt. From the outset, this government has openly explained how we operate and strive to adjust the state finances. In practice, this means that we will have to adjust to some EUR 4 billion over the next four years. In practice, it means that we are unfortunately going to have to adapt from anywhere. Why? Because the Finnish economy needs to be balanced, because living as a debt has to stop, and because we are trying to improve both the employment situation and growth. In this light, the debate on housing aid for pensioners must be understood, but we must look at the overall picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u12	Mr President! Mr Mäntylä, it is good that you have just acknowledged in your speech that you are making a savings decision which affects the livelihood of many pensioners. I have two press releases from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The first is from Tuesday, where the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health says: "The Government proposes savings on general housing allowance and housing allowance for pensioners". This second fact sheet, the content of which is identical to that of the previous one, has been amended and supplemented in so far as the title of the Bulletin has been changed. But the result is, of course, that you will make a savings decision which next year will cut the housing allowance for pensioners by around 5 million and in the years to come by around 9 million, by almost EUR 10 million. Have you estimated how many pensioners this affects and what the impact of the combined cuts of these pensioners is?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u13	Mr President! In this debate, I would also like to raise a point which seems to be forgotten. It is that the government is also seeking through its decisions that we have the right and opportunity to live in affordable housing in the future. It is well known that every single increase in housing allowance will be more or less reflected in the rent levels. Here again is this kind of fresh news, which specifically tells — this is Yle’s news — that, for example, the ay movement has received almost EUR 50 million of VVO’s rental dividends over the last five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u14	Minister Mäntylä, time is up. — — — — I'm gonna ask the gym to calm down now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u16	Madam President! The six months are over. Today we are in a situation where we are not moving towards a single housing allowance system. The housing allowance scheme for pensioners will be maintained. The general housing allowance scheme will be maintained. The Government has openly stated that housing allowance expenditure will be frozen to the 2015 level. This means, among other things, that the situation of the group of people you seek, the lowest-income pensioners, has no impact on this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u17	Mr President! I would also like to remind you that we have a number of measures and decisions that we want to help these people with very low incomes, are pensioners or, for one reason or another, low incomes. I would also like to remind you, for example, that we are the ones who have reduced this decision to half the amount of medicine saved. So do you not see that, for example, here is one such measure that we are trying to help people with low incomes? The second thing is that if we genuinely want to help people with low incomes in housing matters too, then the only solution cannot be that the housing allowance, which in practice does not even help these people with low incomes but flows into something else, would be the right way or solution. You know that very well yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u18	Mr President! If it has not yet become clear to the opposition, then I hope that at least the Finnish people and the Finnish elderly population will now be made aware of the important fact, the decision that the government has indeed taken, that it was seen that the original idea that the housing allowance for pensioners would be integrated into the general housing allowance was not a sensible decision. It was challenging to do so in such a way that it would have been fair. Now that decision has been withdrawn and the housing allowance for pensioners will remain. It's very important. In addition to income, it is very important for the elderly that the services play. We have a lot of hard-working family workers. I would like to ask the government now that an important choice of values has been made in a difficult economic situation, that EUR 75 million will be invested annually in the development of informal care: at what stage will this work take place, and when will we get this important legislative proposal here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u19	Madam President! With regard to the timetable for the preparation of the budget, we will schedule the preparation of the law so that in spring 2016, a presentation will be brought to the plenary session to improve their ability to cope with the situation of family carers. We have a programme for the development of informal care during the last parliamentary term. There are the proposals that have been sought to promote during the last parliamentary term. To take forward the few things that the government has agreed on, which will clearly receive additional money, 75 million on an annual basis, in particular to cope with carers, to enable their holidays, to increase and improve their support services. In spring 2016, this law will be in Parliament so that it can be brought into force in the autumn of next year, at the latest in early August.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u20	Mr President! More than EUR 1 billion is spent annually on housing support. However, the current increases in costs are very small compared to this. What is the government’s view of what other means exist as the gap between housing allowance and rent continues to increase, in order to curb the increase in rent costs? However, general housing costs in the whole country are constantly increasing. Is this just the greed of the landlords?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u21	Mr President! A reasonable cost of living is an important objective in order to enable ordinary people or pensioners or anyone to live in different parts of the country. One way of curbing these growing costs is, of course, to consider building regulations, which bureaucratic fine-tuning we have collected, which in particular increases the cost of construction but does not in itself produce that quality of life for the person who lives in his own home or rent. So these building regulations, among other things, are being critically considered. In addition, there are a series of measures aimed specifically at increasing affordable rental housing production where there is a need to do so. It's one of the government's top projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u22	Madam President! The Government’s decision not to increase the maximum housing expenditure of a pensioner would, despite promises, in practice mean a reduction in the housing allowance of a pensioner. However, we now need to highlight the huge cut in pensions. The Board of Directors intends to increase customer fees by as much as 150 million from the beginning of next year. In practice, this means an increase of up to 30 per cent in health centre fees, clinic fees or, for example, on-call charges. Unfortunately, these increases again hit our weakest citizens and people who need a lot of services. I would point out that already in Finland there are major health inequalities, and this decision unfortunately adds to them. That is why I ask the minister concerned: are you really going to accept a 30% increase in customer fees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u23	Madam President! Sickness is one of the causes of inequality and poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u24	Mr President! I would normally have asked the Housing Minister about this housing policy. This government decision, as has been said, is not a cut: the levels will remain at this year's level. But when the housing allowance is usually increased, it will for some reason flow into rental prices, and the same amount of rent will be increased. Approximately half of the tenants live in government-subsidised Ara rental dwellings. And if you now look at the distribution of dividends by one of these operators, VVO — it is owned by the trade union movement: 4 million in 2008. From there it has risen gradually, and in 2014, nearly 25 million have been distributed. And I would like to ask the Minister: how will housing policy take this into account in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u25	Mr President! This issue has already been addressed in the Government negotiations and the Government has prepared a proposal without delay, which restricts the increase in rents for state-subsidised rental housing by reducing the return on equity of its landlord, owner-occupied housing from 8% to 4%. Consequently, state-subsidised housing production will not be able to unduly increase rents. In addition to this, of course, new measures will be introduced to open up this affordable rental housing production to new operators — moving on to a targeted review rather than to an operator-by-operator review.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u26	Madam President! It has become clear that the government treats pensioners in a very cold way: cuts are made. Minister Stubb, you were worried about the government debt. The SDP option takes less debt than the government takes, yet we would not cut off the lowest-income pensioners, the unemployed or families with children. Mr Stubb, there is another big issue in your proposal concerning pensioners: unfair tax treatment. You are making a difference between the tax treatment of an employee and a pensioner, and that is really wrong and contrary to the promises you made before the election as President of the Coalition Party to pensioners. Your basic philosophy was that taxation is fair, and now you are suggesting that this tax gap will be pulled out and that pensioners will be taxed more rigorously than employees in the future. Minister Stubb: Do you think this is right? Is this fair? Before the elections, you felt that this was not supposed to happen, and now it is. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u27	Mr President! Now I do not quite understand what this has to do with the original question, So you said just now, referring to the shadow budget of the SDP, that you will not increase the debt burden. That's bullshit. That's bullshit. That's bullshit. You increase the burden of debt, you increase taxation by EUR 750 million, you do not have any structural reform in that proposal, and on top of that you are trying to fix permanent expenditure with a Band-Aid. Then don't tell me you're not going to increase the debt burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u28	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u30	Madam President! The most important thing in the Paris climate negotiations is that almost all countries in the world are finally ready to take action to reduce global warming emissions. This is the number one case, and fortunately we already have over 170 countries' proposals for this. Those proposals will not be enough. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the negotiations between Finland and the EU is to agree on longer-term emission reductions as well as the periodic review of these promised actions. Of course, funding is an important issue, and Finland maintains its earlier commitments. However, it is good to remember that the money of any taxpayers in the world is not enough to stop climate change. The question is whether private companies and investors will start investing more strongly in clean technology and renewable energy after Paris.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u31	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u32	Mr President! The Minister did not answer the question I asked in actual fact,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u35	Mr President! Fortunately, the Finnish Government is ambitious, and in the spring negotiations we have decided that we will speed up Finland's own adjustment rate. We will raise the share of renewable energy already during this parliamentary term to the target level of 2020. Similarly, the overall reduction in emissions: we have promised to achieve those 2020 commitments already during this parliamentary term. After Paris, the European Union will begin to build on its 2030 target in more detail. We have a commitment to the negotiations to reduce emissions by at least 40%, which the EU has jointly done, and you, Mr Hassi, as former Minister for the Environment, know of course that the negotiations always start with a common goal and will not be tightened up with various prior promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u36	Madam President! We have a duty to our children to ensure good living conditions in the future, so I wish the Minister for the Environment the strength and success to have a comprehensive international climate agreement. After all, the market has already woken up to the fact that, if and when a climate agreement is reached, investment in coal-intensive sectors will be a major risk. And now many companies have already tried to get rid of the carbon bubble, have gone to sell off their holdings in coal-intensive sectors. I would ask the government, the corresponding minister: What about Finnish government investments? Employment pension companies, investments through Solidium, what kind of carbon bubble risk is there, and have measures been taken to target investments more sustainably?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u37	Mr President! The actual carbon bubble risk analysis has not been carried out, but Solidium's portfolio also includes Finnish companies that make products in, for example, the renewable energy area and so on. Yes, our focus will be there all the time, and we will be renewed in that direction. We must also do those practical things here in the capital region. Yes, this pile of coal here is such a business card that we do not want to introduce as Finland, as a carbon-free society and as a renewable energy society. I therefore appeal to the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki and the capital region to move towards renewable energy here too. Finnish companies play their part, and the objectives of the Finnish Government in this respect are significantly stronger than those of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u38	Mr President! For the Prime Minister's information, we will decide on our Helsinki Energy Development Plan next week in Helsinki, and it will be very ambitious. Mr President! Climate change is actually one of the greatest challenges of our time, and Paris is forced to succeed. The effects of climate change are very broad. One of them is climate refugees. The climate causes drought, floods and natural disasters and thus affects people's living conditions in their own region. The current influx of refugees also has an impact on the climate. Syria experienced a historic drought of many years at the beginning of the 21st century, and this, of course, has an impact on people's livelihoods. If, for example, a farmer no longer provides for himself, then it is necessary to start looking for a living on the other hand. That is why I would ask you, Minister Orpo: What role do you think climate change plays in the number of refugees on the move? We know that refugees seeking to enter Finland are already putting our reception systems on the line. Would it not make sense to influence the causes of refugees, such as the fight against climate change and development aid? Not only is it human, but it also makes economic sense. So how do you see the role of climate change and its fight against refugees?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u40	Mr President! Perhaps we could start with the fact that it is very important to succeed in Paris to reach a global consensus on how to curb climate change. If you look at the root causes of immigration, migration, refugees, you will certainly find climate change as one of the major factors. Especially in the African region, and why would the effects not be visible in Syria, living conditions, opportunities to support themselves, to live in their own country, to live in their own region, are smaller, and that is one of the reasons why people are driven around. At the same time, to the same regions, to add that population growth is very strong and the overall level of income is very low, it is all because of the one we are now facing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u41	Madam President! Mr Hassi raised the issue of climate change and, in the same speech, expressed his concern about the cuts in development funds. On the other hand, the government is increasing the capitalisation of Finnfund, and I understand Finnfund is investing in companies operating in developing countries. Now I would like to hear from the minister responsible: is it the case that these companies are doing work that is positive for the climate, such as solar power, wind power, which employs the local population and has a positive impact on the climate?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u42	Minister Toivakka is not here, but Minister Soini will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u43	Madam President! This is a very good and important issue, including at principle level, in such a way that many industrialised countries, including the countries of the European Union, are in many ways customs unions and customs cartels. In other words, in view of the situation that developing countries, for example, which produce olives or other products of different appearances, do not get these fairly on the world market, a situation will arise which will then affect refugee and migration as a pusher. If we do not do fair trade, then we will accept these people, who will lose the prerequisites for living in a situation where trade is not fair and they will not succeed. That is why Mr Kiuru's question in a broad sense was very important and essential. Trade policy is part of a sustainable development policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u44	Mr President! Climate change and the fight against it are the biggest issue of our time for mankind. Climate debt is the biggest sustainability gap that Finns and all people in the world have, and that is what we have to deal with for our children, that global warming does not threaten economic well-being and the future of people. For this reason, it would be important for the government to take real concrete action and not just talk. For example, domestic employment pension funds have not yet started to transfer money to sustainable investments, as has been done in Norway, for example, Sweden. It would be important for the government to conduct this dialogue with these Finnish institutions. I would also like to return to the original question and present the Minister. One more question to the brickman: Are you aware that Finland has agreed, together with other industrialised countries, to raise climate finance to USD 100 billion for developing countries by 2020, and all countries are expected to increase funding at least? Is the Finnish Government prepared to increase this year's climate funding by EUR 88 million to a significant extent for next year, so that developing countries commit themselves to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u45	Mr President! I am aware of this question raised by Mr Niinistö. In other words, the developed countries in previous climate negotiations have made a commitment to mobilise USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in climate action, adaptation and mitigation of climate change in the poorest countries. As part of this, Finland has made its own promises to the various climate funds, and we will stick to these promises. We stick to what we're committed to. But I will continue to repeat that the money of any taxpayer in any country will not be enough alone, and that is why it is the most important question of how to get the message from the Paris negotiations that this private money is geared towards clean technology, renewable energy, both in us and in developing countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u46	Mr. Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u47	Madam President! Emissions trading income has been directed to climate work in Finland so that it has been directed to climate work in developing countries. But this will not be the case in the future if the government gets its radical proposal through and wants to direct emissions trading revenues in the future mainly to support energy-intensive industries. Although Finnish industry and society do their best to reduce climate emissions, they are also causing some of them. However, the common and general view in Finland is that efforts should be made to reduce emissions mainly away from us. Where the potential for reducing climate emissions is highest. I ask Mr Tiilikainen: is it not, therefore, perverse that you do not want to give emissions trading income to these countries, where the potential for reducing emissions is greatest, and you do not want to give it through development cooperation money?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u48	Mr President! I do not know how many times I would repeat that the Finnish Government has committed itself to doing more in Finland than any previous government, regardless of its colours, has been prepared for. We have been prepared to tighten up the commitments we have made together, to tighten up the timetable for reducing emissions and increasing the share of renewable energy through domestic measures. In addition, we are pursuing a rather ambitious climate policy in the European Union, which, on the one hand, ensures continuity for existing Finnish industrial jobs and, on the other hand, creates opportunities for new export sectors, new clean technologies and companies investing in them. We will also speed this up with the government's key projects. As far as the EU is concerned, it is also possible to compensate for the indirect effects of emissions trading on industry, the government, like many other EU countries, makes use of this opportunity and is prepared to channel some of that funding to industry. But there's no record of... [President MariaLohela: We are now full of time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u51	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u52	Madam President! Among other things, the police, the prosecution and the tax authorities oppose the government’s planned management register. The management register would provide the opportunity to hide stock holdings abroad, which would give criminals more and more tools to eat our tax money. The Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance has also submitted a very critical opinion on the management register, but the Ministry of Finance has tried to conceal this statement. Madam President! My question to Mr Stubb is: why do you want to protect the hiding of property and tax havens, and why do you want to hide the critical statements of your own ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u53	Madam President! Actually, I don't want either. On the first point, as Mr Arhinmäki, the former Minister for Finance, well knows, there are always different views in the Ministry, then we try to find a common position and come out with it — a perfectly normal legislative process. This is actually covered by the legislation on publicity, and that is why, when asked for, it is obvious that we will give out these statements. But usually when a public opinion is requested, the Ministry does not do so. The second question on the management register: there are, of course, a lot of misunderstandings here, and one of them is that this way could be better hidden. The cold fact is that today, if a Finnish wants to hide its share ownership abroad, it is very easy to do so. What we have been trying to achieve with this management register system is to find a solution that would be much more transparent and better than the current solution, which is an intermediate state that simply does not work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u54	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u55	Madam President! The leak revealed that the Tax Department has also been very critical in this regard. You say that this will increase transparency. So are the police, the prosecutor, the tax office, all these things wrong? So you rely more on yourself than on the authorities in charge. Madam President! This is not just the criticism of the authorities and experts, but also political criticism. Foreign Minister Soini has said that poor reforms are worth noting, specifically referring to the management register. Well, we all know, of course, that there is a huge contradiction between Soin's words and actions,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u58	Madam President! We are still in the process of preparing legislation. In practice, this is divided into two. One is the CSD Regulation, which needs to be implemented, and one of its components is the management registry system. The authorities to which you referred just now criticised the system we have today. If we look at these statements, about 90% of the opinions are actually positive. Why? Because they understand that capital is involved. This means that we must have more investment, more capital, in Finland. If we do not have a management register system and money moves freely within the European Union, that means that money flows outwards. Let me give you an example. If a small and medium-sized Finnish banking company is established, it makes no sense to invest in Finnish investments, Finnish shares and Finnish securities. Why? Because the costs are simply too high. Because it is not a Finnish company but a Belgian monopoly which produces no kind of competition but acts as a monopoly here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u59	Madam President! This is a matter that is still under discussion in the government, and it is relevant to look at things on a number of different sides. I am very pleased that Mr Arhinmäki has become a friend of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u60	Mr President! For example, the left-wing alternative budget presented yesterday specifically provides for more funds for the police, the tax authorities, the prosecutor for the anti-gravity of the economy. That's what we've been saying before. The grey economy is a cancer in society that eats up the opportunity for honest entrepreneurs to act, it eats up the welfare state. Madam President! As far as the Belgian monopoly company is concerned, nothing gives it an automatic monopoly. We can also set up similar Finnish companies here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u61	Madam President! Of course, it is illegal in Finland. But what we are trying to do now is to build a system that would be more transparent than the current state. That is why, when this has been the case in two consultation rounds, we have tried to make changes that will help to make it more transparent. There are about 1.3 million direct accounts through which Finns are investing today. They contain about 100 accounts with daily traffic. There are six countries which do not have a management register system within the European Union. They are Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, Greece, Finland and Slovenia. Now we are trying to get into the mainstream, such as Sweden, where this system would be. There are many models in Sweden where transparency is increased, such as the fact that the public person or the person responsible has to report that he is in the management register. We have also set up a system with the PRH to monitor the operation of these accounts. Yes, this is an attempt to increase transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u62	Madam President! It is indeed necessary to re-evaluate this management register.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u63	Madam President! We will accept all the proposals that will increase transparency. But here's a reason to look at that big picture and base it on what we're trying to do. Each of us wants more investment in Finland. Each of us wants more capital in Finland. But if there is no system in Finland that increases the free movement of capital, we will become a backward country of capital. If we do not take the management register forward, I can guarantee that Finland will lose growth, Finland will lose capital and, unfortunately, Finland will lose jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u65	Mr President! I would remind you that, according to forecasts, next spring will be the biggest dividend-sharing celebration of this millennium. So that's what the capital seems to be. Mr Stubb, you said that 90% of the contributors actually understood what was at stake and considered this to be a good thing. It can be concluded from this that your own tax department is not competent and does not understand this question. As a member of the tax section of the Committee on Finance, when Minister Soini said about these friendships, I believe that there should be a friend with the tax department, and I trust the expertise of the tax department. This is quite a mistrust of one of the key Directorates-General of your own ministry, if you say that 90% have understood this proposal and 10% have not understood it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u66	Madam President! Maybe I misunderstood your interpretation because that wasn't even my message. The message is that when we receive statements from different authorities, we will certainly try to seek the good and the bad when we move some legislation forward. I would also like to emphasise that we are trying to do two things: firstly, there is a management register that will guarantee that more capital will flow to Finland; and secondly, lastly today, we have put forward the International Tax Exchange Information Regulation, which aims to ensure that by 2017, when capital moves freely, we will also be able to exchange tax information. Unfortunately, there are so many misunderstandings around this control register that at some point you just want to raise your hands up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u68	Next question, Congressman Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u69	Madam President! The European Union is proposing a directive prohibiting the possession of automatic and single automatic weapons similar to a military weapon by non-governmental authorities. The Reservists are the backbone and cornerstone of our defence. Volunteer reservers practice about 19,000 days each year in controlled exercises with their own weapons and ammunition, not to mention the exercises they do in their spare time outside this derived training activity. If the EU directive is implemented, one-time automatic weapons similar to the military weapons of our reservists will be removed, and therefore their training will be almost impossible. This also has an impact on national defence capabilities. Madam President! I ask the Minister for Defence what measures the government intends to take to ensure the active shooting activity of Finnish reservists in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u70	Madam President! The Government considers this amendment to the Arms Directive to be problematic, particularly in the context of voluntary national defence. There's a risk of going with the baby's bath water. The Commission does not understand the Finnish defence model. It is based on a general military duty and, therefore, on a reserve which will form a wartime force, while much of the other EU countries have professional armies, so it is particularly important that we reserve the possibility of self-rehearsaling, carrying out shooting exercises. The Government is trying to influence the Arms Directive. The Commission's competence is not to interfere with Finland's defence solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u71	Mr President! This Arms Directive was on the agenda of the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs last week as part of the EU Counter-Terrorism Package. In this context, the Arms Directive itself is being supported, but on this one point, which Minister Niinistö has rightly spoken about, I have left reservations on behalf of Finland, which is what we want from this defence perspective, which is important to us, in further preparation, to find an exception for Finland which will continue to keep this important reserve activity and the rifle used as a reserve weapon in our range. The whole of this regulation of the Arms Directive in Europe is strongly linked to the atmosphere that exists in Europe after the attacks in Paris. In Finland, this is an exception, and we must make it clear in Europe that it is a matter of national defence. Otherwise, the European countries will be on a very strong front in calling for this weapons directive to move forward. We must work well with Minister Niinistö in order to deal with this issue of national security in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u72	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u73	Madam President! This same directive is also a cause for concern in hunter circles, because it is obvious that if the EU now gets its way, the everyday life of many hunters may also change with this. Is this matter known to the government, and in what way are you trying to influence it? On a general level, it must be said that there is currently a need to see that forest from the trees and to consider where it makes sense for the EU to intervene in this legislation, and where it makes more sense for it to be managed at national level. It is quite clear that the EU is now going to a region where the competence of the EU is not sufficient to understand the practices of different countries. It is also clear that here perhaps we are looking for more symbolic acts than actual rational acts that can prevent such atrocities as what was seen in Paris. Indeed, I would like the government to take a good, sensible line here and to try to address the problems that we actually have and which are very tragic.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u74	Mr President! In the preparation of that directive, it has already been possible to ensure that the so-called more conventional hunting rifles or rifles and weapons used in shooting sports are not, as it were, a target here. And, as has been said, the government will do everything in its power to ensure that this issue of defence is dealt with. I would also like to point out, in order to illustrate the atmosphere, that several speeches in the Council pointed out that a large proportion of the weapons used in the Paris attack were deactivated weapons, which had been re-introduced. This is because we understand why the countries of central Europe, and indeed the countries on the broad front, are pushing this weapons directive very hard at the moment. It creates our own challenges for us to influence this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u75	Mr President! As has been said, participation in voluntary defence work plays a very important role in maintaining Finland’s defence capability. The maintenance of reservist skills is also carried out in a number of exercises in society other than the Defence Forces. Hunting, for example, plays an important role in supporting reserve skills. So I ask the Minister for Defence: how does the government intend to ensure that the maintenance of our defence capabilities is taken into account in the preparation of the various legislations when the law indirectly concerns the conditions for voluntary defence work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u76	Madam President! This reform of the Arms Directive in these aftermath of the Paris terrorist attacks is, of course, aiming at good things, the prevention of illicit arms trafficking, crime and terrorism. At the same time, however, it would indeed, as Mr Koski said, hinder voluntary defence work. And we must be vigilant — we have good cooperation with Home Secretary Orpo on this matter. And the same should be said for other things that come through the EU, with sound criticism and peasantism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u77	Madam President! I understand the debate on reserve operations and hunting, but I understand that there are two big questions in this weapons directive. One is the deactivation and the other is the online store where different countries still operate differently at European level. This is probably a concern: in other countries, it will be easier to re-introduce weapons that have been rendered in different ways out of action than in other countries. What kind of debate has been held there about these uniform practices, so that they really would not be possible even if they were sent out in pieces and reassembled? The second is also, of course, the resources of customs to control this online trade and their registration of weapons purchased through the online store.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u78	Mr President! The main objectives of the directive are precisely those mentioned by Mr Paatero: what we can do to prevent illegal weapons from entering the market in general and to control the market will give us the same regulation in different European countries. These are the good objectives that Finland can easily support and most of the Arms Directive is to be welcomed. But then we have this national issue, which we must uphold in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u79	Madam President! I would like to pick up where Mr Paatero left off, i.e. these questions which the directive may be useful to the European Union as a whole, i.e. blocking loopholes in online commerce and common deactivation practices, as well as future issues relating to 3D-printed weapons. However, from the point of view of the fight against terrorism, the majority of EU countries seem to be in favour of an even stricter arms directive. I would now like to ask the Government how you are currently assessing Finland's position, i.e. whether Finland and its objectives on this issue are alone and whether, for example, the total ban on online commerce is going through, which would certainly be a problem for hunting enthusiasts in Finland with long distances.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u80	Mr President! I believe that the EU front for the draft submitted by the Commission was very united. As far as Finland is concerned, it is precisely once again this exception to defence and its negotiations. That is where we are alone because we have a very exceptional system. We are an exceptional country in that sense, and that matter must be dealt with by us. But, for the most part, we are — and we need to look at some more details — very much in the same direction as the European countries, by the way, in this arms directive, which is therefore tightening up the arms legislation in Europe. We must always remember that there is a well-controlled system in Finland, a well-functioning system in which the authorities, led by the police, ensure that the weapons are well-registered. They are available to people who have the right and the right to do so, and thus in Finland things are in good shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u81	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 7/2015 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u82	Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has discussed and finalised the report on the citizens' initiative to amend the on-call regulation on childbirth. This citizens' initiative proposes Article 50 of the Health Care Act a new Article 3 to be added. This article would provide for the possibility for the municipality or joint municipal authority to decide on the emergency ward of doctors at the maternity hospital, unless the hospital has centralised care for risk-bearing babies. This article would also define groups of professionals who must arrive quickly at the on-call unit if they are not immediately available. According to the current Health Care Act, for the purpose of providing emergency care, the municipality or the joint municipal authority of the hospital district must organise 24-hour emergency services. The on-call unit must have sufficient resources and expertise to ensure the quality of care and patient safety. According to the current on-call regulation... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry,Mr Haatainen,wait a moment. — I would ask the representatives to move these talks outside the Chamber so that the speaker can speak in peace. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u85	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for a very good report as such, but in a way, when the arguments were then read through, the outcome could have been different, because it is also true that, when we look at scientific studies, this threshold of 1 000 births is very problematic and there is at least no scientific basis for it. And when this citizens' initiative was discussed here in the spring, it became apparent in the discussions that that limit could have been anything else. When, for example, a few years ago in the British Journal of Medicine there was a study by Finnish researchers of how the maternity hospital system in our country has worked for small maternity wards, it was far from reaching the conclusion that they were weaker, but just as well had done. And of course, if you look at, for example, the West Basin, which is now under this thousand births, then there for example, perinatal mortality, that is, the number of deaths in the womb or in the first week of life, has been below the average for small maternity hospitals in many years. It has even been below the number of large maternity hospitals. And, of course, when we are doing terribly well in the Nordic comparison, we are actually at the highest level there, there is certainly no reason to begin to undermine the possibility of childbirth. Of course, of course, childbirth is always a risk for a woman, and especially if there are further distances of 100 kilometres or more, it is indeed a major concern for us. Of course, I understand that there must be an obstetrician, an anesthesiologist and an operating team available immediately, a pediatrician, but this threshold of 1,000 births is not based on anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u86	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to amend the on-call regulation on childbirth is well-founded and concerns about an important issue are understandable. Although normal childbirth is quite natural, parents always worry about whether things are going well. In particular, the first birther is often uncertain about the new life experience, and if the maternity hospital is very far away, fear of whether to give birth to it is only natural. No one should have to give birth in a taxi or in general without the help of the person involved. Well, it was mentioned that there has been an increase in the number of births, but there have been no complaints about them, for example, that there has been no major risk. After the initiative has been drawn up, the amended Regulation provides for the possibility of authorising an application to derogate from the requirement of a thousand births per year if the accessibility or patient safety of the service so requires. After all, last year five were granted this birthright, that is, for all who applied for a permit. Last year there were also eight hospitals with fewer than a thousand births per year. At the moment, there are 27 of these birthing hospitals, and it is planned that they might be reduced. It is important that risk births are anticipated. This requires comprehensive, functional maternity clinic activities and good, centralised management of risk childbirths. The hospital for childbirth must be prepared for emergencies as well as for pre-existing problems. Professional staff can avoid complications. It is estimated that 10% of newborns always require supervised intensive care. According to the survey, the increase in travel births has taken place in Southern Finland, where distances are not very long. In the area of longer distances, the problem is that we go to the hospital too early and then have to spend long periods in or around the hospital, and often these costs may be high for the family. In Pirkanmaa, births were discontinued at Vammala regional hospital in 2013 and centralized at Tampere University Hospital. I do not think that this has caused any problems, but that it has been possible to guarantee patient safety, and if you think of Pirkanmaa, it is as far away as it was to the Vammala regional hospital in the past, i.e. it goes from the back of the building for 1.5 hours, whether we go to Tampere or Vammala. Mr President! Here, too, the committee has stated that the committee does not consider it necessary or appropriate to provide in the Health Care Act for the organisation of one special emergency call, as proposed in the citizens' initiative. While the concern about this issue must be understood, we must also remember that we are finally going to have a major reform of social welfare and health care, which will certainly also look at the availability of maternity emergency services in the whole country in a balanced manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u87	Madam President! I would like to remind the previous representative that in the spring of 2015, the Finnish people in their own election programme now wrote that "we believe that the on-call regulation, which has recently entered into force, should be dismantled". The Finns of Peru continue to say that "the Finns of Peru do not accept the concentration of births only on large units". Now you have the seat of the Minister of Social Affairs and Health. Where are these promises? Where do they appear in today's politics regarding this on-call regulation? When we were dealing with this in committee, the only one who agreed with the disagreement between me and the RKP was the representative of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u88	Mr President! Congressman Henriksson intervened in the right things. On such a big issue, we must remember what was said before the elections, especially when it comes to the citizens' initiative, and what was said, for example, by Minister Mäntylä, and this is particularly true for his region of origin. If I'm not wrong, then over 50,000 of those signatures came from the Meri-Lap area. And here we are, when that committee was able to go some way, so that all it did was make these statements, which have been recorded there, we want to ensure that, and we want to look at the procedures, whether it is still possible to make a more substantial voting order at second reading, according to the fact that we want the citizens' initiative to go on working on the basis of its citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u89	Mr President! The committee has listened very carefully to the experts and has come to an end here — the rejection of the citizens' initiative — not by looking at the electoral programmes but by taking care of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, please. So many answers have now been asked here that I opened the debatable button. — Mr Jalonen is next.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u96	Mr President! The committee is working with experts, and the committee is always looking into this issue as comprehensively and extensively as possible. On the basis of the consultation of these experts, the committee will produce a report. And when it comes to a citizens' initiative, there is no basis for such a base proposal, what the government's proposal is, but it comes specifically from the citizens. Consequently, on the basis of experts' opinions, the committee will draw up its report. And I find it wonderful to question the situation, in this situation, that the majority have listened correctly to the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u97	Mr President! In this hearing, no expert said that there are studies that a smaller hospital unit would be worse than a larger one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u98	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u134	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u145	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u155	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u162	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u370	Mr President! Now it seems that these immigration policy programmes have come to the political agenda at the time when the Finns have begun to act, but this is not the case. The Christian Democrats' immigration policy programme is in the late 1990s and I think it was the first time in Finland. At that point there was, I think, a group of three fundamental Finns, and immigration policy was not very central to the debate and the politics that the then parliamentary group was doing here. I appreciate Mrs Elo, she is one of the basic Finns who are able to talk with reason and rightly about this matter, but it still leaves me with a slight feeling that you think that this figure, 450 million, is now miscalculated. I understand, however, that you have argued that these are the necessary additions that must be made in this situation, so that we can move forward and get things done properly and in a humane way, but then at the same time you criticise why the opposition does not now make these proposals and, for example, start to make cuts to them. Should we think, however, that in some way these sums have been miscalculated in the Ministry of Finance and there is something here that does not belong to this item? That's what we're left with. As Mr Heinäluoma well described, it sounded like some kind of acrobatic, and so I was left with the feeling that this has been correctly calculated or miscalculated. Should we now be presenting this and how many hundred million out of this item?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u371	Mr President! It is therefore important to say that the Finnish people are not now asking you why this crisis is at hand and what the previous or previous government did, but the Finnish people are asking you as government parties what you are doing to deal with this issue. How are you going to handle this? And so do we, with good faith. How are we going to do this? It is not worth continuing the debate that what has been done and I too have done in the year of the government, but now those people are here, they are seeking asylum, and then some of them will be accepted and must somehow be sent back here. There should be some answers to this. And for that reason, the government is to give answers, and then Parliament will accept them if it considers them to be the right answer. You now have power, and with that, you also have responsibility. That is why it is not worth asking the opposition why we do not propose changes to the government's budget on immigration. That all you have to do now is to influence the government and make a good policy so that immigration issues are well under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u372	Mr President! Mr. Essayah, thank you for your compliments, and I think you too are a very proper and intelligent representative. Representative Heinäluoma, this is how the government is affected. This is the way it has to be, and as I said, according to the analyses of Helsingin Sanomat, we have been influenced so that the government's policy is stricter than it was before, and that is correct. But, Mr Essayah, I am correcting the view that I am not saying, of course, that these expenses or expenses have been miscalculated here as far as this is concerned. Our answer as a government is, of course, in this supplementary budget, of course. But when I think about these sums, which we are talking about, I would really like to have more debate on these overall effects of immigration in economic, social, cultural terms over the next few years, not just in relation to this budget, but more broadly. I believe and hope that this will happen in Parliament over the next few years. And yes, the Finns of Peru are assuming that we have a government responsibility and indeed we do, and when the next parliamentary elections take place, the people will then give the answer as to how the work has been done. That's how it's supposed to be in a democracy. That's all it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u374	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma, I am delighted to hear that you are really interested in these basic Finnish immigration policy solutions that will be presented. These options will, of course, be reviewed all the time and then appropriate changes will continue to be made. But we must remember that we are actually doing this immigration policy on three fronts: firstly, this border and asylum policy and that asylum criteria policy. But then we are making work and social policy among those who have come here, and thirdly we are making this policy of expulsion and return more effective. We will all pay attention to these, and we have already made quite a good start in preparing these new reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u377	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u378	Mr President! This is a legislative initiative to amend Article 13 of the Law on structural aid for agriculture, and is based on the following arguments: Article 13 of the Agricultural Structural Aid Act prohibit the granting of investment aid for a measure the implementation of which has been initiated. The reason for this has been that the aid must be an incentive and if the investment has been started before the aid decision, it has been considered that the incentive is missing. The ban on start-up aid before the final decision on aid has been taken has led to problems in agricultural enterprises. In the current year, there have been situations in which applications for investment aid have not been submitted for reasons completely independent of farmers. Of course, when the application could not be lodged, the decision has also been delayed. This has led to situations where farmers have had to cancel their planned investment order. The delay in investment due to the inflexibility of structural aid schemes is regrettable, as agricultural investment has a significant impact on employment and the regional economy. Therefore, the Law on structural aid for agriculture must be amended so that the farmer can start the investment at his own risk even before the investment decision is taken. This is possible in other businesses. There you can start the investment once the application has been submitted. — It is therefore appropriate to harmonise this practice which exists in other businesses, including in the agricultural sector. EU legislation does not prevent the amendment of the law. Article 60 of Regulation 1305/2013 of the EU Parliament and of the Council reads as follows: "Member States may provide in their programmes that only expenditure which has been incurred since the adoption of the aid — In other words, it says here that they can ‘determine’ a state of affairs such as that of the present law, but of course that does not mean that they must. In other words, has EU legislation again been interpreted in a stricter way? On this basis, I propose that Parliament adopt this draft law amending Article 13 of the Law on structural aid for agriculture, subject to the conditions of the measure to be supported: 'A farm investment aid may also be granted for a measure which has been initiated.'
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u379	Mr President! Mr Jokinen's bill is good and very timely, for there are many reasons why this should be taken forward. Farmers are in serious difficulties today, and it is essential that farms continue to invest and develop. Mr Jokinen's view that, if any agency has problems with information systems and farmers are unable to implement their own timetables for investment, then in some way legislation should be made more reasonable in that direction, as Mr Jokinen suggests, that the farmer, as in business life elsewhere with regard to these subsidies, can start investing at his own risk and nevertheless be able to obtain aid if the conditions for aid are met. In general, these legislative initiatives taken by Members of Parliament are then very easily pushed into the committee and are not dealt with, but in this case I really hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will stop at this initiative and actually assess whether it is worth taking it, because this is also a question of equality. Farmers are entrepreneurs like other entrepreneurs, and then support practices should also be similar. If this is not really prevented by EU regulations, then it is absolutely essential that this practice be taken in Finland, including in the case of farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u380	Mr President! This certainly seems to be a very welcome initiative. I would have asked Mr Jokinen whether it would be possible to interpret this EU regulation in such a way that, for example, the costs which the farmer has started before the permit has arrived would then be as if on his own hands, or would you interpret it in such a way that, in a way, this would mean that all the possible costs would also be potentially eligible, or only then the costs incurred after that aid comes. So would it be that if a project is started, then you can also take the risk that you are prepared to bear the costs yourself?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u381	Mr President! That statement of the EU Parliament Directive that Member States may provide that only expenditure incurred after the Authority has approved its application for aid can be interpreted in such a way that it is not mandatory, it is not binding: Member States may also act differently. In other words, they may impose their legislation in such a way that expenditure may also be eligible before the aid application has been accepted, when only the aid application has been submitted, and it is the idea of this legislative initiative that, once the aid application has been submitted, the investment can be started at its own risk and then the aid decision comes afterwards. In agriculture in particular, and in construction in general, the seasons affect when it is worthwhile and when it is possible to take these construction projects forward. And in view of the fact that we have estimated in 2012 that some 57,000 farms have some 43,000 farms left in 2020, this means that we have a larger size of farms. The investment needs of these continuing holdings are very high in order to maintain its profitability in the agricultural sector in such a way as to enable it to continue. That is why this flexibility in agricultural investment aid and the change in legislation in order to mobilise such investment is important. If the agricultural undertaking, at its own risk, starts it, it is not, in a way, out of this system either, and in that sense I have taken this initiative and I believe that it should be promoted, because these investments are of strong employment, but also of great regional economic importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u382	Mr President! Of course, it is a little embarrassing to say that you have not read your homework now, but when I listened to the content of the legislative initiative taken by Mr Jokine when he told me about it, I must say that I was particularly interested in what has been the situation in Satakunta this year, for example, where investments of EUR 52 million were only waiting for the decision when this Mavin Hyrrä system did not work, and the business investments in the rural structural funds could not start until the application had been submitted. Well, reason was taken and accepted that the regional government authorities, the ely centres, can do them on paper and then afterwards take them to the Hyrrä system. However, as a more specific question: is it really the case that you are talking about this same thing or that farm investments can also start to take off after the application has been submitted — or even at their own risk? That's a little more specific. But, as Mr Eestilä also said, I am very happy to believe that such an initiative is not just being swept away from the table in committee, but it is actually being taken into consideration, for all the entrepreneurship-promoting activities that can be done in rural areas are particularly important for young entrepreneurs, farmers, and it is to be welcomed that these investments will not just be caught up in some application process.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u383	Mr President! In that way, this bill is important that we many Members of Parliament certainly get calls from farmers and other entrepreneurs, and especially from farmers, where they tell us, for example, about environmental permits and others, that it may take a year. They are run and run, and this also has to do with this particular speed, that when people, businesses or farmers have the enthusiasm to invest and are on the move, then the ultimate task of the authorities is to help and speed up these different-looking permits and processes, unless there are clear obstacles to the environment or something else. That's why we have to help these people in every way, that when you're on the move and winter pushes you on or otherwise, then you can do it regardless of whether any information system works or not, yes on paper, let it go. And then we in the committees, as Mrs Myllykoski said, will see what the reality is and we will sort this out. If it's worth taking forward, let's take it forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u384	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u385	Mr President! Act on the abolition of fairway charges: 90% of Finland's exports and 70% of imports pass by sea — Finland is an island. We know how significant a proportion of Finnish products, both forest, metal and chemical, are in the transport sector. When I look at the statistics on transit traffic at the largest Hamina-Kotka port in Finland, it currently looks less than 14%. There are several reasons for this. The first and great one, which has been discussed several times by Parliament: the sulphur directives have come, according to some estimates, cost EUR 400 million, estimated at EUR 600 million. In other words, additional costs for ships due to either cleaning systems or the purchase of more expensive fuel. Well, this came after well-known episodes. The second thing is, of course, that we currently have a recession in the economy, both in Finland and in neighbouring countries, so that the Russian economy is not in the best condition, and the Ruble rate is so low that it will undoubtedly also have consequences in transit traffic. That is the third reason: the fairway charge currently gives a competitive advantage to new ports, which have been built and built all the time on that side of Russia and the Baltics, there is no fairway charge at all. In other words, these ports here in Finland compete in a completely different competitive environment compared to other ports in other countries, and especially if you think about this northern part of the Gulf of Finland, where the goods can easily move from one route to another, as has already been the case at the moment, that they travel from there to the Baltics or directly to the ports near St.Petersburg. And here, of course, the competitive advantage is quite a few million from the shipping companies that visit. In addition, it has been well known that the fairway charging system is rather opaque and treats different loads very differently. On several occasions we have already considered what that system could be and those changes have been made. Even the previous government, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, has halved the bus fares. Which means we've already lowered the level. For this reason, I have taken a legislative initiative, and also a budgetary initiative, so that our ports and Finland's living from exports will also be true in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u386	Mr President! I have to say that we have heard good legislative initiatives today and we really do think about Mr Paatero's view that we are an island and that our export industry and our industry and competitiveness in general are also heavily dependent on maritime transport and, in particular, on maritime transport. Do you think there would have been the beginnings of the government, the previous government, where was Merja Kyllönen, the left-wing Minister of Transport, during which these ideas were beginning to be renewed? At the time, I think that the Finnish Transport Agency made a particularly good proposal on how we should reform our fairway charges, and it has just been pointed out that we have a different export industry, an export industry to which raw materials are imported on large ships. In Satakunta, we have a metallurgical industry where raw materials from Australia, Chile come by sea, and those ships go there, so to speak, each company, perhaps three or four times at most, always pay a full fairway fee when the fairway charges leave the route ten times after and from the cruise ships thirty times after they are released from the fairway charges. It would be particularly important now that, with this system of fairway charges, which is, it would be better to go from that point of view than Mr Paatero's proposal to remove them in order to have immediate competitiveness for our export industry when we are able to calculate costs in this respect. The ports of the Bothnian Sea pay 1.72 times the amount of these fairway charges in relation to their feedback, which will then, in view of the ice conditions in other ports, keep the routes open. As far as we are concerned, almost all large vessels always have to pay 100 %, and that is a very big burden for our big export industry, namely metallurgy, where raw materials are imported from abroad, it would certainly make this situation fairer, but halving is a good thing. But it should now also be targeted so that the competitiveness of the energy-intensive industry, which in fact all products are re-exporting, can be further improved in this respect. But thank you for the good initiative and for the fact that this debate must take place between the opposition and the government. Let us hope that the government parties are genuinely considering this bill as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u387	Mr President! This is therefore the case with Mr Paatero's bill to abolish the fairway fee. After all, during the last period that law on fairway charges was amended to halve the fairway fee, and that halve was defined for the years 2015 to 2017. This was part of the compensation of the sulphur directive and the labour market solution that wanted to support the Finnish export industry and reduce its export transport costs. It is true that this fairway charge is a burden on the Finnish export industry and also, of course, on our imports, because we are a water trip away from these transports to the greatest extent. In the last period, when this fairway half was made, the allocation of this fairway fee was also made more precise, and it has been targeted in such a way as to place a reduction on cargo ships and the best categories of ice transport, i.e. those ships that do not necessarily need icebreaking assistance. In my opinion, it was the right solution, i.e. not to impose a burden on those who have the ability to go on ice. This is because the main route charge has financed our icebreaking costs. In his presentation, which was quite commendable and expert, Mr Paatero pointed out the problem that, at the moment, the competitiveness of ports in the Eastern Gulf of Finland, for example, is deteriorating and has deteriorated considerably compared to those in Russia. The port of Ust-Luga, among other things, has now operated its transit traffic through Hamina-Kotka and has considerably reduced its transit traffic in our ports. But this development has been absolutely inevitable: these major Russian port projects will be completed, and they have been done precisely with a view to reducing transit traffic through Finland. From that point of view, the abolition of the fairway charge will not bring back this transit traffic. This is not an aid to it; it is a wider issue, and it is not the crucial cost to recover that transit traffic. Even then, a great deal has been raised here today in various speeches about the alternative budget for the SDP and the responsible economic view that the SDP representatives have highlighted here in their own speeches. The levy will raise EUR 44800000 next year to cover the costs of icebreaking, and when all of this was — now halved — it amounted to around EUR 90 million. Of course, when a responsible economic party takes initiatives to abolish this kind of payment, it might be reasonable that it would also show how it is paid out. Or are we taking on more debt to cover the cost of icebreaking? On the other hand, I believe that the fairway charging system is such that one way or another it should be removed in a country such as Finland. But in this economic situation, every euro in that state's treasury, and especially in that necessary cost of icebreaking, is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u388	Mr President! Otherwise, so worthy and so good was the end of the argument that the devil of politics was still being twisted into this. This was a bill by Mr Paatero, who I felt was worthy of and presented the challenge of really having to look at this issue in the government and in the whole parliament, which is the importance and potential of the Finnish export industry in this country to produce well-being so that these services, which are important to us, can continue to be paid for. In that sense, I have heard that Mr Paatero has also made a budget initiative in this regard. I cannot find it here in the Socialist alternative budget, so I would now like to distinguish between these two things. This is not where I am going specifically to stand on the side of the Social Democrats when there are none of them in this Chamber, but I am taking the side of Mr Paatero here in the sense that a good initiative is being taken. I also think that this whole system should now be considered in terms of the view that if we are not yet able to get rid of the whole thing, then this should also be seen and looked at on an industry-by-industry basis. Perhaps in the future we should have the courage to look at what kind of port network we have, because even now we have port units capable of managing the entire export and import capacity, which means that we have such concentrations. In that sense, it must be said that, when we have Pori Mäntyluoto, the deep port, which, under the conditions of ice, is an overwhelming one, we will insist that this debate takes place in economic terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u389	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u390	Mr President! This bill has been modified by the experience of practical legal life. I haven't done it by force. Now that this supplementary budget debate, of course, has had a lot of worrying talk about the fact that our debt share is already rising from GDP to more than 60 per cent, which is also one of these EU countries' borders, that the country should be more closely monitored by the Commission, I personally think it is a good line that when some legislative initiatives are taken, then they will be made from the point of view of increasing savings, and that is exactly what this initiative is. Furthermore, now that the migration crisis is under way, changes are needed in immigration policy. These must be done on three fronts: 1) border and security policy; 2) labour and social policy; 3) expulsion and return policy. My proposal therefore relates to this third point and, legally speaking, it is a two-tier proposal: First of all, it makes the expulsion of a foreigner a really strong starting point, I could say automation, if a foreigner is sentenced to two years or more imprisonment. The second level here is such a procedural level that this expulsion will be added to the penalty. Today, expulsion is the consequence of rather this kind of administrative. On the basis of the crime of this expulsion, at least I personally think more of this type of punishment. It is certainly more severe for many exiled foreigners to be deported than to spend a year in a Finnish prison, for example. My proposal is that a foreigner who is sentenced to at least two years' imprisonment should be turned, deported and suspended for the time being, unless there are particularly serious objections. It is proposed to add this to the Criminal Code. Today, therefore, expulsion is governed by the foreign law and is in favour of the administrative process. This two-year limit is based on the fact that if a person commits an act for which he is sentenced to at least two years in prison, it can be considered that this person, this foreigner, no longer has the social confidence that he should be allowed to reside in Finland. With regard to this bill, many have asked whether it will then be deported before this prison sentence is served. It is not banished, but first it follows that the prison sentence and expulsion take place directly after the prisoner has been released from prison. I would also like to say that this expulsion can therefore also take place in the case of sentences of less than two years, if it is considered appropriate. In this procedural part, I would like to emphasise that this bill would bring in precisely substantial savings for the police, the Immigration Service and the judiciary. The detailed explanatory memorandum to the bill explains how the system operates today and what change is being proposed here. This would also lead to a significant improvement in the legal protection of foreigners. As far as country comparisons are concerned, there is already a similar system in several European countries, and this will also allow us, in the long term, to harmonise the approach of the General Court and the Administrative Court in the field of expulsion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u391	Mr President! This bill proposes that a foreigner who is sentenced to two years in prison or longer for a serious crime be automatically ordered to be turned or deported. At the same time, he would be flogged by an entry ban that is valid for an indefinite period. The four-step process should be turned into a one-step process in serious crimes. It would speed up decisions and create significant savings. It must also be said that our prisons are already cramped and their operation is also hampered by the plight of our economy. On the basis of all the above, I support Mr Tavio's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u392	Mr President! A legislative amendment in the referral debate would enable a foreigner to be sentenced in Finland to be removed or expelled from the country and to be banned from the country for an indefinite period. A condition for the application of the law would be to sentence a foreigner to at least two years in prison. Refusal or expulsion could be ruled out only for a particularly heavy reason. At present, we need no fewer than four different authorities: the district court, the police, the immigration office and administrative rights in the appeal procedure. Four different authorities deal with and resolve an issue that could be resolved in a more flexible and flexible way in one place and at the same time after reading the judgment. The Government Programme talks about simplifying and speeding up the various authorities’ activities. The simpler we manage to adjust our various authorities, the faster the operations will be. Time is also money in government activities and dealing with matters. It is obvious that the one-to-one decision is always cheaper for society than the four different authorities involved in the decision-making chain. Due to the very tight economic situation, the government is forced to make painful cuts in almost all sectors of society. We cut and save for the interests and services of our own citizens. That is why it is very strange that those who have entered the country and who have committed a wrongful act are provided with services according to a very long formula. The Finnish judicial system is well known for its good decision-making culture, so even after the reform of the law, no one would be able to accuse us of failing to provide proper legal protection for the defendant. Mr President! I am in favour of Mr Tavio's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u393	Mr President! There is a bill on the amendment of the penal code and it is intended — this representative, Mr Tavio’s initiative, to impose a ban on the expulsion and entry of foreigners who have committed serious crimes in the course of criminal proceedings. The bill also includes that if a foreigner is sentenced to two years in prison or longer, he or she would be automatically ordered to be repatriated or deported, as well as to an entry ban valid for an indefinite period. Refusal or expulsion could be ruled out only for a particularly heavy reason. And as was heard here in Mr Tavio's own presentation, this expulsion and expulsion would take effect after the penalty for that crime had been paid. This bill must be supported in order to simplify and speed up this process, which is currently being carried out by several different authorities in several different courts. Then, this text of the bill's introduction takes the view that this refusal, expulsion and refusal of entry should be an additional penalty rather than an administrative penalty. This is what I will stop for a moment, because when I was a member of the Constitutional Committee in 2013, this ban on double criminality, i.e. the ne bis in idem rule, was a long and thorough one. It was then a concrete matter for the government's proposal on tax or customs increases and related laws, but in practice it also set out the principle of ne bis in idem, the national interpretation of double punishment. Twice punishment for the same act is prohibited, among other things, by the European Convention on Human Rights. In accordance with Article 4, no one may, under the jurisdiction of the same State, be re-examined or punished in criminal proceedings for an offence for which he has already been definitively released or convicted in accordance with the laws and procedures of that State. The more precise content of the ban on double criminality has been defined or highlighted in the European Court of Human Rights' penal practices. It has been considered that the scope of the ban is not limited to judgments requiring criminal sanctions but also extends to various types of administrative sanctions. This is the idea of this bill that expulsion from that country should no longer be treated as an administrative sanction, but as an additional criminal penalty, I can support it, because that would rule out the possibility of using this ban on double criminality in these cases. In other words, when a criminal offence is first convicted and then an administrative penalty is applied for for expulsion, it could be avoided by this ne bis in idem provision, on the basis of which it is based. That is why I am very much in favour of this initiative by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u394	Mr President! I want to thank you, Congressman. From this point of view, the ne bis in idem ban on double criminality. This is just one of the factors involved, which would therefore increase the legal protection of this person who is being expelled. Another point which might be useful to raise here is that, as I recall in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, when it is also necessary to have this oral hearing and it has been considered that it should be received, however, in matters of importance, so today, in the Finnish administrative court, this process of expulsion does not in practice bring about this oral procedure. So this in itself would also be better for the legal protection of this expelled person if it were dealt with in a district court, which has a face-to-face with the judge and receives an oral hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u395	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u396	Mr President! I was given the impetus to take this bill when, in early autumn, a citizens' initiative was discussed here in Parliament that wanted to tighten the penalty scale for sexual crimes against children. We had a good debate here at the time, and there were no gravel sounds in the Chamber to say that this should not be done. However, in that debate there was a concern about the victims, which is often the case, and many times it is time for that prosecution to expire, in accordance with current law, when the victim reaches the age of 28 years, and certainly these gross and shocking crimes that violate human life are not allowed to be brought to justice. During the evening when I was sitting in my own office at the end of that conversation, I received a couple of telephone calls, where women were very touchingly telling of the tragic events that had occurred in their lives. Similarly, I received e - mails that brought these things up. Many times they showed how bad it was when these things were in their own lives during the age of adulthood, when a person’s life begins to be built up and are in those big years of life, wanting to forget and bury and want to look forward to life as well as it had been possible in those life situations, and perhaps only at the time when his own children were born, and perhaps at the time when his own children were of the age of sexual abuse, all these things from his own history came back to mind, but then it was often the case that it was too late to do anything about it. There were also situations in which one had to sit by and watch how the person who committed these acts lived a life on the stage and never could confess or even apologize — as one of the callers said, not even in this case, but even if he had apologized. In any event, it is proposed that the statute of limitations in criminal law be reformed in such a way that that right of prosecution expires only after the victim has reached the age of 38, that is to say, it would be added ten years in the event of serious sexual abuse of the child. In 2005: for the first time there was an improvement in this law, which was then raised to that very 28 years, but this is precisely the reason why the biggest problem is the serious sexual crimes against the smallest children and their excessive limitation period. As I described here, that mental separation and independence from one’s parents usually take place only at the age of thirty, and the same time typically coincides with the setting up of that own family today, and perhaps that’s why these things only come to the surface at that point. Of course, despite legislation, there are those things in people’s history that may be — for example, relative — that prevent these things from being brought up. In that sense, too, I know that this bill will not improve these matters in all its aspects, but it will still enable those people who also wish to seek legal redress for what has happened. It makes it possible, and the statute of limitations of these prosecutions would not be so quickly hindered. Of course, it has been criticised that, when these limitation periods are extended, it would give false hope if it is difficult to prove these crimes. But there are indeed cases when various large sexual criminal associations have been exposed and these evidences could then be obtained through testimony and recordings. I therefore hope that this will come before us at the same time as that citizens' initiative in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I wish it every success there. In the debate that has taken place here, a great many Members have said that they would still have liked this limitation period to have been included in this citizens' initiative, and that is how it will now be possible to remedy this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u397	Mr President! At this point in the evening, I would like to thank the President for his long-standing attitude — a lot of things have been going on here, and the speeches are still going on. This representative, Ms Essayah, is a bill for the purposes of Chapter 8, Section 1 and Section 6 of the Criminal Code. This is why I also wanted to stay on this issue and take a stand on it. Currently, the prosecutions of serious sexual offences expire in 20 years and at the earliest when the victim reaches the age of 28 in the case of such abuse, aggravated rape or forced sexual intercourse. These sexual crimes against children are among the most serious crimes. With almost 25 years of police experience, I have had to deal with these situations and with the victims and, on that basis, I consider these crimes to be the most outrageous of all crimes. Sexual abuse leaves a mark on the victim, and, as I said, it is like a murder from which the victim survives. The consequences of its action may continue to follow for the rest of its life, may cause disturbances in mental development, sexual development and trust in the opposite sex. These things can come from decades after these acts have taken place. That is why this Essayah bill is very important, and I support this extension of the statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u398	Mr President! Mr Essayah and the Christian Democrats have a good initiative. I believe that this initiative will give due consideration to the Legal Committee and, of course, to Parliament as a whole. However, I do not believe that the current limitation period in Finland, that is to say the 28-year limit, is different in the international comparison. What I quickly found about that is that in Oregon, U.S.A., the age period is 30 years, that is, until the victim reaches the age of 30, and that is almost the same as in Finland. I got the impression from my source that this age period is even longer in the United States. However, I also found that in the legal systems of some countries there is no limitation period at all for civil action, which means that the victim can claim compensation for damages. In Finland, however, according to the Compensation Act, this period of compensation for criminal damage expires in its criminal time. That aging period in itself has been justified quite a lot in criminal law by the fact that over time this kind of settlement of the social need of this kind would be reduced. But as far as the gross sexual abuse of a child is concerned, I do not think that such an argument is in any way valid. So there is no price to be paid for the exercise of justice, so I think that this proposal is quite justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-26-ps-71.u399	For table setting, the 16th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 27 November 2015.
