ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-19-ps-5.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-19-ps-5.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the section of the Aliens Act, which provides for the conditions for granting a residence permit, such as the fact that endangerment of public health does not prevent the granting of a permit extension. Last week we discussed here the report of the Finnish delegation to the Council of Europe in 2014, and the delegation's report mentioned this issue as follows: "Hiv positive migrants experience multiple discrimination compared to others, and in this respect they are even denied entry. Resolution 1997 Mr President! I understand that this government proposal is now in a way correcting this aspect, because we are not talking about this issue of granting a residence permit, but about these obstacles to granting a permit extension. Mr President! I do not think that the proposal made by the previous government on this issue is good, because this is what we are opening up the possibility of coming to Finland in the future, including in the case of the paperless, to receive health services that will be very expensive for our society. Personally, I do not understand the policy of knowingly taking the risks of granting further authorisation to people with serious public health illnesses. We can't afford an experiment like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-19-ps-5.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-19-ps-5.u4	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-05-19-ps-5.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
