ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 26 November 2015. The amendments are now being discussed. I would ask you to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u2	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u3	Mr President! I support Mr Laukkanen's excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u4	Antero Laukkanen, supported by Peter Östman, has proposed that the tax table annexed to the Act be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 7/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 26 November 2015. In the general debate, Katja Hänninen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, proposed that the draft law contained in the citizens' initiative be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u6	Anyone who agrees with the committee's proposal to reject the bill will vote 'yes'; if 'no' wins, it is Katja Hänninen's proposal which has been accepted as the basis for the debate. At the same time, the adoption of the basic proposal means that Parliament will adopt Article 50 as a citizen's initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u7	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee, TrVM 5/2015 vp. The matter is presented by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u8	Mr President! During this autumn, the Audit Committee has gone through the Board's Annual Report for 2014 very carefully and also the Central Government Audit Office's Special Report on the Government's Financial Statements and Annual Report for 2014. In this context, it should be noted that this does not apply to the review and evaluation of the activities of the current government, but to those of the previous government, and indeed the previous two. First of all, a few words on this annual report in general and then on three major issues which the committee has dealt with and on which it has also put forward proposals for positions. These are the grey economy, then the information systems of the public sector and problems with moisture and mould. First of all, on this annual report: Parliament's obligation to the Government has obliged it to develop an annual report in order to be more informative, to tell its reader more about what has actually happened and to focus on the essentials. Accordingly, development has taken place, but the information package is still quite extensive, and it is very difficult to assess in some places what has been the objectives and how this implementation is in relation to the objectives set. The annual report consists of four parts. It contains an annual report and then three annexes. The total number of pages is 652, so it is also challenging for a Member of Parliament if he is to get an overview of this annual report. One annex reports statements of particular importance to Parliament, which are therefore earlier statements by Parliament. Now that they are in the annex, there is, of course, the risk that this Parliament's will will will will be left aside to some extent. The reporting method is also cumbersome in itself and the effort required by it is quite high. The Audit Committee has stated that it would be better to aim for the topicality and usefulness of the information content rather than the apparent coverage of this kind in the decision-making process of the Parliament. This would be served by a simultaneous review of the measures and objectives chosen, including the use of indicators and the indicators used when assessing the success and effectiveness of government policy. The committee has explicitly emphasised this efficiency, effectiveness and the need for the government to provide better information on this. The experts in the consultation stressed the importance of the use of research data, and here we still have much to learn in relation to the most advanced administrations in this area, including the United Kingdom. Therefore, the careful use of scientific and research data and its organisation in the Government's work are of particular importance. The committee therefore proposes to Parliament that Parliament make a statement on this, stating that there has been a positive development, but that it should be continued, that the material should be more reader-friendly and informative, and that particular attention should be paid to this particular effectiveness and effectiveness. Then we'll fight the black economy. After all, in this area, the first audit committee in 2007 did a very groundbreaking and useful job going through this whole grey economy and assessing its scope and also making a very careful and detailed proposal on what should be done in this area. This report by the Audit Committee and its draft measures were the basis for the work of the Board of Directors of Katainen in 2011, and these proposals, the committee's proposals, almost all of them ended up in this programme of the Board of Directors of Katainen. Since 96, the Government has adopted six action programmes to combat economic crime and the shadow economy. After an expert consultation, the committee concluded that this tradition should be continued and made its own statement on this, and Mr Stubb, the finance minister, also heard. After consultation with the committee, we were able to say that the government had taken a decision in this direction, that is to say, contrary to the thinking of the early autumn, the government will continue a separate programme of action for the shadow economy, while at the same time seeking to incorporate more permanent changes to the permanent practice of the authorities in the control programme. A careful, accurate assessment of the impact of all these measures, including the use of translated VAT on buildings and some other very concrete measures of this kind, has not been achieved. It is known, however, that tax revenues have increased for a couple of years, that tax accounts have increased despite the increase in unemployment, so this big indicator of the increase in tax revenues, even as unemployment increases, suggests that this has had a significant income impact of hundreds of millions of euros. However, the committee would argue that this evaluation of the results of the programme to combat the shadow economy should be more focused and looked more carefully at what the various decisions taken have contributed to in terms of tax revenue. Separately it was found that the problem is the flow of information. There is a lot of information, but there is a lack of mutual information from the authorities and a lack of information from the tax authorities. As a result, the committee proposes that Parliament make a statement obliging the Government to report to Parliament by the end of 2016 on the measures taken by the government specifically to develop the exchange of information between authorities in the fight against the shadow economy, but also more generally. In the past, during the previous Parliament, Mr Zyskowicz, among others, has repeatedly drawn attention to this problem that information does not pass between different authorities and also has a negative impact on the legal protection of citizens and the fight against crime, so that this statement would be broader in nature than the fight against the black economy alone. Then the public sector information systems. This is an area where we know that there really is huge potential for savings, but there is also enormous scope for spending money in vain. Our history in this regard is not quite crystal clear and positive. We know that the first government of Vanhanen has already made this idea of the information society subject to a separate programme. However, its results were very modest. In 2008, Parliament required the government to take measures to ensure the interoperability of public administration and, first and foremost, health information systems and common interfaces for the seamless exchange of information between information systems. We know that the results in this area are very incomplete and, of course, they will be a major issue for future social welfare reform. According to the information provided by the ict project portfolio maintained by the Ministry of Finance, the total value of state administration's ict projects is approximately EUR 1 billion, and not all projects are involved. As a result, the committee considers it justified that in future the annual report, instead of the various activities and project descriptions, should report on genuine results, the benefits achieved and their impact. After all, there is a risk that costs will soon come, not to decrease, but to increase, and yet this genuine compatibility and exchange of information will not be achieved. Then there's the problem of moisture and mold in buildings. This was the subject of a very thorough report by the previous Audit Committee in May 2013. It was based on a separate study and extensive treatment. Parliament adopted a statement containing a total of 14 specific measures. The current committee went through all of these and had to conclude that there has been some progress and a certain change of attitude, but unfortunately a large part of them, the majority of them, at least to some extent, are still up-to-date. That is why the committee's line is that these parliamentary statements should largely be maintained in order to continue to monitor the concrete results achieved in eliminating moisture and mould problems. We are aware that this is a billion-dollar issue: we have schools, day-care centres, libraries, public buildings where this is a problem, and then, of course, this is also visible on the side of housing and the everyday life of citizens. The committee also proposes a new position: "The Committee requires that the government take due account of the previous parliamentary statements and statements on other issues contained in both this report and the opinions of the specialised committees and the large committee attached thereto." Of these, the specialised committees have done their own work. That's a very big job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u9	Madam President! This is the third time that the Government's annual report has been submitted to Parliament as a report in accordance with the Constitution. The aim of the Audit Committee has been to make use of the report and the contribution to the whole dossier in the preparation of the budget for the following year. For example, an assessment of the state of public finances and the performance of administrative sectors or intersectoral activities and the achievement of the objectives of the Government Programme will be made possible by the report currently under discussion. Mr President! On the other hand, given the importance of the matter, the emphasis is also on further development of the annual report. Better consideration of the reader’s point of view is essential. The story should be such that it is interesting to read. It should also show where the objectives have not been met. More generally, this is an important issue: understanding the importance of timetable planning, cooperation and anticipation between Parliament and the Government. In the course of the committee's deliberations, the committee has put forward proposals for positions on these issues. There has also been a lot of discussion about the statements that are being made in this House, and it is good that we are following them and remembering what kind of statements we are making here. In order to bring them forward too, and if you feel they are being forgotten, it is good to remind you of them, because there are very important statements to take forward, as still remains after the Committee on Audit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u10	Madam President! Just as the chairman of the committee said, the reform of the social and health sector would require the state to coordinate those interfaces quickly enough so that social and health areas and those working on that side can use the same data, laboratory and other X-ray images. It is a key element in achieving the desired savings. If this is not done in time, this alignment will take five to ten years. At this stage, it would actually be the first thing the state should take responsibility for coordinating.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u11	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u12	Madam President! I have been rereading this government report and cannot help but notice how quickly this world is changing. This annual report does describe the situation in Ukraine and Russia, but last year it was not really known what, for example, the activities of Syria and Iraq and Daesh in these areas will have an impact all the way to Finland. In fact, the only thing we are talking about in the foreign policy section is how we have increased the need for air traffic control, and now we have increased the budget so that not all the appropriations from the Defence Forces, the Air Force, go to these surveillance flights but can also be kept to the training. At the moment, the debate is already taking place on quite different issues, as was the case yesterday with the supplementary draft budget, with the fact that we have to devote EUR 500 million more to this management of the refugee situation, and it seems that there is still more and more worrying news. We should be prepared to ensure that we do not have a sense of internal security. It requires more police resources, but also a proper debate, but there must also be room for a critical debate in this changed situation. The number of messages is huge, and more and more people are getting those worrying messages from all over Finland that you need to intervene, also guarantee us the safe everyday life. I myself would argue that the number of policemen should be increased and the budget should be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u13	Madam President! I am a proud alternate member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I therefore thought I would come here to pay tribute to this report until the podium. There are very important themes here, which Mr Heinäluoma presented in relation to information systems, problems with moisture and mould and the grey economy. In fact, on this grey economy I would like to start with the fact that there has also been a great deal of debate in this Parliament throughout the autumn. Of course, the great concern we had in the opposition was that it seemed that the government was really cancelling the rear-view mirror with regard to the fight against this grey economy, and the cuts in appropriations were very much on the table. And it was good to see that once again Parliament has been able to influence this issue. It was very noteworthy that the committee has had the power to do this, that is to say, as the President-in-Office described, immediately after the ministerial hearing, we heard the happy, important, very good news that the government is cancelling some of these cuts. This is important news and, of course, one can ask once again why they originally wanted to cut this money because it is so important money — everyone understands that it has a significant multiplier effect on the economy. I would say that there is still more room for investment in the black economy than there is for these cuts to be dismantled, but there is room for the budget there. For example, as Social Democrats, we are investing very strongly in the fight against the shadow economy in our own alternative budget. We have a concrete programme to combat the shadow economy with concrete measures. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, nonsense, it is iron goods in that, for example, Mr Heinäluoma has just told us that it can be seen that the programme to combat the shadow economy of the previous period has generated significant increases in tax revenues at a time when unemployment is high. So I think this is a very good illustration of how important it is for the investment in the black economy to pay itself back in many ways. As the committee points out in this report, it is certainly necessary to look further at the real effects of the fight against it, because I believe that there will be results which will prove that by investing in the black economy we can bring a great deal more tax revenue to the state. My second point, Mr President, is this problem of moisture and mold. This is very important and, over the last period, many times I admired the report by the previous Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and the concrete proposals for measures contained in it to combat this problem of moisture and mould. After all, they were very comprehensive among the various ministries and, for example, on many points required that the different ministries coordinate and move forward with each other. It is very good that this is still strongly on the agenda, because this is such a goal that this should not give up. Schools, daycare centres are about jobs for children, you can say. For example, I have had a lot of school visits, and it has been rather sad that children may have said that there is a bit of bad weather here, that it is a little bad to breathe or that way. It's something that needs to be fixed. We've got to fix it. For example, in our alternative budget, we are providing significant resources for the renovation of these home schools and day care centres and also libraries. We have a $100 million investment package there. From this point of view, too, we want to promote this important objective in particular. The same applies, of course, to the housing side: yes, it is very important that today we should be able to build in such a way that these moisture and mold damage should not occur, because they are human tragedies when you hear the stories of many families about what has actually happened when the home that you bought in good faith can then be mold damaged. There are also a lot of health issues and everything else. If we are able to prevent mold problems, then of course, and naturally, the economy will be better off as health costs fall. All in all, I see this significance when I grow up. In this context, I wish I could thank the previous Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy once again for the excellent, comprehensive report they had on this issue. With these words, Mr President. This is a good report and there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u14	Madam President! I agree with Mrs Viitane on a number of points, and it was very gratifying that there was indeed money in the financial investigations. This is what the government parties, for example, pointed out in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, of which I myself am a member, so we understood it perfectly well. However, one thing I am concerned about, and I hope it will be considered, is that as early as this year I have heard that these economic investigators have been forced to move to Tornio to solve the problem of immigration. We must ensure in future that we get this immigration under control, because it is probably not the intention that the funds allocated to combating the shadow economy will then be transferred to other activities, which will then be out of the picture of what it is trying to achieve and, of course, the obstacle it is pursuing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u15	Mr President! It is true that the previous government managed to achieve, among other things, in 2014, one might say, the cheetah leaps in this fight against the grey economy. This government will now enjoy them. The situation is that while the economy is lying, tax revenues from the construction industry are constantly increasing. It shows that the work that was done in the last period has progressed. Well, now that this government first decided to put an end to the programme to combat the shadow economy, and now that, under opposition pressure, it has decided to continue, we must remember that the situation has not gone any further since last season. First we went back and now we're back to square one. The SDP has presented a programme in paragraph 23 to combat the shadow economy. If this happens next year, tax revenues will increase by EUR 200 million, more in the coming years. So I ask: are the Finns of Peru ready to carry out criminalisation, for example, of the payment of underpaid wages? It would bring more revenue to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u16	Mr President! Often, when an additional budget is presented for a good purpose, the authors assert that, in fact, when it is invested in it, there will ultimately be more revenue for the State or, at least in the long term, costs will be reduced. These ideas are often time, if I may say, on thin ice, but in the case of the grey economy, I personally believe that when it is invested in it and, of course, not just resources, the rules of the game will also be changed, so it will actually increase the revenue for the state, for the taxpayer. Indeed, the previous government, as has been said here, did a lot of good work in this regard. Little carelessly, of course, these alternative budgets suggest what kind of income would be made with what amount, but now that this EUR 6.4 million was added, which the government first proposed to remove, we have this kind of experimental laboratory. The Greens have calculated that it will generate EUR 50 million more revenue. Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u17	Mr President! I am delighted that Ben Zyskowicz in the first part really acknowledged that more tax revenue can be obtained by investing in financial investigations. For example, it is estimated that this 6.6 million, over 80 financial investigators who would have had to quit their jobs right after January, have produced tens of millions of euros. But I would like to draw attention to the point when Mr Zyskowicz said that an alternative budget would have carefully presented tax returns estimates. Indeed, the SDP's estimate of this additional revenue of EUR 200 million for the grey economy, which is, therefore, one third of what the centre put forward last season, is based not only on this EUR 20 million of the additional resources that have been put forward there, but on this 23-point programme, a large part of which has a zero cost impact. If they were implemented by the government, we'd get extra income. Congressman Zyskowicz, are you in favour of criminalising the payment of underpaid wages? It would increase tax revenues for the state as more work would be covered by visible controls and tax revenues. Do you support it? If you're in favour, it'll bring you more income.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u18	For table setting, item 6 of the agenda will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u19	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u20	The 8th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u21	The 9th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u22	The 10th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-27-ps-72.u23	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 1 December 2015.
