ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mika Kari requests exemption from the Board of Directors of Yleisradio Oy. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Now the decision is made to Paavo Arhinmäki et al. on the question of transparency and regularity in the drafting of legislation led by the Minister of Finance and the transmission of the right information to Parliament. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 15 December 2016. In the debate, Mr Arhinmäki, supported by Mr Markus Mustajärvi, supported by Mr Haavisto Touko Aalto and supported by Mr Räsänen Mika Kari, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to the representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u3	First, we will vote against the proposal by Paavo Arhinmäki, then against the proposal by Mr Räsänen, then against the proposal by Pekka Haavisto, and finally on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u4	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 23.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u5	Mrs Henriksson's proposal 1 and Mr Östman's proposal 2 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u6	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u7	Mr Uotila's proposal 3 and Mr Viitanen's proposal 4 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u8	Mrs Henriksson's proposal 6 and Mrs Viitanen's proposal 7 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u9	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 26.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u10	May Aalto's proposal 2, Peter Östman's proposal 3, Kari Uotila's proposal 4 and Pia Viitanen's proposal 5 concern the same appropriation. The first is to vote against proposal 5 against proposal 4, then against proposal 3 that has won, then against proposal 2 that has won, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u11	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 27.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u12	Pia Viitanen's proposal 5 and May Aalto's proposal 6 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote between them, then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u13	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 28.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u14	Mr Uotila's proposal 2 and Mr Östman's proposal 5 relate to the same appropriation. First, the vote will take place on the proposal for 5 against 2 and on the report which has now been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u15	Pia Viitanen's proposal 3 and Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 4 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against proposal 4 against proposal 3 and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u16	Mr Östman's proposal 6 and Mr Uotila's proposal 7 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 7 proposals 6 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u17	Pia Viitanen's proposal 8 and Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 9 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against the 9 proposals and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u18	Madam Speaker! Did it happen that number 10 missed the vote?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u19	Yes, it did, and now we're going back to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u20	Mr President! In paragraph 15 I voted 'yes', the intention was 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u21	Madam Speaker! In paragraph 17, I intended to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u22	Mr President! In paragraph 3, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u23	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u24	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 15 December 2015. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u25	Riitta Myller's proposal 14 and Matti Sem's proposal 41 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 14 proposals 41 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u26	The idea was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u27	The idea was to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u28	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u29	The idea was to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u30	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u31	Satu Taavitsainen's proposal 36 and Matti Sem's proposal 37 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 37 against 36 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u32	Peter Östman's proposal 56, Anna-Maja Henriksson's proposal 57, May Aalto's proposal 58, Pia Viitanen's proposal 59 and Kari Uotila's proposal 60 relate to the same appropriation. Firstly, we will vote against 60 proposals 59, then against 58, then against 57, then against 56, then against 56, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u33	Mr President! The intention was to vote 'no' in paragraph 35.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u34	Mr President! In paragraph 55, I intended to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u35	Mr President! Paragraph 55 was meant to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u36	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u37	Mr President! Sorry. At vote 21, I stood up and corrected my correct vote incorrectly, so I shall return to the original vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u38	Thank you for the clarification. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u39	The budget proposal for next year will now be continued and section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs will be presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u40	Madam President! Some EUR 230 million is proposed for the operational expenditure of the External Service, of which more than half is to be allocated to the operational expenditure of the Delegation Network. The committee considers that Finland is very important for its own network of representations. The international environment is heavily changing, which has a significant impact on the management of foreign and security policy. A flexible and appropriate foreign service is key to ensuring Finland’s external relations. The committee also stresses the importance of promoting trade policy interests. Economic external relations must be able to focus on the promotion of exports, in particular the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the acquisition of investments in Finland, in accordance with the Government’s basis. In recent years, there have been painful cuts in the representation network, including the closure of delegations. In 2016, cost-effectiveness will be pursued by reforming and concentrating operations. The committee considers it necessary to assess the development needs of the network of delegations and to try to find new cost-effective ways of working. As a result of repeated spending cuts, the means of saving in current operating models are beginning to be exhausted. The committee notes that the proposed allocation is limited. This scarcity is compounded by the fact that the change in the international environment raises security and security related costs. In view of the current state of the economy, the Committee therefore considers it necessary to stress that, when assessing the structure of the network of representations, the appropriateness of the presence must also be related to the costs and security risks involved. The committee also draws attention to the need to control uncontrolled immigration. The Foreign Affairs Administration plays a key role in informing and targeting information on the criteria for access to asylum so that the number of persons seeking asylum can be reduced without justification. The committee will add EUR 230000 to information activities related to immigration. Mr President! That's some kind of development cooperation. Central government development expenditure is estimated to total approximately EUR 800 million in 2016. According to the latest estimate, this represents around 0.38% of GDP. As part of fiscal adjustment measures, it is proposed to cut the total budget for development cooperation by around EUR 200 million. A total of around EUR 500 million is proposed for the actual item in development cooperation. The largest euro-denominated cuts are directed towards multi-centre cooperation. The cuts proposed for country and regional development cooperation are also large. The committee notes that the humanitarian situation in the world is exceptionally bad. The resolution of the refugee crisis, among other things, calls for investment in refugee camps in crisis areas and neighbouring areas. In relation to the whole, there is a small cut in Finland's humanitarian aid, and its relative share in our development cooperation budget is increasing. The committee pays particular attention to the support of NGOs for development cooperation. It is proposed to amount to EUR 65 million, which is EUR 49 million less than in 2015. NGOs do important work and they also employ hundreds of people. It is regrettable that, as a result of sudden cuts in appropriations, NGOs will have to adapt rapidly. The Committee considers it important that the Ministry examines the possibilities of increasing the support of non-governmental organisations for internal transfers. The expertise of NGOs should also be used, where possible, in project preparation and other development cooperation. The Committee stresses that, as development aid appropriations fall, the work they do must be even more effective. There is also a need to further develop the measurement of labour performance and to maintain zero tolerance for abuse. Mr President! Just a few more words on financial investments in development cooperation: an appropriation of EUR 140 million is proposed for this article, of which EUR 130 million is to be spent on Finnfund's financial investments. Financial investments are not included in the central government financial framework. Finnfund is a Finnish state-owned development fund whose aim is to reduce poverty. It finances investment by companies in developing countries. The State has invested approximately EUR 165 million in Finnfund. Capital has increased to more than EUR 250 million invested in new development-related projects. The committee considers that Finnfund's capital increase is justified. The most sustainable way to eradicate poverty is to create jobs and economic growth. With the actual reduction in development funding, the Committee considers it important that Finnfund's projects also make use, where possible, of the expertise of non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u41	Now, Minister Soini, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u42	Madam President! Finland’s international environment is undergoing a major change, and the security policy situation in Europe is tense. Foreign and security policy must also be particularly well prepared for possible changes. The aim is to strengthen our international position, secure Finland’s independence and territorial integrity, and improve the safety and well-being of Finns. The aim is to strengthen security in the neighbouring regions, in Europe and in wider international cooperation. Economic external relations, sustainable development and solutions to global challenges are needed to increase security and prosperity. According to the Government Programme, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been cut by EUR 201 million and the total budget for 2016 in the administrative sector is approximately EUR 1 billion. The biggest savings, with a net impact of EUR 200 million, are in actual development cooperation. Mr President! EUR 226 million is proposed for the operational expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration. As part of fiscal adjustment measures, operating expenditure will be reduced by a total of EUR 800000. More than half of the operational expenditure is to be allocated to the operational expenditure of the 88-point network. My aim is not to close delegations during this parliamentary term. It is important that we have Parliament's declared support to safeguard the functioning of the network of representations. Thank you for that. We will continue to step up our efforts, and the emphasis will be placed on those countries whose political and economic importance for Finland is increasing. The committee also stresses the importance of promoting trade policy interests. The aim is therefore to accelerate the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular and to attract investments to Finland. As part of the Government’s top project package, Team Finland network will also be strengthened by the temporary recruitment of specialist experts focusing on commercial economic issues at offices such as Los Angeles, New York, Ottawa, Istanbul, Tehran and Singapore. I am pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs fully supports the development of Team Finland. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue its work to improve the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, building on cooperation between authorities and the opportunities offered by Nordic and EU cooperation. I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for presenting to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an additional amount of EUR 230000 to improve information on immigration. In this respect, our efforts have been limited precisely by the lack of sufficient resources, including in the acquisition of knowledge of Arabic. Mr President! As representatives have noticed, Finland will continue its active participation in international crisis management. Geographical priorities are in Lebanon, Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo and Ukraine. The claims that the new government would reduce Finland's participation in military crisis management are not true. On the contrary, during the new government decisions have been taken to participate in UNIFIL in Lebanon, NATO Resolute Support in Afghanistan, EU Sophia in the Mediterranean and UN MINUSMA in Mali. In addition, we are currently preparing a response to requests for assistance from both France and the United States. Our response must consist of concrete actions to contribute to the fight against terrorism and Isil. Other possible follow-up measures include measures in Erbil in Northern Iraq, UNIFIL in Lebanon and MINUSMA in Mali. In addition to effectiveness, particular attention will be paid to the coordination of military and civilian crisis management and development cooperation and humanitarian aid and mediation. Attention will also be paid to crisis management as a tool to curb migration flows, including by stabilising conditions in countries of origin and transit, developing the rule of law and improving human rights. This is probably going to be a debate, and we can come back to that, but a few more comments. As part of the budget, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs harmonises the criteria for State aid appropriations used for communication, in particular with regard to European information. I have tried to harmonise the provisions relating to the allocation of appropriations in order to ensure equality between the various organisations. In the future, the funds allocated to European information by organisations can also be used for local expenditure. Finally, Arctic issues are also a very important part of Finland's foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u43	We now have the opportunity to have a debate on this subject. — Mr Kaikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u44	Mr President! The current parliamentary term has only been going on for months, but this foreign and security policy has had a great deal to do with it. We have had time to face the biggest refugee crisis of our time, mourn the victims of terrorist attacks near Europe and beyond, and recently adopted an extremely important climate agreement. There is war in the Middle East, among other things, and the situation in Ukraine is still tense. All this tells us how the foreign policy environment is in constant turmoil. The cuts in development cooperation are significant, large, undisputed, and it is a pity that the Committee on Budgets did not find a remedy. But it is time to consider how to make half-empty glass half-full. Despite these cuts, there is still quite a lot of development money, and the Government’s objective is to increase the effectiveness, effectiveness and measurableness of development cooperation. It is in everyone's interest that the limited resources should be allocated as effectively as possible. It is also valuable that the network of representations should continue. Hopefully, the Government will adhere to it and Finland will also continue to actively participate in crisis management. Finland has its place and its role in this world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u45	Mr President! There's been a lot of big stuff going on here lately. One is that France has called for solidarity for the EU's foreign and security policy, the United States also in the fight against ISIS. I ask the Minister: how important do you see the fact that Finland is showing solidarity in these matters now, because it can sometimes be important to us too, that we get help if we need it? Secondly, I do not understand at all the debate that has triggered in Finland that Finnfund is somehow weak to act in development cooperation. I have been on Finnfund's Board of Directors for many years, and I can say that it will certainly be a top priority for Finland's development cooperation. It is totally wrong to put the NGOs against Finnfundi, both of them doing valuable work. If non-governmental organisations have received too little money, they must be allocated that money elsewhere, and certainly not from Finnfund. And last but not least, Mr President, it is important that the Finnish diplomatic network be maintained. But there's someone. the small detail is that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u48	Mr President! It is good that the Committee on Budgets has reiterated the view that the network of delegations should not be reduced again. This is a broad common vision in this Chamber. But this too may still be questionable as to whether this will happen because these development cooperation cuts will also have an impact on the network of delegations, because they have also financed the costs of certain delegations. Let us hope that this is not the kind of actual surgery that will take place. Secondly, Mr Niikko said in his presentation that this additional funding for Finnfund would not be included in expenditure. Unfortunately, the situation is now that Statistics Finland, which is here as the decisive rapporteur, has stated that this is not the case, but that it is included in the spending limits. It now seems that the committee has based its report on false information, and this would in itself be the right procedure for it to be reinstated, so that this would also enable the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be taken on board on a certain balance and softening, above all
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u49	Mr President! I have to give an answer to these Finnfund cuts that in the development system financial investments are defined as outside the spending limits because they:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u52	Mr President! The international situation is indeed uncertain, and unfortunately we have too many conflicts and fragile countries, which will then also be reflected in the immigration crisis that is taking place in Europe. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance clearly states in its report that development cooperation funds can contribute to the causes of migration and also prevent the world refugee crisis. And from this point of view, too, I find it terribly difficult to understand why the Committee on Finance then ignored the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which we state that the Committee on Finance is proposing to the Committee on Finance that part of the planned capital increase for Finnfund should be directed towards alleviating the negative effects on NGOs. I think it would have been justified for the Committee of Finance to have given credit to the Committee of Experts, which unanimously, including Mr Salolainen, felt that part of Finnfund's capitalisation money could be used to alleviate the cuts in development cooperation organisations. So I would also like to hear the President-in-Office's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u53	Mr President! One comment, one question: My comment also applies to development funds. This is a considerable reduction from the level of 0.6 achieved by Finland to 0.35, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs tried to find a solution for the organisations. After all, there has been a great consensus in this Chamber that we all want to support them, and I am also disappointed that the Committee on Finance did not find the solution that the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposed. When the UN Secretary-General visited Ban Ki-moo in Finland, he also drew attention to the fact that, in this situation, humanitarian aid and development cooperation in that field should be stepped up so that the refugee crisis could be contained, this was not done. The second point is my question to Minister Soin. It has to do with these requests for help. Now that it seems trendy to make such coalitions — there is a French request for help, France was attacked, there is a United States request for help — I am a little concerned about whether now the UN and this kind of international community will be marginalized when there comes these individual requests for help. How do you see this, and is it politically distinctive then to jump from one request to another? Would it not be better to make UN arrangements for this assistance?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u54	Mr President! I support everything Mr Haavisto said, and I myself would have drawn attention to this multilateral cooperation and our support for the UN system. It is good for a small country to support multilateral cooperation, because there is, however, long-term work going on there. I understand that diplomacy talks about paying attention and special attention and improving and hoping for and objectives, but the reality is that if all the money and support from the ILO are taken away, then the fight against trafficking in human beings will be greatly weakened in the world, and that is what I am concerned about. I would also like to ask: is there a strategy for us to take forward these issues in terms of standards and commitments, for example, in a concrete way in Finland's international policy, such as the adoption of the UN Convention on Refugees and its protocols for Turkey, for example — President Niinistö chose not to raise them in Turkey — or, for example, the Palermo Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings or the Council of Europe's Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings, which is also open to others? Because there's no money,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u55	Madam President! The cuts in development cooperation are indeed drastic, as has been pointed out here in many speeches, and in particular the cuts in the budget of NGOs for development cooperation, as well as the cuts in humanitarian aid. And although the committee's representatives here said that we need more effectiveness, it is really difficult to increase it in cases where an NGO is forced to withdraw completely from these crisis countries, where it is precisely what is needed. It would be necessary to help there in the countries of origin and to prevent refugees and also these crises, and it would be extremely important to support these refugee camps also in those areas near the crisis areas. But the government has chosen a different line and, for example, the quota refugee registration of the Government Programme has prevented the most effective possible assistance from being made. We prefer to participate in these internal movements within Europe, and that is indeed the wrong signal for these human smugglers as well as for those fleeing from those regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u56	We now have so little time for this debate that Mr Soin will have two minutes at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u57	Mr President! Mr Salolainen's questions as to whether this is an important request from France and the United States: It is absolutely essential. Here is also a little response to Mr Haavisto. These are bilateral requests, and Finland has received requests and Finland will respond to them. But I do see the concern that Mr Haavisto has said here that the role of the UN in the multilateral world should not be underestimated, and in that respect it is worth looking at these issues in a comprehensive way. It will not work that way if there are more bilateral requests in half. But now, in a way, this EU aid clause is being discussed for the first time, and here we look at its experience, and then there are quite a lot of overlapping, cutting surfaces, for example, for the Erbil operation, both and so away. Then, of course, independence money: Yes, 2017 Finland’s 100th birthdays will be properly celebrated both in Finland and abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u62	Mr President! There has been talk here of peace-keeping activities — it will be 60 years old next year — and crisis management is now called, and that too is a sign of change. One year ago, the scale was that EUR 100 million was put into this activity and about 1000 crisis management women and men were then in different operations in the world. The situation has changed, which only indicates that it becomes more expensive to go further away. Well, that's understandable. I'm not protesting it. It is important that Finland continues to be an active crisis management country in the future. But I share the concern of Mr Haavisto, to whom the Minister also replied, that it is worth considering many times that we now have to understand the situation in which Finland is in. I do not protest against it, but it raises questions about the future. It's kind of shardy that we're in a lot of places with a small crowd. It is a question of effectiveness, of investing our limited resources in matters of foreign importance, and of their effectiveness in that matter itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u63	Mr President! I shall briefly comment on this development cooperation and it is quite true what Mr Urpilainen has already said about this situation. I would also like to add that, in this opinion, in a difficult situation, even in the context of the cut in development cooperation appropriations, the committee also decided to propose a solution to exploit the strong expertise and experience of the organisations. The Committee on Finance therefore considers it important that Finnfund's projects make the most of the expertise of NGOs, and they should also be used to implement other development cooperation in their expertise. We must remember that the refugee crisis is indeed interdependent between the various sectors of government, and the massive influx of asylum seekers, in terms of national security and public order and security, particularly affects the sectors of government of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. This crisis must be dealt with at international level
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u64	Madam President! I'll take it from where Mr. Ruoho decided. So this refugee crisis for the whole of Europe is a very serious problem, and the key, of course, is that the crises and wars in the countries that have fallen down in the countries that are the cause of the refugee crisis in the first place, and these problems can be solved. Another fundamental element for Europe is that we can really agree with Turkey on measures that the European Union would contribute to financing and which would make it possible to improve properly the level of refugee camps in Turkey, which are close to the countries of origin: children would receive education, adults would receive health care, and that would allow people to be in these camps, so that the prospect of returning to their country of origin would also be much more realistic than coming north, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u65	Madam President! Indeed, it is very regrettable that the majority of the Committee on Finance did not take full account of this opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs — indeed, it is very significant that the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is taken into account, and of course our alternative is better taken into account than in this report of the Committee on Finance. I would now like to ask the chairman of the former Committee on Foreign Affairs, the current minister, for his opinion on this: should not the Committee of Experts really listen to this? I also ask you: when so many times we hear horrors in this Chamber about the management of the refugee crisis and the costs it entails for us here in Finland, would it not be more reasonable to really help UN organisations, for example, to keep those camps and their conditions in such a way that people might not necessarily be forced to go out and seek life and path elsewhere? The situation is that even food rations, health services and so on have had to be reduced in those camps. Is this not a rather dubious way that the government has now chosen to cut out of this work?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u66	Mr President! In the context of the refugee crisis and international policy, I believe it is also important to discuss the root causes. The number of terrorist organisations is not decreasing, and Isis is just one among many others. We were hoping for other consequences in the Arab spring than what we are now seeing, and I therefore believe it is important to draw attention to how people are prevented from joining radical movements. My question to the Minister is: how can people's lack of vision, corruption and such dictatorships, which collapse and get into this kind of chaos, be helped with regard to the West? I consider what is happening in Syria and in the neighbouring countries to be a very dangerous development. What is the Minister's view of preventing radicalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u67	Mr President! A total of EUR 64.4 million is proposed for crisis management, of which EUR 49 million is proposed for military crisis management. The previous minus is EUR 3.8 million. The priorities are in Lebanon and Afghanistan, but also elsewhere in the Middle East and Africa. I would like to ask: could the Minister assess the need for additional appropriations and the scale of future additional budgets in terms of crisis management? Apparently, earlier it was the idea to reduce participation in military crisis management operations and focus on the most relevant and effective operations for Finland. I am sure this reduction in the need for appropriations does not seem timely in the current circumstances, but I would like to ask again: it is possible to insist that even after the French request and when replying to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u68	Mr President! I also agree with the amazement that this funding for development cooperation organisations was not agreed by consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take account of state resources. But I would like to ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs: now that Turkey has a significant account of this management of refugee movements, has those discussions with Turkey taken into account other than this western border as an important element? The influxes of refugees have proved to be rapidly reversed by the changes in these situations, and I am concerned if the flows of refugees from Turkey — if the Western border alone is under consideration — turn away. There may be significant risks there from the Finnish perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u69	Madam President! What is happening in the world is something terrible to look at. The actions Isis has taken there on the ground are barbaric, they are cruel, they cannot be understood in any way here. Unfortunately, the extreme material has also been leaked here in Europe, which is of course one of the serious examples of the terrorist attacks in Paris. However, it seems that the countries of the world are perhaps getting a little closer together. The U.S. and Russian Foreign Ministers have met in Paris. I should like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: how would you comment on this meeting with them? It appears that cooperation in intelligence and closer cooperation has now been agreed at least at first stage, but could this further intensify this fight against ISIS? Secondly, with regard to this return agreement, I would like to ask what you have been negotiating: How is it going to proceed, and will it be brought into effect? It is of the utmost importance now that those who do not receive asylum can then be returned to these potentially safe areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u70	Mr President! I am one of those who have been genuinely surprised that the majority of the Committee on Finance did not take this unanimous opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs into account. I am sure this will give us cause to monitor what is happening in development cooperation and what is happening in this organisation field, that there will be no irreplaceable damage. The second point concerns this attack in Paris and the French request for assistance and this issue of EU assistance. This is a huge issue in Finland's long-term foreign and security policy. When France has said that it is being attacked and has used a very strong language, that France is at war, and on that basis has asked for help from other countries in the EU, I think it is very important that the government should come to Parliament and tell the whole Parliament what the government intends to do on the basis of this EU Treaty obligation and obtain the approval of the whole Parliament. This is a big issue in our foreign and security policy, not only in relation to our position within the Union, but also in relation to what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u71	Mr President! While Mr Urplainen and many others are still asking about this Finnfund, I am now trying to say clearly what we discussed in the section. We would have had good will, in particular, towards these domestic development organisations and some of this money would have been transferred there, but when this parliamentary guidance is similar to this, the spending limits system defines these financial investments as external expenditure within the spending limits framework. And then Statistics Finland’s estimate — and I would remind you that it is a preliminary estimate — interprets this capital increase of Finnfund as normal expenditure in national accounts. However, since this capital invested in Finnfund has been profitable, it is therefore still considered as an item of expenditure outside the spending limits, even if the capital increase in the national accounts were to be calculated as normal expenditure. This is the reason why we could not do this gesture of goodwill, and that money is being allocated to Finnish development cooperation organisations. Once we have to go by these rules in this house, so unfortunately we could not do anything about it ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u72	Mr President! We need to worry about the functioning and coverage of the network, as well as about development cooperation, above all about the most effective work of non-governmental organisations. In this debate, I will also highlight the crisis management tasks that have become more dangerous with Daesh, and I hope that insurance cover and possible rehabilitation will be provided in advance when these tasks are taken up. Mr President! There are also the sanctions imposed on Russia, and I would ask Minister Soin: Finland is not involved in relaxing sanctions against Russia until there is real peace in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u73	Madam President! As far as the Finnfund issue is concerned, Mrs Niikko has described the situation fairly well, but I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. From Soin, is it not quite a reasonable requirement to give Finnfund as much funding as it requests, EUR 40 million and not EUR 130 million? And, above all, if Statistics Finland’s current estimate says that it is not a financial investment but internal financing of the spending limits, money could be transferred within the spending limits from a place to b, should we not give money specifically to the UN organisations and give Finnfund the amount that is requested? That is the key question. And the second thing: I know that party leader Soini rejoices over every single euro, which is cut off from development cooperation, but does Foreign Minister Soini know that the cuts in development cooperation like the boomerangs will strike back as humanitarian crises, as refugees grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u74	Time is running out, and time is running out for this debate. Once again, representatives Myller and Kaikkonen and then Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u75	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to this when the Minister said that the quota refugees go according to the government programme. The situation has certainly changed considerably since last spring. But a specific question I would like to address is the question of the practical abolition of state aid by European organisations. It is quite amazing — and I understand very well that the development organisations are shocked, I am also on their behalf — that the European debate in Finland is to be closed down, and that both the pro-European and the European-critical organisation is to be completely abolished. I ask: what is the basis of this? I know that it offers opportunities for project funding. Hopefully, the project funding will be developed in such a way that it is really useful for organisations that also have fixed costs, both administrative costs and staff costs. But the question is:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u76	Mr President! We have to fight terrorism. We have been asked to fight together with the coalition led by France, and the United States has also come up with a request for help, and about the same group is fighting the same groups in these two operations. Can you clarify a little about these two different groups and whether their division of duties is clear? It is not quite clear to me yet that this whole thing has become clear. Then this participation by Finland: in the French request for assistance there has been much discussion that it could be participation in Mali, strengthening it. How does it relate to the option that, after all, we should invest more in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, where we have a long tradition, a strong participation, and which is known to be directly able to release the French forces to other tasks? My own sense would perhaps seem a little more natural in this strengthening of the Lebanese mission, but how is this now becoming clearer within the government and with what timetable are final decisions being taken here? Let us say to the members of the UAV that the committee meeting will begin four minutes after the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u77	Secretary Soini, three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u78	Madam President! The representative of the wrapper, and there was also the representative of the grass: The effectiveness of Finland's crisis management is the fact that we influence it on the ground, we are useful, but we also maintain Finland's resources and capabilities. It's important to link these together as well. Representative Zyskowicz, from Turkey and refugee camps: It is very important that these camps have human conditions, for two reasons: for those who may return to their homeland, and then for the reason that people's living conditions there are tolerable. That is extremely important. As far as Finnfund is concerned, I still think it is very important that, in a sustainable way, if these countries are to move forward, there should be work, prospects, business, women's business, women's right to land and land ownership, all these things must be there. But Mr Elovaara's question was absolutely central: corruption and radicalisation. We have here in the front row Mr Haavisto, my special envoy specifically in Somalia and Eritrea and in the areas he is well aware of. This is very important that there is a view of a person, that he has a chance in this area, that he has a vision of the future, education, work. This is absolutely essential, for such people who have the opportunity to move forward in life will not be radicalized. Mr Rinne, you are absolutely right. Precisely, it is not enough to put an end to the flood from Turkey into Greece. There you can wait for the Bulgarian route, another route that leads to Russia, and this is absolutely essential that we also ensure that this migratory flow does not go there. And just as you said, human smugglers, cashiers, they in a few days, sometimes even in hours, will be able to control this migratory flow. As far as Lavrov and Kerry are concerned, I would say that they are in a very good model. There were so-called second talks in Viena until this shooting down of an aircraft, which makes this process difficult, not necessarily between Russia and the USA, but between Turkey and Russia and otherwise. Return contracts are constantly being twisted. I have raised this issue with both the Iraqi Foreign Minister and the Afghan Foreign Minister. At the moment, the most effective way to return Iraqis is to leave on their own. About 1,500 have left voluntarily. Mr Heinäluoma, it is also important for the national consensus that these matters of assistance and other matters are properly informed and formed into a common Finnish position. I believe that this will be properly presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u81	The general discussion in Section 24 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will now continue. To the list of speakers. Mr Kanerva, do you wish to speak at this stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u82	Mr President! However, could we start by saying, regrettably, that the debate on foreign and security policy has been managed by no one, but by no one, at a time when Parliament is in an anemic composition in number? Mr President! The environment in which foreign and security policy operates is changing, which poses a serious threat to how we could be prepared and convinced that physical security is guaranteed. Since World War II we have already had quite a few separate stages. A period of cold war, accompanied by very strong fear, which is based on confrontation, transformed into a relaxation and re-establishment in the '90s, accompanied by the convection of the Communist bankrot and the Soviet Union, came to a stage which was driven by hopes and expectations that Europe would find a stage that would lead to stability and prosperity rather than confrontation. That's not what happened. Optimism has lost its foundation, and we are again in a rather difficult, challenging and, in part, dangerous setting. This also makes Finland's foreign and security policy its own claims, which are not easy to answer, because preparing for these questions is not only a matter of resources, but also a matter in which we must be prepared to take responsibility for the new situation, not only for our own security, but also for the development of our security environment in Europe. Unfortunately, then, we have to look at things from the shadowy side of the street. It is a claim that today is felt in Finland's defence solutions. It is felt in our foreign policy, and it is also reflected in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior. More than ever, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are forced to implement their policies through a common threat picture of the security situation in Europe. When we have to pay increasing attention to the issues of hard security — whatever our own will it is necessary to do this in Finland — I would also like Finland's foreign policy to have the strength to have enough interest in mediation, mediation and diplomatic measures. Finland's good and positive role in international arenas is something that must not now be allowed to pass. Finland has a good record, and we are identified in our efforts to find something that unites the international situation. We are faced with many difficult disputes that underscore not only this need to be prepared for tough security, but also the need for a high profile and a bold approach to the work and activities of mediation to be active and to seek solutions that, by diplomatic and political means, rather than military means, could reduce the security risks that threaten us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u83	Mr President! The Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs now has fundamental Finnish power, and it is also reflected in the Government's draft budget for 2016. The goal of the Finns Party is to promote Finland's good relations with other countries, as well as the influence and economic well-being of our country. The draft operating expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is approximately EUR 226 million, of which more than half is to be included in the operational expenditure of the delegation network covering approximately 90 locations. The measures taken to improve Finland's economy will sting everyone and every administrative sector. Nevertheless, it is very pleasant to note that money is being used specifically to preserve the network of representations, which promotes our country's independent foreign and security policy. In this context, current issues have become a proposal from the EU for border control authorities to be able to target border management forces of this kind in a Member State by forceful measures. On the other hand, the Commission has proposed a change to the Arms Directive, a wide range of foreign and security policy-related solutions which, in my view, put Finland, as many Member States, to the test of sovereignty in the traditional sense. Fortunately, the large committee and the specialised committees have great reservations about this amendment to the Arms Directive, and at the very least they want a national derogation because of Finland's defence solution. In this context, I would like to thank all the parliamentary parties for the unity that has been achieved in the interests of this national interest. On the other hand, one side of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration and this draft budget, which certainly does not like the left-wing position, is, of course, a significant cut in the budget for development aid. In 2014, development cooperation expenditure accounted for 0.6 per cent of gross national income, next year 0.38. In religious ecstasy, the left-wing opposition says a magical 0.7 percent figure, even though they probably do not even know where this figure comes from. Mr President! Another topical issue in foreign and security policy has, of course, been the rapprochement between Russia and the United States in relation to the fight against Islamic extremist Isis. In Finnish media, the Russian expert, Docent Kauppala, called it a breakthrough, and such a characterisation can be agreed on. This is exactly what I predicted in my book on the Migrant Crisis, including the fact that the United States has now made a public commitment to the fact that the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria will at least remain in force temporarily, which means that he will remain in power. In my view, this is a smart measure that Finland must adopt a position on in some way. For its part, Finland must be involved in the fight against ISIS, providing support to both France and the United States, but, of course, in the case of Finland, it is likely that some kind of material and other kind of support, rather than military support. But it is clearly in Finland's interest that the activities of the Islamic extremist Isis movement, its organisational capacity also for attacks in Europe, will be destroyed as far as possible in the region of origin. It takes, of course, then Islamic countries to become allies, and it is gratifying to note that Saudi Arabia has, for its part, brought together a coalition of Islamic countries against ISIS. I would like to stress that this is an issue which requires the widest possible coalition, let me say, in such a spirit of World War II as the West and their supporters. To conclude, I am pleased to note the continued good management of this network of representations and the fact that Finland is gradually joining the Western countries where foreign and security policy can also be talked about quite freely.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u84	Mr President! In that regard, Mr Elo referred to the alternative budget of the SDP, where the essential point was that the capitalisation planned for this Finnfund would have been divided into the development cooperation of non-governmental organisations — just as the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously required in its unanimous opinion. And now we have not been given a proper explanation in this Chamber as to why, even though Finnfund's funding is considered to be public expenditure, it could not still be reduced and partly distributed to NGOs, in accordance with the unanimous wishes of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is precisely the key people who can answer this question that are missing, but it is not enough to say that it is technically an out-of-the-line item. There is nothing to prevent it from being brought into the framework if the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously agrees on this, or from creating an NGO fund outside the framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u85	Madam President! Mr Harakka is quite right; this was, of course, an important point in the Socialist alternative budget. That is how much I would like to comment on this point: Statistics Finland was asked to interpret whether these capital increases of Finnfund would be counted as a so-called financial investment and not as central government expenditure in national accounts. This was indeed sought, and until now Finnfund's capital increase has been calculated as expenditure, but a new interpretation was sought because it was seen in the preparation of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the criteria for a financial investment were met. Well, this Statistics Finland ended up consulting Eurostat to calculate them as expenditure in national accounts, i.e. as part of the budget-economy deficit. This is the situation that has been established, as has been said earlier in the speeches, the solution that has finally been reached here. But I understand the point of view that if the Committee on Foreign Affairs has indeed made such a unanimous proposal, then questions arise as to why it has not then been fully taken into account. But this relates to the estimate requested from Statistics Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u86	Let us take at least two replies. Representatives Mikkonen and Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u87	Mr President! I am just wondering what Mr Harakka has said, especially since this was indeed a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I think it is a little technical trick to say that this was not taken into account, because it is practically the same money. It must also be remembered that Finnfund is certainly doing all right in terms of development cooperation and a little new. I do not blame it in itself, but now that the organization is given much more money than they themselves ask, it is quite clear that it is also difficult for them to make sense of it on a fast schedule. Just as when the development cooperation organisations are severely cut, then we are really in trouble, what to do, how to adapt so quickly, just as if you get a lot more than you have ever imagined in their hopes, it brings problems in how to make that money rationally available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u88	Mr Mikkonen made an excellent speech here. Indeed, Finnfund will not be able to spend this money next year. They just can’t develop such projects that the money will be spent. But now, Mr Elo's views are very contradictory. On page 8, the report of the Committee on Finance states that 'the Committee considers it important that the Ministry examines the possibilities of increasing the support of non-governmental organisations for internal transfers'. This is just what the entire opposition has been trying to explain for three months now that we do not even need more money for this item, but that internal transfers should be carried out in such a way that these huge Finnish development cooperation organisations do not have to put people out of work. But he hasn't just got there, and he won't get there today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u89	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u90	Madam President! First of all, thank you to Mrs Kanerva for a good, reflective approach to foreign policy. But before going into the actual foreign policy, in my own speech, I would like to thank most humbly our Parliament, our committees of experts, Mr Kanerva, including members of the large committee, in this discussion of the Arms Directive. Representative Karimäki, representative Marin and Harakka are also here. We received a good, unanimous, toppakka position today in the great committee which is an integral part of our foreign and security policy, our defence. This will allow our ministers to negotiate at the end of the EU. We will certainly make good progress on this. Madam Speaker! We live in a very challenging world at the moment. Crisis after crisis affects us as Finland, even crises that were not believed to exist a few years ago. The events in Ukraine have influenced the activity we have had in this area around Finland. Activity in that Baltic Sea has increased and, of course, it has also aroused us in many ways. There has been talk of foreign policy in a much more serious way than perhaps some time ago. National defence also plays a more serious and important role in the debate, both in the public debate and in the internal debate in this house, and is also invested in it. According to the proposals of the parliamentary working group last season, for example, there will be more defence material, and these things will then be seen with great care. Of course, there is also a desire to hold on to the resources that guarantee universal military service. As a result of the crisis in Ukraine in particular, Russia and the West have fallen apart, if that is the case. This is a crisis that we all suffer from, Finland in particular as a neighbour of Russia and an old trading partner of Russia, of course. Efforts have been made to tackle this crisis by means of sanctions, and there have also been sanctions against them. Our food sector in particular suffers from this. Of course, we need to find ways out of this situation so that our trade too can recover and our exports can recover, which would be important in this economic situation for us anyway. What, then, could be the trigger factors for the crisis? Maybe it's the even worse crisis somewhere else. There on the land of Iraq, Syria, there are unacceptable, unrespectable atrocities committed by ISIS, this terrorist organisation, and there is a desire to find unity in order to prevent them and, consequently, to prevent them, including with the influx of asylum seekers, into Europe. That is something that needs to be addressed. It is an extremely good thing that today the foreign ministers of the United States and Russia have also been able to agree on the promotion of matters, mainly now that intelligence is exchanged at this stage, but this may have long-term implications, at least I want to believe that. Finland has also been invited to participate in this crisis management. After all, we are in Iraq, Erbil, as trainers at the moment, and this has now been specifically requested, and I am sure that Finland should respond to it. Overall, crisis management should be taken seriously. I myself myself was perhaps more skeptical in the past, but of course now that you have been able to sit around the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, you have heard and seen how important this work is, among other things. Madam President! Foreign policy and defence policy, the policy in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, these are one big whole and are in a stronger position in today's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u91	Madam President! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the refugee crisis has been on the agenda throughout the autumn, including, of course, with representatives from different countries. On foreign and security policy issues, we are quite interdependent, sharing the same problems globally. In Finland, it has been required that those who are in distress be helped as close as possible to their homes. In this context, it should also be borne in mind that the reception of asylum seekers and the provision of basic needs to them, albeit with debt money, can be calculated as largely ODA-eligible development aid. There has been quite a little discussion here about this item of expenditure in the billions of dollars in all its indirect costs. How much more length do we need for a productivity leap to cover these annual costs of asylum seekers? The refugee crisis itself must be dealt with by international cooperation. I would like to thank Foreign Minister Soini for the enormous work he is doing in the face of historic challenges. He is appreciated as an experienced and expert politician, even from abroad. He also took up an essential issue and began negotiating return agreements with Iraq, among others. We are also actively involved in crisis management. I would like to highlight the importance of civilian crisis management, because it tackles precisely the root causes that cause refugees and migration in pursuit of a better standard of living. The problem needs to be approached comprehensively through international cooperation and in such a way that no party is excluded if a sustainable solution is to be found. When we look at these solutions politically, we must be realistic and take the current situation as a starting point, and then there is no room for moralisation on the part of the parties. If the situation in the Middle East is to be resolved militarily, it will always cost innocent civilian victims. And after Syria, must we move to the African continent, Libya, where Isis has strong concentrations and is said to be leading its human smuggling business towards Europe? Mr President! I said in the debate this morning that the refugee crisis is intertwined among the various sectors of government. Krp managed to arrest two suspected terrorists in Finland. It is possible that there are other terrorists in the country and it is likely that more of them will come here as the Western countries, together with Russia, manage to make Isis' position more difficult. Finland must not be a refuge for terrorists. Finland should also promote a uniform penalty scale and practice for terrorist offences at EU level, and, on the other hand, we here in Finland should look at the practical length of the life sentence, because it is not currently a deterrent to international comparisons. With the current resources of the police, including the protection police, there is a relatively low risk of being caught in a flood of asylum seekers, and even for those who have been caught, our punishment and conditions in prisons are not a deterrent, but rather an attraction from the terrorist point of view. We Finns are opposed to Finland becoming a refuge for terrorists. A number of speakers have pointed out how asylum seekers are the answer to our greying population and that this would correct the heavy dependency ratio. Yesterday, Mr Hakkarainen highlighted the cold facts about the probability of successful integration, referring to our previous experiences and statistical data. In fact, the dependency ratio will become more burdensome if we do not succeed in employing asylum seekers who receive a residence permit. The opposition suggests that they would like to grant almost every asylum seeker a residence permit, even if the conditions for asylum are not met, and, on the other hand, they are horrifying the government's plans that the asylum seeker should have a fixed-term residence permit. The best place for everyone is in their own home country, once safety is stabilised there. The people who use the Sanctuary can't keep the people forced to fix our dependency relationship. It is not right morally or according to the spirit of the law. However, I am in favour of asylum seekers being able to find employment during the examination of their application, but it must not affect the assessment of whether a person is eligible for a residence permit if he has entered the country as an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u92	Let us take the floor for a reply. Congressman Razmyar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u93	Madam President! At the same time, we must bear in mind – and I fully agree with that – that Finland must not be a terrorist asylum country, but Finland must be a country where people in their own country fear and die because of terrorism can seek refuge. And these are the people we have today, both in Europe and in Finland, so it is good to mention it in this debate too, when you raise terrorism in particular. It is true that Minister Soini has done a good job, and we all appreciate the Minister here from his experience, but in some memoirs he said that there will never be more than 30,000 asylum seekers in the world and Finland. Certainly this world situation has surprised him too, and it is difficult to understand from this point of view that in spring the government decided to make such significant cuts in development aid, even though the world situation has been well known to us for a very long time, certainly also to this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u94	Madam President! I would like to correct the statement made in this speech by Mr Ruoho that these domestic refugee costs could be counted as development aid. That is not the case. These ODA eligible development aid funds, i.e. the Office Development Assistance, when comparing the contribution of different countries to the level of gross domestic product to development aid, do not include domestic refugee expenditure, but are funds or loans to developing countries for the development of their economies and for their extensive well-being in the country of destination, not in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u95	Madam President! Of course, asylum seekers need to be taken into account, and surely most of them are those who really need it. Of course, the extremists there are always concerned, who are being followed by the protection police and who have, of course, caught up with some of them. Of course, we must remember to go there to the source, and that is where we must be able to intervene even better. The situation in Syria and Iraq At the moment, it is by Isil that we simply have to go there with such a strong alliance to eliminate the evil extremists there. But in addition to that, these other crisis management areas of ours are increasingly under review, including the Afghanistan operation, where we have been involved. And we cannot come out of there, not under any circumstances, but we must continue, and that is what the government is now preparing for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u96	And one more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u97	Madam President! That development aid, which is why they're cutting it. I've had a lot of experience with that. I was in Nicaragua making local sawmills, and there was such a situation that development aid was taken there. What was the target? At that time these labored battalions went up and down the mountains with red flags in their hands. They were taking sickle sticks and this ideology there. Then, when the Soviet Union broke up, they left, the machines and everything — the Soviet machines — have remained uncarried. They'd need that help. Where is this humanism now when they need more than those red flags and ideology? They'd really need food there. You can't see those guys out there, moaning and marching any more when the ideology's gone. The problem here is that the development aid money goes to the wrong places.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u98	Madam President! I have rarely disagreed with anyone as much about goals and results as I do with Elo. Representative Elo said here that where did this 0.7% come from? Yes, it is the UN’s goal for the rich countries to which Finland is committed, no one has come up with it. It is also part of the EU's objectives to which Finland is committed, and this is not a single invention for anyone. Mr President! This draft budget for the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is one of the saddest parts of this draft budget. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been the subject of cuts for several years, and the cuts will continue next year. The report by the Committee on Finance speaks harshly. Let's start with the ability of Finnish diplomatic missions. As a matter of principle, the situation in the delegations is rather weak because their resources have been cut year after year and, after this proposal, they will remain weak. I don't understand how Elo sees something exhilarating in this, that these things are in such great shape now. They've been in weak oxygen for a long time. Finland has a number of diplomatic missions whose personnel size has been calculated from four to two, with one or two persons in parts. When one suffers, a substitute is flown from Finland, and often the substitute knows neither the area nor the job he is assigned to. Everyone can guess what kind of service can be provided in diplomatic missions. Now that staff can no longer be reduced, the Finnish Independence Day celebration, which is one of the most important events through which the delegation creates relations with regional actors, will be put to an end in several embassies. Secondly, Finland is changing the focus of the construction of the Finnish image as Finland increases its military presence in the world and at the same time reduces its humanitarian presence in the world. We will change the focus of development cooperation from quality and respect for the quality of the work of NGOs to financial investment. Even though Finnfund does good things, yes, these are so different series of things. This white-collar activity is far from the soil and reality of development cooperation and can never be as impressive as the work now being done through NGOs. Investment is also much more vulnerable to corruption than helping directly with the people without intermediaries. Thirdly, Finland is far from everything, but now it also shuts itself off from the outside world when it drives down multilateral cooperation with UN sub-organisations, the Children's Fund Unicef, the environmental programme UNEP and the development programme UNDP. General support for organisations: WHO, FAO and ILO are on the way to being completely excluded from general support. There is a massive decline in the image of Finland that is not known in the history of Finland. However, the speciality of this report can be found on page 8 where, as it were, there are still traces of conscience: "The committee considers it important that the Ministry examines the possibilities of increasing the support of NGOs for internal transfers." The committee itself could have made this internal transfer without the Ministry's report. You could have reduced Finnfund's money by EUR 49 million or earmarked Finnfund's money to be invested in Finnish organisations by EUR 49 million. Mr President! This proposal is an historic demonstration of desperation and unemployment. This is where NGOs are driven down, professional skills. People are now on the unemployment card, several hundred people, and their numbers are increasing. This has been one of the saddest proposals of this round of budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u99	President! Referring to what I have just said to the honourable Member, I am a little confused because, in the previous section, I listened to his tremendous acclaim when he praised and stressed the activity surrounding the creation of young entrepreneurs. Finnfund is a system in which it is entrepreneurship that comes into our international development cooperation with a constructive and positive contribution — and now that element is suddenly in some way a representative of the evil empire. I do not quite understand the logic that exists between these two proposals. Mr President! I myself have been a member of the Government where the GDP limit of 0.7 has been exceeded in the government's estimate of revenue and expenditure on development cooperation. I believe that the Finnish palette must be kept together in a diverse way, and in this way I cannot accept the idea of a recent speech in which crisis management is regarded as an unacceptable form of international cooperation in Finland, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u100	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Kanerva for her views, and I also welcome her criticism. There is nothing between these two speeches in itself but this difficult time in this sitting itself: things really change places so quickly. These are things that are separate from each other. I certainly do not regard Finnfund as a project that I would blame; I was just talking about this change of focus. That is exactly what I mean by participating in these various peace missions: a huge change of focus, while the whole humanitarian work is almost being driven down. And yes, the focus of my speech is on how to make such separate decisions, as if not to see the whole operation of this ministry. And yet,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u101	One last reply, to Mr Razmyar, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u102	Madam President! I am sure no one has argued here, Mr Kanerva, that Finnfund's work would be somewhat less valuable, but at the moment the confrontation that has also been made between our very valuable NGOs is difficult to understand. Both are needed in this world, but it must be admitted that our NGOs have also done an excellent job, and it seems very sad to halve its work. It is absolutely true that development aid is needed, but so is crisis management, and Afghanistan, as you said, is a good example of this. In this context, it is also good to thank Finns for their crisis management tasks. They have done excellent work in Afghanistan, for example — so good that they do not really want to leave. It also tells a great deal about Finnish competence in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u103	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u104	Madam President! When we talk about social and health policy, we all remember the importance of preventive work, but when it comes to security policy, we often forget that foreign policy is a preventive work. And that is why it is very regrettable that this budget is now being cut very drastically from foreign policy: both from our delegations, which are an important part of the preventive work, and also from development cooperation, which is being subjected to massive, even shameful cuts. Yesterday, there was a lot of talk in this Chamber about internal security and new, new security threats, and also about how refugee flows have taken us all by surprise, although, on the other hand, we have always known that this is possible and that at some point people will certainly start to move when conditions deteriorate and crises arise. That is why I find it disconcerting that this draft budget cuts so much from development cooperation when we know that, by directing aid to crisis regions and neighbouring regions, these flows of refugees are likely to be significantly reduced. One of the reasons for these great flows from that part of Syria is the need to reduce food rations in the refugee camps in the neighbouring countries of the United Nations, because the aid from this international community to the UN food fund has decreased so much. And it has been such a last sign and such desperation that has triggered a lot of people who would otherwise have been prepared to wait there for the situation to clear up and they could return home. Furthermore, here we are reducing aid from UN organisations, a great many, including this food programme, and I think that this is really the wrong solution. This report by the Committee on Finance also states that ‘the development funds allocated to these areas of crisis, both countries of origin and countries of transit, can contribute to the causes of migration and prevent global flows of refugees’. Then it is said here that 'the humanitarian situation in the world is exceptionally bad, including the resolution of the refugee crisis requires investment in crisis areas and refugee camps in their neighbourhood'. And after all this, the answer is that there is a huge cut in development aid funds. This is very difficult to understand. This was once praised for how Finland gains more influence in the world in terms of its foreign policy, but it is not promoted by the fact that we weaken the funding of the UN, on the contrary. Even Prime Minister Ban Ki-moon, who visited Finland, noticed how severely Finland cut off the UN and development cooperation overall. Well, crisis management may no longer be such a preventive action, but in fact the crises have already been very much escalated, but it is important work, and it is also reconstruction. Well, this budget is cut from that too, but when I have wondered more than once, I have been assured that Finland will continue to participate actively and will always consider where to go, on a case-by-case basis, and will be given separate amending budgets. But when this situation is as it is in the world as a whole and we know that crises are increasing and that aid is needed precisely through this development cooperation, I really hope that Finland will also be prepared to intervene in the supplementary budgets and provide assistance through the UN or, for example, through various organisations to the development areas where it is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u105	Madam President! As far as that development aid is concerned, one study was such that a percentage of it gets through. I wonder if it was called Korhonen — if anyone else will then be repaired — who said that it was completely pointless work for people who do not need it to go to the pots of the medicine men, and they get fat there and drive on white SUVs so that the reindeer spins in the jungle. It's not gonna help the real needy one. Think of the woman who is there: the flies revolve around, the little fat child in the lap, such a water belly, it will not get that help. That's why they cut this off. But let's get back to that asylum tourism. We have a major problem in our hands, namely the Iraqis and asylum tourists coming from there. There may be many more dangerous people among them than we know so far. Yesterday, when we had a lively debate here on the issue of harmful immigration, many representatives spoke of the suspect in two war crimes. However, so far there are three prisoners, since before these 11 suspects were imprisoned an Iraqi man, who may be the same person that many of us have seen very brutal Facebook photos. We cannot return these to Iraq because there is a death sentence there. The people are angry and worried that we cannot return the Iraqis to where they belong in the wider sense. This is particularly worrying because there are so many of them here and we do not really know anything about them. You get the birth certificate you want from Baghdad. We only have their own word, and how much can we trust it if it is a soldier or a fugitive? Madam President! Foreign Minister Soini has unwittingly come into a difficult situation. The other Nordic countries have had a return agreement for years, but not for us. In this situation, it may be difficult to obtain it, even though Minister Soini is a skilled negotiator. We Finns have been accused of anything in recent months, but it is also honest to admit that the problem is the reverse of previous governments. Between 2007 and 2011, the Minister for Immigration was Astrid Thors of the RKP. He promised Finland a return agreement with Iraq. I quote from the article in Evening magazine dated 19 September this year: 'Thors wanted to make an immigration policy on immigrants' terms and wanted to promote work-related immigration. “Our agreement is in substance equivalent to the The agreement will be ready during the autumn, but no later than the end of the year,” Thors promised in Kaleva in August 2009. The agreement was reported to have been pending and already in a good phase in 2009. But it never happened. Thors was a minister until 2011, and since his ministerial term Iraq has no longer been ready to conclude a return agreement." Madam President! A return agreement with Afghanistan should also be agreed as a matter of urgency. I don't think the negotiations are going to make it any easier. Finally, I would like to wish Minister Soin and the whole government strength in this difficult situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u106	Madam President! From the outset, Mr Hakkarainen: those return agreements are not so simple and, first of all, they will need to be signed before they occur, including a stable country, where people can be returned. That's what this is all about, which is why it's difficult. But, Mr President, the government has taken on the refugee crisis and the integration of immigrants, well, sometimes in a very interesting way, but the work has been done, and the situation is difficult in the world. However, much more needs to be done to achieve a sustainable policy and a genuinely good solution, precisely there, and this is what the Minister needs to do on the ground. I've often been stressed by my soiree myself. Support is needed for as many girls as possible to go to school, support for clean water in villages and better food production opportunities. We need equality, we need democracy, above all. In other words, development cooperation and peace-keeping are needed. With regard to development cooperation, the government does not take one step forward, but rather ten backwards, and unfortunately stumbles and stumbles in the middle. At a time when everyone's contribution is needed to manage the refugee crisis, for example, the government is cutting about half the resources from those NGOs that have the skills and have the volunteers who, without money, are currently doing very valuable work around the world. This is short-sighted not only for the moment, but also for the future. Finnish non-governmental organisations have a huge amount of project know-how, and they will get help there and for the people who need it. If most of the funds are to be recycled through business in the future, this must indeed be put under close scrutiny. In societies that suffer from corruption and poor governance — which is quite true, there are unfortunately many of these societies — there is a better way to transfer funds directly to those who need it. But isn't that a common goal for all of us? In addition to this concern, which I have about this overall picture, I would like to raise a few points about this very budget. The first is this multilateral cooperation which we were able to talk about this morning. This means, among other things, UN agencies such as UNICEF, UNHCR and UN Women, as well as many other UN organisations. Unlike previous years, the government has still not explained how the cuts will be distributed and what contributions the organisations will make to this money. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, recently visited Finland, praised Finland for its cooperation with the UN. I do not know who was there and who spoke to the Secretary-General, but I would have been more ashamed. Another interesting detail will be climate finance, which was decided in a historical way and on the basis of good results at the Paris climate conference. The industrialised countries are committed to increasing climate finance to 100 billion, which is absolutely essential if we are to achieve these objectives. I look forward to an explanation of how and from what resources Finland will increase its contribution to climate finance. The cuts in development cooperation have already reduced the work that will reduce the effects of climate change and the problems that arise. Hopefully, the government will take climate change as seriously as many other countries at the moment, such as the USA, which doubled funds, and China, previously known for its bad reputation, is even involved in these efforts. Madam President! Finally, the government has said that the cuts are only temporary: because we have financial difficulties, we have to make these unfortunate decisions. I really expect the government to see the road map by which development cooperation funds are raised to the previous level and finally to the 0.7 which we have also committed ourselves to. These massive so-called temporary cuts cause such irreversible damage that it is difficult to return. Hopefully, the government will decide not to do them in the first place, but now that you have decided, at least at some point correct them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u107	Two replies — it appears that there will be three. Congressman Kanerva will begin. Hacker, Savola and Jarva. Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u108	Mr President! The UN Secretary-General did not come to Finland to reproach Finland; the UN Secretary-General thanked Finland for Finland's contribution to the prevention of international conflicts, referring to Finland's contribution to peacekeeping missions, Finland's significant contribution to crisis management missions, Finland's significant profile in conflict prevention activities, such as radicalisation in focused disputes and their prevention. And what does not require money but requires spiritual investment and what no one here has really paid attention to, apart from the opening speech, and what is most important is mediation. It can be done with very thin financial resources, but it requires mental effort and that Finland courageously be an example of mediation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u112	Madam Speaker! Of course, this economic situation will have to be cut out of that development cooperation. Of course we have long-term objectives, we are committed to the UN objectives of 0.7, but it would be so much money that we simply cannot afford it at the moment. You have to live up to what we have at the moment. I am not opposed to development cooperation, absolutely not. A year ago, I was able to visit Nepal with the Department of Development of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I saw what good our development funds did too. But now we have to look at the things that we can do with little money, how we can direct them to the development of the local business, the creation of local work and, therefore, well-being — it is now the focus we have to look at. And when we get the good economic measures of the government to boost the economy, we will also be able to raise development funds at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u113	Mr President! We have been talking about this recommendation from the UN that this 0.7% of GDP should be used for this development cooperation. After all, Finland, as a state, has made a real commitment to this goal — unfortunately, it has also become a backward step in previous governments. The clear objective of the centre is also that, once we improve the economic situation, we must move towards the goal of being able to participate in development cooperation in line with this 0.7% target in the future. But the way in which this development cooperation is being carried out must be more focused so that it is more effective and that money does not go to the wrong places, indeed to these dictators and other actors. There are still too many of those problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u114	Madam President! Representative Heather must have been a longtime statesman to know what the language of diplomacy is. Without prejudice to the fact that the Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, does not directly blame Finland, but I have dealt with a lot of those who directly work with UN agencies and, unfortunately, there our reputation is not as good as what you have described here today. We need multilateral cooperation. The UN has big shoulders and is needed in the current world situation. It is absolutely true that we also need peace-keeping, that we need peace-keeping. Finland has also done a good job there. But you too, Mrs Kanerva, understand that people also need drinking water, that girls also need training and that people need alternatives to that drug farming so that they can grow rice and potatoes. That is also what development cooperation is doing, which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u115	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u116	Madam President! Let's continue with this subject. In my opinion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative sector is fully in line with the Government Programme, and development cooperation is being reduced. In actual fact, 300 million will be cut out of development cooperation; that is exactly the right direction. Similarly, the transfer of 130 million into a financial investment is a sensible and effective policy. This change means that the number of sites to be supported will be specified and the support will be directed much more rationally. It must be possible to assess the results of development cooperation more closely so that we do not support the wrong targets. It is precisely the wrong type of transnational development cooperation that has received a great deal of criticism. For example, Zambian economist Dambisa Moyo is a well-known critic. Humanitarian aid is always important, but everything else must be precise. I believe that more must be done in the direction of refugee camps in the future. However, I do not believe that this will have any significant impact on international migration, because it is clear that a large proportion of our asylum seekers have become victims of suitable marketing for a better standard of living. However, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is able to do much more to resolve the crisis. I hope that the return agreements with Iraq, Somalia and Afghanistan will be brought into force as soon as possible — these countries are at least partially safe countries, according to an updated security survey.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u117	Madam President! Development and development policy is an important part of Finland's foreign policy and international activities and also an image of what we are conveying to the world. So it is not a loose part, but a significant part of our reputation in the world. We have had a good reputation for having done good work internationally, and as a Nordic country we have also received perhaps even unprofitable value added from the whole of what the Nordic countries have done together, for example in the field of development cooperation. Now in 2015, eight millennia and the Rio Agenda have come to an end, and this has brought about important things: extreme poverty was halved early and more than 2 billion people have received clean drinking water. Nine out of ten children in the world are allowed to start primary school. These are good things that have been implemented, among other things, through these agendas. Now Finland is committed to the new Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030, and not only is it intended to continue this work that has been done in the past, but there are also a lot of goals for us Western countries, for the industrialised countries, in what way we can contribute to this development package. A total of 17 of these objectives concern both environmental sustainability, economic sustainability and social sustainability. This is also why it is a real shame that the government is now undermining these objectives with these massive cuts in development cooperation. So we have indeed committed ourselves to the UN target of 0.7% of GDP that we should achieve. Now this government is crumbling our international reputation by cutting development funding in a very significant way, and this is also going against these agendas to which we are committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u118	Madam President! This is an unprecedented refugee crisis, and many members of the government parties and ministers are talking about the need to be able to help people in the crisis area on the ground. That is why it is really twofold that more than EUR 300 million will be cut from the actual development funds. It is with this money that we could ease the humanitarian crisis, bring aid to those in need and help the poorest in the world. Many NGOs have been working on long-term, good development cooperation for years on projects whose benefits are now threatening to be wasted. These projects have, among other things, strengthened local livelihoods, such as agriculture in developing countries. Development cooperation is important in humanitarian crises, it is important in combating hunger, it is important in girls' education. Madam President! At the Paris climate negotiations, it was agreed that developed countries would help developing countries with climate finance. In Finland, emissions auction revenues have previously been directed to development cooperation and climate finance, among other things. I would now like to say that in the spirit of Paris there is no longer a sustainable idea which, even in the Government Programme, is that emissions auction revenues should be channelled to energy-intensive industries to compensate for emissions trading. It is now much more sustainable to invest in clean technology and cleantech and to allocate funds to development funds so that we can also fulfil our international commitments. We have promised that 0.7% of Finland's gross domestic product would be development cooperation appropriations, and that is quite right and reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u119	Mr President! The cuts in the budget for development cooperation at a time when the number of refugees is globally higher than ever since World War II are unsustainable. It is these funds that will help to influence and alleviate the causes that are driving people out of their homes first and foremost. In particular, cuts in development cooperation by NGOs are unsustainable. In particular, the way in which the cuts are carried out is unsustainable. A drastic one-off cut will lead to the interruption of projects and the loss of results already achieved and, as a result, to the loss of money. It is inconceivable that the modulation of savings proposed by the organisations has not been more rear-loaded. Against this background, Finnfund’s massive capital increase is extraordinary. Finnfund and business-led development policy have an important role to play and should be increased. However, it cannot fully replace the so-called traditional development cooperation carried out by organisations. It is very regrettable that the Committee on Finance has not taken account of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which it proposes that part of the planned increase in Finnfund's capital for next year should be directed towards securing the work of NGOs and UN organisations. Mr President! The effectiveness of development cooperation must be assessed and long-term efforts must be made to improve and develop it. However, massive cutting is not development. It is clear that development cooperation funds must be used effectively and the aim must be not only to deal with the necessary humanitarian crises, but also to strengthen and develop the societies and the economy of developing countries on a long-term basis. Finland has profiled its position in the global promotion of women and has been a major contributor to UN Women. Now there is also a considerable reduction from UN Women. I hope that the financial contribution of the organisations can be increased in the future. It has been a very important target for Finland, and Finland has profiled and gained a reputation for it. Unfortunately, this organisation does not have too many funders. Another important priority in Finland's policy has been mediation, as Mrs Kanerva pointed out. This is an extremely important issue, and Finland has a good reputation and expertise in it. It is great that it is being invested in, and it is great especially because it is not necessarily that expensive and yet very important and good results can be obtained. But it is important that, especially in this situation, where resources are being reduced, Finland, as a small country, chooses its priorities. Since not everything can be involved and the resources are not enough, you have to think smartly now about what are the most important things for Finland, and perhaps do the kind of work that other countries may not do so much. Mr President! Mr Marin raised these new UN Sustainable Development Goals. Indeed, this autumn the UN has adopted the new development objectives, which will enter into force in 2016. The new "Agenda 2030 – Sustainable Development Goals" is a broad and universal set of goals for the world as a whole. The Agenda therefore applies to Finland as well as to us here in the Finnish Parliament, and this must be taken into account both in domestic policy and in foreign and development policy. The previous MDGs mainly concerned developing countries, but this new MDG is a new, global and universal set of targets. I would therefore like the debate on the implementation of the agenda and the demands of us, the Finnish Parliament, to be held in this Chamber in the coming year. Finally, I would also like to ask, as Mr Razmyar did, how Finland manages its contribution and its obligations to climate finance agreed in Paris. The Western countries have agreed that USD 100 billion per year should be channelled to climate finance. It would be very important to know what Finland's contribution to climate finance is, because we must also take our share of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u120	Madam President! I already mentioned this development issue in the debate this morning. I said that it was quite right when Mr Urpilainen mentioned that we really had a unanimous opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, admittedly, it was interesting that it did not have any more effect. I would also like to point out, as has already been pointed out, that this committee's report also states that it considers it important that the Ministry examines the possibilities of increasing the support of national organisations for internal transfers. Indeed, in this difficult situation of cutbacks in development spending, a solution was proposed to make use of the strong expertise and experience of the organisations, for example, by using the expertise of NGOs as far as possible in the Finnfund project, not only in these projects, but also in other development cooperation projects. I believe that Mr Hakkarainen has again, once again, hit the heart of the matter. We usually have to think about these root causes of the problems, and he mentioned this question of democracy. I would like to give you an example that always comes to my mind when I look at the beautiful wallboard I received from my Libyan friend Muhammad Ali on the living room wall. I have not heard anything about him since the Arab Spring, and I always remember when we argued in Darfur at the time, not in a heated manner, but nevertheless, because I had the Western view of the evil of Gaddafi and then he defended all the good things he has done in the country: reading at a very high level, Africans certainly were the best, and women were not the worst, and that was also what my friend Muhammad Ali saw about the way he talked about his mother and then his future wife. Then I would like to mention these: we must remember that we have indeed placed them in a difficult situation for our organisation. There is no denying it, and so has UN Women in Finland, from UNICEF Finland and Helena Lauko, the Executive Director of the Finnish UN Federation. It was precisely in the committee that we hoped that this would have been reduced, at least, in some way. It seems funny because, for example, if you think about how Finnwatch works: it monitors, for example, that companies act socially responsiblely, and they have — how to say that work has to be impressive — very good examples of what they have done: when they have found somewhere that a certain kind of even child labour or something else has been used, and those things have been raised and then the problem has been removed, these are very good examples of how it works. Even so, I would see that we have placed them in an extremely difficult situation. This was indeed in the debate. I also share this amazement with the representatives of the opposition as to why the Committee on Foreign Affairs, one of its main tasks and themes is development cooperation, did not become so important in that regard. But I would also like to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs stated that there is no conflict between Finnfund's activities and UN and non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u121	Madam President! I would like to point out, in particular, that the Finnish peacekeeping forces and peacekeeping missions are truly unique, respected, of high quality and desirable. As far as our development cooperation is concerned, we can say that these certain things that Finland does are very good. Maybe that's why it hurts that now we're making the time, I'd like to say, kind of like a hasty big decision. This timetable, with which these have been implemented, is also very fast, and there is not much humanity in it anymore. That is the difference I wanted to make, Mr President, between this Finnfund and our development cooperation, that development cooperation goes straight to the pain point, that it is building schools, kindergartens, that is helping, creating a different new opportunity, that is going to dig wells, care for orphans, that is what this is doing. Finnfund is something else. Everyone can visit their website. They set up businesses in China, for example, the strongest economy in the world. It does raise a few questions about me at the moment: GDP growth of 7% this year and in previous years, an average of around 10%. They are setting up investment companies, they are setting up banks, and they are doing something quite different than what our development organisations are doing. That is why this shift from this NGO activity to financial activity is such that I guess that perhaps the Members of Parliament are not all on the map how big this change really is. I myself have been involved in projects that build wells in India. It's worth 10,000 euros. There's a lot of wells. In orphanage work with 4500 orphans, schools and other things are built for them. It will then take some tens of thousands of euros. We are making huge progress in the whole region. Now that we are thinking of these things among ourselves, that these organisations are being deprived of the conditions for action, then we are talking about something really important, radical change of direction, and it would be wonderful and I hope that, although today, this will certainly not change anything, that this debate can continue and that we could later, even next year, correct this great injustice and error that is happening here. I would also like to say that, in fact, here too, we could have kept these people at work by means of internal transfers, by targeting them differently, and then, if we have to operate, give them a little time to adapt to the way in which these cuts are made. I hope that representatives will be able to visit these Finnfund pages where these project descriptions are. There are many good projects there, but it is mainly a Finnish export product and export activity. Again: When the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, was here, he was probably not aware that Finland would cut the money out of eight UN organisations. Yes, I wonder what the U.N. Ambassador of Finland can explain at the dinners and various parties, blushing, when Finland is stepping aside from the whole international debate, where we have been truly famous. Although the Finns of Peru feel that it is very important to them that this development and change of priorities take place, I would consider this fairness and these commitments that we have made internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u122	Madam President! A little bit of figures for this development cooperation: Central government development expenditure is estimated at EUR 809.4 million in 2016. This represents around 0.8% of gross national income. The figure was 0.6 per cent in 2014, i.e. at the same level as Germany. A total of EUR 498 million is proposed for the actual development cooperation item, which is approximately EUR 300 million less than 2015. The largest cuts in euro are directed towards multilateral cooperation. The focus does not shift to Finnfund, a financial investment company. EUR 140 million has been allocated to it. In relation to the whole, a small cut of EUR 4.8 million is proposed for humanitarian aid in Finland, and its relative share of our development budget is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u123	Madam President! This representative's work sometimes takes people around the world, and whenever you're around the world, you can visit the Finnish delegation there, whether it's a consulate or an embassy or something. And quite a few places have become such a message that — our foreign representatives have said — it would be good if Finland had some kind of scholarship system, that is, the Finnish State, to select and support students who would come to study in Finland. Of course, everyone can go to Finland and try to study, and there are channels for that, but I am referring to a very specific procedure in which we would make a certain choice and in this way we would also implement foreign policy. I believe that the development of such a procedure for Finland could also lead to a long-term improvement in the reputation and influence of our country abroad. Many major powers, other countries are doing this a lot, I think, Sweden too. Now that we are talking about this development cooperation, as a Member of Parliament for the second term, I can say that there is always a feeling here that the money is not enough, and unfortunately the small amount is now being budgeted for next year. In my opinion, when dealing with scarce resources, we need to think carefully about how to use them. And at least in that business, it is very common to focus really carefully and focus on something that you can do and then do it as well as possible. I think this Finnish education is of high quality. In particular, monitoring the situation in developing countries and reading various reports could have a significant impact on the literacy of girls and women. And so I propose that we consider the possibility of focusing more on our development cooperation resources on the construction of schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u124	Madam President! Still enough of that development aid to have to dig up that text in the Evening Sanomat less than a year ago. The Foreign Affairs Counsellor, the retired Ambassador Matti Kääriäinen, wrote a book about this and criticized this current system quite harshly. He has therefore worked for more than 40 years in various development cooperation activities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and various organisations. He says — of course this is his own opinion, but I now have a strong belief in that, with such a hard experience — that the beneficiaries are mainly the rich helper countries and the elite of developing countries. He also tells us that this poverty has not changed at all, that extreme poverty in the most important area of development aid in sub-Saharan Africa has not decreased. He even says that poverty has increased despite the aid of a trillion dollars. So Finland's share of this trillion dollars is quite small. I think that Finnfund is all right in itself, it coordinates the money and at the same time can also make impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u125	Mr President! As a comment, the line changes when the authorities change. That's what democracy is. I have listened a little bit to this debate on development aid cuts. We cannot cure the whole world, but we must reject something, we cannot help everyone. The opposition's auction on the amendment to this key point is amazing. Who's gonna play 190 million, who's gonna scream 330 million, where's the limit? Everyone understands that every million is debt money. We're making a transfer of funds from our own children around the world. The opposition believes that nothing should be saved, but with the other hand you are not proposing any reduction in the cost of immigration, which is forced to increase by hundreds of millions, perhaps more than a billion in all. At the same time, you would add hundreds of millions to the cost of development aid when you talk about the 0.7% target. How dare you? Is this the message you want to deliver to a people who have to compromise on their own? Let those who want to pay voluntarily. Tax resources are mainly intended for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u126	Mr President! Congressman Ronkainen told me about this book. I hope he also read the criticism of what was in the book, and when this writer, of course, has certainly been in the early 40 years of his career, there are many of these stories. But that is why our development cooperation has been developed over the years, it has been subject to a wide range of impact assessments, targeted and targeted specifically at the most vulnerable. The fact that it is done with a great deal of non-governmental organisations has actually been a guarantee of this, and it has also increased its effectiveness, because, as has already been pointed out above, NGOs there also do a great deal of voluntary work and thus increase the contribution. This opinion of the committee states that irregularities have involved around 1 to 2 per cent of the funds each year. This is a very small part. Of course, it has to be brought to zero, but very few actions reach such low percentages.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u127	Madam President! This book — of course it is his right to write this critical speech, but now that we are looking at UN statistics worldwide, the world's poverty has decreased, and it is thanks to all the rich countries, and I find it wonderful if Finland does not shoulder this international solidarity responsibility. 0.7% of this country is not going to go bankrupt; yes, they are completely different when they do. And again, President-in-Office, the fact that this debate has, of course, been important here. It is also a little worrying that we are putting the children of Finland against the children of developing countries, as it were. Yes, as a nation, like all rich countries, we have this shared responsibility for world poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u128	President! The most important phenomenon of our time in history may be that history will write about our time that more than others will be the truth that in these decades absolute poverty in the world has been reduced by more than a billion people. After all, it may be something in the big picture of mankind that will draw attention to. In the spirit of good government cooperation, in its name, I would like to say that this composition of government is not the reason why such a cut has taken place in development cooperation appropriations, but because of the situation in the Finnish economy. Finland has simply not had the opportunity to take on more foreign debt in order to meet the objectives of the commitments we have declared our commitment to achieving the UN targets of 0.7% GDP. And this is the spirit of the government that is also in the government program. I know that because I have been writing it myself, and I also know that Prime Minister Holker's government is the only one in the history of Finland when we reached the 0.7 GDP limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u129	Mr President! It has to be, when this debt burden in Finland was mentioned and the suffering of the people, that the representative asks where do you think that the people currently suffer the most: the amount of debt found in the budget book or the cuts that this government is currently making with regard to medical and travel expenses or increases in customer service fees or reductions in social security. Then I think that this current situation as an asylum seeker very well shows that it is not possible for Finland to close down and imagine that it is possible for us here to make a policy that is not in any way affected by the situation in other countries, changes in the security situation, climate change or environmental disasters. In other words, I would also expect some kind of policy from the Finns, whether you want to help people on the spot or whether you want to help people here in Finland, or whether it is a question of not wanting to help people at all. Then again, to Mr Kopra: I think that these cuts to development cooperation also show that, although it is worth saving, it is sometimes important to discuss what a sensible austerity policy is, and that such drastic cuts are made so quickly, I do not think that a good austerity policy is a good one. This means that development cooperation projects will have to be discontinued. For example, it does not give NGOs any opportunity to prepare for the reduction in appropriations that is now being decided upon. In other words, I think that the way in which this policy is being implemented seems to me that within the government there is indeed such a principled negative view of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u130	Mr President! In answer to Mr Andersson: If I wanted to crystallize the line of the Finns, perhaps it could briefly be that the Finns of Finland do not want to throw money into Kankkula well. In other words, we have always called for development aid to be effective and also to be sustainable, because it has been studied that it is precisely in the performance that it has not been sustainable enough. In fact, it has also become critical that these Finnish projects have not been so well evaluated, but there is always improvement in that. After all, the situation must be taken as it is, and although Finnfund also said in our expert consultation that it is a small challenge for them to really have such a big raise at once, we must really hope now — and that is the international trend — that we will look for different ways of doing that help in such a way that it really would be impressive. Indeed, the Paris Declaration on this strengthening of aid, and then the Accra Operational Programme, which is associated with it, have addressed this same problem. As Mr Ronkainen mentioned earlier, it is quite true that that money has indeed been wasted, and that is not what we, as Finns, want under any circumstances. Finally, I would like to say that the expectations are now high with regard to Finnfund, and it is indeed hoped that these companies will provide jobs and thus real sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u131	Mr President! Every time I hear this phrase that we are responsible for something, I ask the question: answer to whom, and answer why? So what is our responsibility to anyone other than the Finnish people who has chosen us here? I'd like to know that. Every time I hear this argument, I ask this question, but I have never received an answer. Maybe now I can. My question is: are we so rich? We have a deficit in the budget for many years in a row, a debt burden of 100 billion shortly, if not now. Are we a rich country? We are always taking development aid as a debt, we have already taken many billions of dollars in the past and we are taking more this year. The asylum crisis is a very bad argument in this area of development aid. It has already started much earlier than these surgeries are going to take place. After all, surgery will not be completed until tomorrow morning, and the asylum crisis has already been escalated much earlier. The opposition's highest offer for this increase in development aid is about double that of this much-speaked change in the housing allowance for pensioners. There is no point in saying that these things cannot be compared, because they are in the same budget. There is only one tax authority in Finland, there is only one budget. If anyone can tell us about the other budget where the money can be taken from, let him tell you. I've only heard of one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u132	Madam President! That the Finns do not want to help anyone: Yes, we want to help, it is not up to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u135	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä: Finland has a wide range of citizens. Some Finns do not want to do development cooperation, and they will probably vote for Mr Mäkelä. But my constituents want to do development cooperation, and they will vote for me, and I am responsible to these Finnish citizens. Yes, it's very simple. Now this must have opened up at once, that Finland is such a special country, there are many people here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u136	Section 29 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u137	Mr President! On behalf of the section, I would like to say the following. First of all, in general terms: Public sector adjustment measures significantly reduce the administrative resources of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The committee is concerned about the impact of savings, which are widely targeted at higher education, research and culture from early childhood education to higher education. There is a risk that savings will contribute to the loss of the human capital on which the success of Finnish society is based. The Committee considers it important that savings are targeted so that they do not undermine the core activities of education and education and their development. The competitiveness of our country has always been based on knowledge and the high added value of production, and the growth in Finland's well-being and success will continue to depend on education, skills and education. Therefore, even in a tense economic situation, care must be taken not to undermine the quality of education in the long term or to marginalise some young people. Therefore, the overall impact of savings decisions needs to be assessed and monitored. The Committee notes that, despite the savings in the economy, a total of EUR 300 million will be allocated to the key project of knowledge and education over three years, of which EUR 237 million will be allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The committee makes a proposal for a statement: "The Committee expects the government to closely monitor the impact and timing of the reduction of savings and compensation for early childhood education, basic education, secondary education, higher education and research, in general and in relation to the reforms to be undertaken, and to ensure that the adverse effects on the quality of education and research are minimised and that development work can well continue." Then, Mr President, to these main areas. Start with education and early childhood education: The committee heard a long time about the importance of early childhood education and its quality, and according to research data, the early age of a child is crucial for the development of self-esteem and of knowledge and social skills and provides the basis for life-long development. Good early childhood education thus provides a solid basis for education, knowledge and education and, in the long term, Finland’s success. The integration of immigrants can also be achieved, especially through early childhood education. In this reform, the committee draws attention to the change in group sizes to the ratio 1/13 and to the monitoring of these reforms in general. Regarding basic education, the committee notes that the central government shares of basic services in 2016 will not be cut, but cuts in previous years and the lack of index adjustments will weaken the financing base of municipalities. In addition, EUR 30 million for the reduction of the group size of basic education will disappear, as will EUR 15 million for the improvement of the quality of education. The Committee considers it important that the top project of the Government Programme should reform quality in schools, i.e. the learning environment and pedagogy, and promote the digitisation of education. The committee also welcomes the fact that: The mobile school programme is expanding into a national project. We have also drawn attention in committee to the strong growth of asylum seekers, and the reforms that the government will bring are good. The supplementary draft budget includes additional resources for preparatory education for basic education and also a change that funding for education and culture can also temporarily take into account funding for preparatory education for basic education, even for pupils who study for a shorter period of time. In addition, it is noted from club activities that next year the funding of club activities for schoolchildren will be EUR 2.9 million, which is EUR 4.4 million less than this year. That is unfortunate. The committee adds EUR 4 million to this item, EUR 2 million in grants to improve the quality of basic education and EUR 2 million in grants to club activities. In addition, state aid is given to organisations to support Finnish schools, the Summer High School Society, the Remote School for Travellers maintained by the People's Education Society and the club activities of Christian schools. Mr President! First of all, the Committee on Vocational Education and Training notes that the main project of the Government Programme aimed at reforming secondary vocational education and training is a good one, but that the timetable is problematic, as the resources for vocational education and training will be significantly reduced by EUR 190 million already in 2017, but the restructuring of the training will not take effect until the beginning of 2018. In addition, the Committee draws attention to the decline in apprenticeship and adult education and to the end of the guarantee increase in investment in 2016. For this reason, the committee adds EUR 100000 to Article 30 of adult education as a contribution to the development of the activities of the National Institute for the Great Book and to several advisory organisations. Mr President! As a committee on higher education, we say that a total of EUR 3.2 billion will be proposed for higher education and research in 2016, which is EUR 8.3 million less than in the current year. The savings target universities, universities of applied sciences and the Academy of Finland. There is also a significant reduction in Tekes' powers of assistance. The committee is concerned that these cuts undermine the basis of knowledge and the prerequisites for long-term and high-quality research and also have a negative impact on the future prospects of young people interested in scientific careers and possibly contribute to the search for researchers abroad. The committee stresses that Finland is well known for its high level of expertise and can only survive and succeed in the future with a high level of knowledge and education that will create a basis for new growth. However, the committee welcomes the key project to strengthen cooperation between universities and industry in order to commercialise innovation. State funding for university activities. We paid particular attention to the fact that the appropriation for this item is nearly EUR 80 million less than in the current year. For this reason, however, since the expert consultation, we have noted that these proposed savings, as individual measures, do not pose a significant financial risk to university activities, but the combined effect of austerity measures is significant given the cuts made in previous years. This is why a high level of education and research must be secure and can only be done by reforming structures and working methods. The committee also pays particular attention to the position of the University of Helsinki and notes that when making savings, it is necessary to ensure that universities do not become unequal in terms of funding. Mr President! Just briefly on the subject of art and culture, first of all, the committee considers it good that culture has also become a top priority project, thus improving the accessibility of art and culture. Otherwise, the resources of art and culture will be reduced. The savings amount to EUR 13 million compared to the current year, even though the main project is EUR 10 million, and thus the financial situation of the administrative agencies is limited. We drew the same attention to the creation of a system of incentives in the audiovisual sector as the Parliamentary Committee on Education, which is why the committee makes its own statement: 'The Parliament requires that the government urgently clarify the need and the legal and financial conditions for developing a competitive audiovisual production incentive system in Finland.' There is also a small amount of funding for museums and access payments for raising lending fees, and there is also a proposal for a statement. Finally, with regard to the exercise action, there is no austerity in the exercise budget, and also with regard to the youth action, the big issue in the committee's deliberations was the youth guarantee and the resources it has to provide. In this respect, the committee will add EUR 4 million to this item.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u138	Mr President! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament for its good cooperation. It has been a difficult time for all of us, and if one could describe this year in any way, one could at least describe it as a difficult and surprising year. This year it was known that the economic situation was tight, but what we did not know back then was that this asylum seeker situation will take up a considerable amount of our time and require a new kind of thinking and also a new attitude from us. Next year we will also be able to predict challenges in relation to the same issues, namely the difficult economic situation, on the one hand, responding to the situation of asylum seekers, and next year will be a big year in terms of the way in which people who come to Finland and find asylum can be integrated into Finnish society, and what training solutions can be used to ensure that everyone gets proper paths and active paths to work and know-how to build their own future. On the one hand, it challenges the immigrant population, or those who come, as well as our education system, and we, the Finns in Finland, to find solutions to these challenges. But on the budget: In building this up, we assume that high-quality education, high-quality early childhood education and free of charge and the best education in the world will continue to be the foundation of our society and that Finland will only be able to cope with the difficult situation in such a way that, despite our faith in knowledge and civilisation and difficult cuts, we will boldly reform the Finnish education system to meet future skills needs better and to reform this Finnish society. With the help of the Strategic Government Programme, we will reform Finnish education with a number of reforms and accelerate permanent changes with EUR 300 million in growth efforts over the next three years to support the rise in knowledge and education levels and better learning outcomes. In the future, every child will be guaranteed the right to early education 20 hours a week, although in this future budget we will also have to take austerity measures and reduce the standard for early childhood education in the municipalities. We consider it important that, while we have to increase the ratio between children and adults in early childhood education among children over the age of three, the group sizes of the smallest children, i.e. children under the age of three, are not increased. In addition, a programme for the development of early childhood education will be launched next year, and the Committee also commended the fact that 120 will be able to increase the number of kindergarten teachers, which will certainly have a positive impact in the long term on the development of the quality of early childhood education. In addition, as part of fiscal adjustment measures, the fees for day care and morning and afternoon activities will be increased in order to strengthen the finances of municipalities. The related proposals will be coming to Parliament before next autumn. With the key project funding included in the 2016 draft budget, we are reforming our Finnish comprehensive school for the future. It will take place by strengthening new pedagogy, new learning environments and digital learning and by building such a path that renews and keeps the Finnish comprehensive school at the forefront of the world and boldly brings to our children and young people new skills and new skills that will be used in the labour market of the future, which will certainly highlight, for example, a wide range of thinking skills, critical thinking skills, social interaction skills, mastering large-scale entities and also digital skills that are a part of the general education of the future comparable to literacy. New curricula will be introduced in our primary schools next autumn, and our top project will hit us in excellent time next year. In vocational education and training, we have launched as one of the leading projects the reform of secondary vocational education, which is actually reforming the whole of our secondary vocational education into a more knowledge-based, student-oriented entity. It will reform legislation, governance, funding, policies and voluntary networks, and it will be a very important, major challenge for next year when the new model is being built. I hope, of course, that Parliament will also be welcomed in this regard. Increase individual study paths and workplace learning and address the challenges of the future. This situation of asylum seekers must also be taken into account when designing vocational training reform. Higher education The aim is to promote higher education profiles and to achieve a clearer division of labour, to strengthen mutual cooperation and to strengthen cooperation with research institutions. Obstacles to education exports have already been dismantled and dismantled, thanks to Parliament. We will continue this work at all levels of education. Skills will be brought together to become more competitive concentrations
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u139	Now we're going to the debatable phase. I would ask those of you who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u140	Mr. Speaker! Mr Kiuru presented similar observations in that regard to what the committee had previously taken in its own opinion. It is true that the savings are visible and belong in that field, that is quite clear. We are living in challenging times, while a lot of positive things are happening in different parts of the world, and that too should not be forgotten. Somehow I would like us to look a little further in this training debate. When you talk to a lot of teachers and go around all over Finland, there is a risk that the conversation will be just in that day and in those savings, as it often is. What do you think, Minister, about going a little further in this debate and looking beyond that 2019? After all, there are major challenges in the Finnish educational field, and working life is changing. Our view should not be a mere view of oblivion, but should also have the courage to look a little further. I believe that this would even be a place for parliamentary work now that the set-aside plan no longer exists and there will be no longer long lines of education to look at together. I believe that life after 2019 and the big solutions after 2019
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u141	Mr President! This is how Finland succeeds, with knowledge and innovation. It is clear, as the Vice-President also said, that we must look beyond the periods of government and through education we will build up for generations, so that there is no doubt that there is reason to have this type of common reflection, what the education system of the future is and what objectives should be set. As such, it is a good situation at the moment that, although we have bad savings and they are not easy for anyone, at the same time we also have the work of building the future: the key projects, which target 300 million precisely to those that will then produce even better in the future. The Minister also mentioned the issue of education exports. That, too, is one good example of one who focuses on that future, about five years away, when we hope to see something new there, I'll take it up here at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u142	Mr President! After all, it must be said that the Minister for Education and Culture has fine words, but even when they are in complete contradiction with this report by the Committee on Budgets. One of the things that has been recorded here is that the Committee on Finance is concerned about the long-term impact of major cuts in education and research on the level of knowledge. So they will affect the short term, but they will also affect the longer term, and frankly I would have liked to have hoped that, now that the government has withdrawn and blocked some of its proposals, these savings and cuts would at least have been moderated in view of the size of these training savings. The Social Democrats will present:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u143	Mr President! It is a very unthankful task, I believe, to be the Minister of Education at the moment, so that I must say, Madam Minister, that you have the strength for this difficult task at the moment. Severe savings claims and requirements
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u146	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the Minister for the HundrED project, which has just been announced, which aims at the future of education globally, to collect 100 fine projects. This is truly significant worldwide. It is great that it leaves Finland, and it is great that the Ministry of Education and Culture is also involved in it. But then, when you look at these cuts, I think it is important to look at them precisely through the most vulnerable people. Only then will we really understand what these are, as it were, the biggest, worst effects, the biggest risks we can take. If we look at subjective day care and there at the most vulnerable families, what about now, when we start to value it or as if it needs to be applied for, will the causes of these families suffice in the future? Or who is the one who determines it, or who is the one who suddenly says to a family that your arguments are no longer sufficient? And what are the possible consequences? Or when we create this kind of threshold, so easily happens the fact that man
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u147	Mr President! This has been a difficult and rough fall for all of us, I'm sure. I think it is worth noting that this autumn, the Constitutional Committee has on a number of occasions called for the government to carry out an overall study of how all the various cuts affect children, education and the possibility of maintaining legal activities in general. This has happened when the Committee on Education has dealt with the law on early childhood education and the cuts and other weakenings affecting universities and universities of applied sciences. So it can be said that we are now moving to extreme limits with regard to surgery. You can no longer operate without giving up some content. In my opinion, this is the conclusion that is
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u148	Mr President! Certainly — whether you look behind red glasses or whatever — there is such an ideological echo that the ability of children in just the less well-off parts to train themselves in such a way that the whole of this national brain capacity can produce that well-being will be weakened. From the point of view of higher education, research and development, which is of particular importance to us, this policy, which the government has adopted, certainly runs counter to the fact that we are the nation that, by its own power, can bring and create development in such a way that we have special opportunities through education. And I must remind you that the committee's report, as Mr Gustafsson said, is a serious concern, and that is in contradiction with what the minister has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u149	Mr President! I have to admit, even from this board of directors, that it has not been a very easy autumn — I do not think the Minister has either. I too very much wish the Minister the strength to do this. But there are good things. For example, this key project in knowledge and education, EUR 300 million, includes the development of new learning environments and the introduction of digital material into primary schools. Savonlinna Training School is a very good example of this in Finland, where, seven years ago, iPads were introduced. There, students have moved from passive consumers to active producers, where media criticism is also a very important value and part of the whole school work. There are many such good models in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u150	Mr President! In this section, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we must put the cat on the table. Now we have to put that cat on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u153	Mr President! It is absolutely true and serious that these cuts in the area of OKM are extremely painful. That is why we in the Committee on Budgets made a statement which requires strict monitoring of the impact of these savings. That is why it was stated in a group statement from the parliamentary group in the Assembly that if there is room for manoeuvre, then, in this area of education, the government really must see that we do not eat that quality of education and the quality of research, but that structural reforms must indeed be taken forward. I think it is important that we in the Committee on Budgets, as it were, saved the group budget for basic education. We combined two articles and said that this money could also be used for teacher training, and we added EUR 2 million to this development of the quality of basic education. The clubs received EUR 2 million so that it would be possible for every child to have a hobby through comprehensive school, and also for workshop activities and outreach youth work there was additional funding. The essential thing is that every child gets a good basic education and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u154	Mr President! Just as Mr Sarkomaa said, this is how we increased the appropriations for basic education in the Section for Science and Education, including those relating to the Youth Guarantee. Indeed, savings apply to all major categories, and I accept it myself, because we can no longer make such huge amounts of debt in Finland against young people and children. But it is true that we in the section and committee have had to struggle with these savings. That is why it is important that, when these key projects are here too, which do not compensate for the savings but are important in themselves, savings are now being monitored very closely. Can you, Minister, as if with manual guidance now look at these savings, for example, towards secondary education in relation to these reforms, which in themselves are necessary to minimise these harmful effects, on the one hand, to take advantage of the good effects?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u155	Mr President! The Coalition Party has recently signaled that if there is room for manoeuvre, it must be used for training. This government, in its early years, has cancelled... No government has previously withdrawn as many decisions as this government has.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u156	Mr. Speaker! At least this government has not yet voted against its own proposals in this Chamber, as the previous government did,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u159	Mr President! These training cuts are truly regrettable, and no one wants to do these things, no government,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u162	Reply, President of the Section, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u163	Mr President! Yes, it is good that there is a debate on education policy, because when we lost some 10,000 jobs as a result of the structural change in Nokia, then the ministerial cars shuffled and wondered where these jobs will be re-created, but now that we are losing thousands of jobs, according to some estimates, more than 10,000 jobs in education and training as a result of these savings, then no ministerial car, the Minister of Education, but also the Minister of Labour, has gone anywhere to regret these savings. That is what I very much regret, and that is why this committee's report also contains a number of objections in the field of civilisation and science. That is why I think it is right to say that if some 13 million were saved last season from the University of Helsinki, this government base will save 100 million. That is why the measure is quite different. And now it is important to ask the Minister for Education: why were additional savings made over the savings which were heavily criticised by the other two government parties? And, as you yourself have said, education should no longer have been cut off. Why are these savings made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u164	Mr President! Over the years, I've probably hired several hundred academic graduates, and every year, the average age has just risen. The average age of graduates in Finland is between 3 and 4 years higher than in Europe. A lot of people get to go through a university or college world when they can sit. The university gets a reward for it, but sometimes it feels like the university could only be rewarded for those who complete their studies "in the prescribed time".
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u166	Mr President! For the information of Congressman Lehde, this is exactly what it is. It's good to update the information. Many times in this Chamber it has been said that cuts in education are a sad thing, a necessary thing and a coercive thing. It has been proven in this Chamber a few days ago that, for example, these kilometer payments are not the biggest lie in the autumn or humbugs, but could generate savings of EUR 140 million plus the EUR 58 million that our alternative adds. This has been calculated specifically through Parliament's information services. Are you prepared to take that unprofitable tax advantage, put it in education and cancel these training savings? You've been offered an alternative. Do you prefer to take the valueless tax advantage and make up for the savings in education? For once, I would like an answer to this. The second thing I have wondered about in the Section for Education and Science and in the Committee is this youth guarantee money. What's the number of the day when you've had the number of the VM, the number of the TEM,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u167	Mr President! Yes, I must say to the opposition, especially the Greens, that those kilometer money are very good enough. You offer that same word, the same sentence to cancel and compensate for all the savings the government makes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u170	Mr President! I would be quite sure that Mr Sarkomaa and the civilised bourgeois people who still exist in this Chamber would speak in another way if they did not have to defend the government's policy on education policy, which is simply bad, but you are trying to defend it. I would like to say that in the Greens' option the idea is to reform education: we are reforming primary schools, we are reforming secondary schools and higher education institutions, but the savings from restructuring would go towards improving the quality of education, improving research, keeping group sizes small, ensuring that the level of education would increase and And in your option you have first decided on a really wild and tough cut in government negotiations just above the budget book, looked at the figures and found that it would be nice to cut like this, we have this kind of upper goal, and cut now from education, when elsewhere was not invented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u173	Mr President! Mr Lindtman, I would remind you that during the last term of your government, you planned to limit the right to day care and increase the size of groups, but you gave it up because you had linked it to the compulsory quota for home care support and it would have cost between 100 and 150 million and would not have saved as it was intended. Mr President! Research, i.e. "wood and top for success": in terms of research funding, I would like the Ministry and the Minister to facilitate and clarify these search processes. It becomes a complaint all the time. It would achieve better results, could use the money for an important purpose. Then there's another thing. The committee has taken the view that payments linked to income such as day care should be on the way. What is the position of the ministry and the minister on this? It would have that income base, and it would also be fair. Finally, Mr President, we still have the problem today of having job vacancies, of having over 400,000 unemployed people, of having this problem of matching. I hope that this too will now be the subject of attention at the Ministry of Education and Culture. And there are trainings that can then
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u174	Given the current nature of the debate, I will now give the floor again to Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u175	Mr President! Indeed, during the last term of government, consideration was given to whether the right to day care could be restricted, and the demand of the Greens was to find out whether it would be economically sound at all. It was found that it is not even economically viable because it increases bureaucracy, and it was concluded that it will not be done. This government, for ideological reasons, wanted to do this surgery, even though experts in early childhood education feel that it is detrimental to the development of children, undermines the pedagogical capacity to develop the children most in need of support: young immigrants, young people living in families with less support. And then this bureaucracy will cause the problems in the municipalities that real savings will not come. I would like the government to rely on the information that has been studied and not to make bad decisions. I'm tired of the mantra. I'm tired of making bad decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u178	Mr President! Savings can also be made in many ways. I will come back to this when the left raised the issue of taking from the poor. In the case of afternoon activities, for example, it was stated that it is necessary to be free of charge in order to allow the low-income to participate. As far as immigrants are concerned, when we talk about early childhood education, we have also stated in the government's proposal that those with social needs — even if immigrants have a basis — will then be eligible for longer periods of early childhood education. The question is whether or not savings can be made in a good way and also in a fair way
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u181	Mr President! The government is a big fan of these top projects, and I have nothing against them. But even good top projects will not help if the resources are taken away from the basic functions. There is a very great contradiction between the lack of funding for most of the top education projects and the reduction of basic funding at the same time. In the name of major projects, it seems that the government is masking these cuts for development and renewal, but everyone can understand that if the huge savings in basic funding are realised, they will also undermine development. Many domestic and international experts have been very critical of these cuts and have found them to destroy future growth. Furthermore, Mr President, I think it is a really bad argument that, when we had to make the savings last season, we should make even greater savings in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u182	Mr President! President Kekkonen used to quote a saying that ‘if everyone got what they deserve, no one would survive that beating’. Perhaps more important than now to argue about who has operated on and how much it is to focus on what we could do better in this education. Of course, as has already been revealed here, it is difficult for all of us in education to make these cuts. In particular, vocational education and training is now to be taken forward a great deal and a historic reform of secondary vocational education and training is to be carried out. I would have asked the Minister now that the amending budget also increased funding for the preparation of the reform, in what situation is the preparation of this important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u183	At this stage, I will give the Minister the floor, three minutes from the place of his choice, and then we will see which points will be raised in greater detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u184	Mr President! In that sense, we are in the same boat that all parliamentary parties have been involved in the savings in education in recent years. During the previous term of the government, ministers Gustafsson and Kiuru made huge cuts in education, and in that work, Mr Niinistö was involved, along with Mr Lindtman, However, the difference with the last period is that cuts were made in the previous period, cut back on the basic funding, that is to say, the basic funding base, but it was not possible to implement structural development, structural reforms very much. I listed for myself: The second-degree reform was not done, you voted against your own motion here in Parliament. There was no progress in training exports. Despite good intentions and an excellent starting point, the Youth Guarantee did not work, according to the National Audit Office. The class-sharing reform in upper secondary school was ultimately unambitious and rather weak. We are now trying to correct this situation by starting the development of high school. There was no digital break-in in primary schools, so quite a few things were actually not done. There was a state of stagnation in the field of education during the last term of government. What we are doing now is that we in many sectors and, in fact, everywhere are putting things in order in Finland. Why are these surgeries being made? Well, because the economy is not growing in Finland, there are not enough ambitious reforms, we are getting into debt, we are eating from our children. We have a duty to ensure that, at the same time as we balance the Finnish economy, we also carry out reforms to build the foundations of the future. Is my role as Minister of Education easy in the midst of these surgeries? I can tell you: there is not, but nevertheless I see quite a lot of beginnings that, as they grow, will be able to renew our education to a new level. I believe that in the longer term it will be remembered that we launched the historic reform of vocational education and training. We carry out key projects, bring new pedagogy to comprehensive school, new learning environments, digital learning, an hour of exercise per day. We are launching a teacher education development programme, we are undertaking a reform of the upper secondary school through experiments, we are undertaking structural development, clarification of the division of labour, the reform of clearer profiles in higher education, we are making stronger centres of expertise, we are building the basis for the future that Finland needs in this very difficult situation. We can concentrate on discussing individual savings, and in this Chamber you will find an opponent for every austerity decision made by this government, yes, it has been seen during this budget week and earlier. But what I would like to see discussed here is how Finland will emerge from this difficult situation and how we will reform education from these challenging starting points to meet the skills needs of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u185	Mr President! These cuts throughout this entire educational cycle, from early childhood education to university teaching and research, will feed on sustainable economic growth, the development of exports, the creation of new high productivity jobs and the change in the life-cycle structure. The SDP has presented a clear alternative to its alternative budget. There are proposals on economic growth, investment. There are even cancellations from the training of these unjustified cuts and the way in which debt can be taken less and without raising the tax rate. But in addition to that, this government makes very serious mistakes when it divides Finnish society, by disparateling Finnish society from those young children. The Education Trade Union notes that those with learning difficulties and poor language skills are the most affected. An individual child or young person will continue to receive less support from a skilled teacher. Also teaching hours and student places Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u186	Mr President! I shall take this opportunity to comment on the previous speech. It was mentioned here, if I remember correctly, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said about all these cuts in education and early childhood education that it is no longer possible to cut down on quality. I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I would like to remind you that there were several legislative proposals on university law and then there was early childhood education. They were made into different reflections, and it was not quite as straightforward as that. In the case of early childhood education, for example, the situation is that it is optional for the municipality and, on the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the primary responsibility for care lies with the parents and that society helps in this. We thought it important that all children maintain this 20 - hour period of early childhood education. The funding of the university was once again a question of the university's sovereignty and its limits. There's a lot of different statements here. It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u187	Mr President! In research, development and innovation policy, the only guarantee of quality is not an increase in money. We heard experts from the Committee on the Future, among other things. We urgently need a new innovation strategy updated at this time, where we need to look at the components of the innovation chain in a whole new way, find new ways of working, new ways of working together and also update financial instruments. This is the opinion of experts, and I hope that this innovation strategy update will take place and that the addition of money bags there will not be the only chance of getting a better innovation strategy raising Finland. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u188	Mr President! With all due respect to the Minister, I hope that the Minister will be here to answer questions regarding next year's budget, the policy of this government and the decisions that are now being taken and not to talk about what ministers Kiuru and Gustafsson have done in the past. It is certainly true that there is a need for reform in education. Here we are in the process of developing society, also developing education, but what this government is doing is certainly not a structural development. If we are talking about structural reform, structural reform is, after all, about changing ways of doing things, changing structures and making savings. What is this government doing? First of all, you take the money from the second level, but also from the higher education level. First they take the money and the money and then they say, "Renew and develop."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u189	Mr President! Contrary to the arguments put forward by the Minister for Education, these major weaknesses in education cannot be regarded as necessary in any objective way or on grounds. They are, of course, purely political decisions from you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u192	Mr President! It must be admitted that cuts in education are difficult, especially when it comes to young and small children. Now that two major changes have been made to early childhood education, I would like to see attention paid now to the development of quality on the education side, and the opening has been made to increase the number of students by 120. But I would like to ask the Minister: are we also on this side, even though there is no main project for this, in the process of reforming education in early childhood education? I think that would be very necessary. At the same time, I would also pay attention to universities. We talk a lot about research here, but I also think it is very important that universities and universities of applied sciences have quality education. And even though universities have their own autonomy, I would also like to see ideas on how we would develop our teaching in universities and universities of applied sciences.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u193	Värderade Talman! The water's coming out of the goose's back. That's all you can say. It asked for the help of the opposition in meeting these challenges, but at the same time it must be said that, in this case, the government itself has created this challenge by prioritising it differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u194	Mr President! Minister, now that the Committee on Finance has allocated 9 million additional appropriations for the development of the education sector, among other things, and for many other tasks, I would have liked to ask whether, now, for example, this EUR 2 million for the quality of education is being mobilised, whether it is being considered creatively, as well, that it is not just going to go to the group size fund mentioned by Mr Sarkoma. This is not enough to improve the size of groups across the country, In other words, I would have liked to ask how this money can be used as effectively as possible, because we have the will to ensure that the money is effectively delivered, as well as the money from the workshop and detective work, which is worth EUR 4 million, the third sector is involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u195	Mr President! I have barked so many times here about government cuts in education and research and education that now I want a little praise for the government parties. It's about exercise. The report has clearly stated that immobility is a major economic and public health problem. It causes some EUR 2 billion per year and, frankly, I am glad that when the Parliament’s sports club celebrated its 70th anniversary, it presented such a challenge to the sports field match in Sweden, which is intended to increase physical activity, low-threshold physical activity, and to create movement in Finland and both countries, the representatives of the committee’s government groups welcomed this and provided a little additional symbolic funding. I hope that the Minister will take the catch from this too, and will see to it that this challenge is also taken up in the Ministry, and that this campaign will be carried out and that the Finns will be able to move and learn more and more about physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u196	Mr President! The economic situation in our country is difficult and therefore part of it is also subject to education. Some of the decisions taken by the previous government will also be directed at this year and the following years, when the savings now being made will be more difficult. I would draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, we can afford to reform the content of education. In my own experience, cooperation between polytechnics and universities of applied sciences, not to mention secondary education with working life, is not the best possible. So now is a good time to look to the future how we develop the content of education and then combine it with the requirements of working life. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is going to look for new ways of transferring and linking the funding of secondary education with the reform of education, because even now, for example, at Päijät-Häme, we have moved from 15 training points to 5 training points.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u197	Mr President! I have to say that the mood here is kind of like a parent-teacher night: fathers and mothers and teachers get hot, and not for no reason at all. Cutting out of education already meets the historical scale, and especially when the elections and even the May Day speeches promised the other one, it is quite understandable that there is great disappointment. Cutting off education is, above all, cutting our futures, our children, education, knowledge and so on. But now I ask the minister about mold schools: During the last government and also under the SDP's own option, money has been presented for home repairs. How's the home remodeling of this government? Children, teachers, school staff certainly deserve a clean, healthy learning environment. Does the government have a purse for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u198	Mr President! There was a mention here of parenting. In my parents ’ evenings — I have kept them very many — we did not concentrate on moaning, we focused on how we can do things with the resources we have in the best possible way. For example, this limitation of day care — which has been very much discussed — by restricting day care to a child who already has a nurse at home, seems to me to be a good decision. Who may object to receiving treatment as needed? Another good decision is that students outside the EU and the EEA should be charged a fee. A Finnish taxpayer cannot always be a payer. In addition, the accessibility of art and culture will be improved and the youth guarantee will be developed into a model in which responsibility for young people in need of support rests with one body. It would be nice to hear more about this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u199	Mr President! It is just hypocrisy to claim that small-scale projects would replace the massive cuts you make throughout the entire knowledge and education sector. The government parties are now saying that the effects must be monitored, but what does that do? So, in the next few years, you'll be watching how our skills are falling apart. Do you think you should have done those impact assessments in advance? It's just a little extra money. There's no point squirming about it. Our education system is facing really great challenges. A growing number of children and young people are in need of different levels of support. There are more and more concentration problems. We have a very high level of teacher competence, but that alone is not enough if the size of the group is really large. Differences between schools in children on the one hand and schools in different regions on the other are growing. Nevertheless, you are now reducing the budget for equality in education. It is a very high risk of achieving equality in education and training. How will you secure it in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u200	Mr President! I guess we don't have to stress how unpleasant and difficult these surgeries are anymore. Even in the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, when we have dealt with these budget laws in the autumn, there has been a feeling of sadness here and there. But these must be done now, and the key thing, as the Minister also said, is that reforms, cuts, savings will be made in such a way that it will suffer as little as possible from nuclear activity, and that is why these structural reforms and their success are essential. But Mr Eloranta, who has just left, mentioned among other things that these key projects will not replace these budget cuts. This is not the intention, they are not doing it, because these key projects are intended to support the reforms that are necessary and to develop our education sector. They target areas where this additional money is needed in order to create some new skills. Investing in teacher training;
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u201	Mr President! The Minister has just said that it is irresponsible merely to cut and not to reform the structures. I couldn't agree more. I just want to say that during the previous period there were government parties that were both cutting but also reforming structures until the last sitting, and the RKP was one of them, so not all parties lived up to that responsibility. President! In my opinion, the problem at the moment is that when we talk about these key projects and we have to reform them, we cannot reform enough that this reform and structural reforms in any way can. compensate for these surgeries. This is the problem. And then...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u204	Mr President! Vocational education and training is also known to be severely reduced, and cuts in so-called expensive sectors are of particular interest and concern there. In particular, training in the natural resources sector falls within this category due, inter alia, to equipment and buildings. This training is important precisely because, however, we have the bioeconomy as a leading project. This training is also provided in areas where young people are otherwise less likely to be employed in the region, for example. How, Minister, do you see the education in the natural resources sector? And second, I would like to ask you about the development of apprenticeship training for young people. What kind of debate is being held in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u205	Mr President! There is always bad political rhetoric in the past, but indeed after the last term of government it was said that the savings made, for example due to the reduction in the age groups, had already reached the end points, can no longer be cut off, quality is beginning to suffer, and that is why we Greens took up the election with the promise that there will be no more cuts in education,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u208	Mr President! Minister, you are calling for reforms and structural changes here, but you have approved last week that up to 17,000 vocational training places can be reduced. The actual structural reforms you are talking about will not be made until 2018. What is your logic in this matter, could you tell us? In practice, this means that some young people between the ages of 15 and 16 will have to move away from home to another place if they intend to obtain a secondary degree. This is not possible for everyone, as we know. At the same time, you have virtually abolished the Youth Guarantee, cut off the workshops, the outreach youth work, and we know at the moment that 85% of young people in the youth field do not have secondary qualifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u209	A few more speeches and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u210	Mr President! The opinion of the Assembly is that, as soon as the economy gives room, research and education must be re-invested. It's a clear choice in our party. Mr Adlercreutz, do you prefer cheese or development? The Government has chosen a policy of development and reform, and I think it will do so in such a way that as little damage as possible is done to the foundations of education and at the same time to build the future that we must do very intensively. Because we have a world in such a upheaval that we actually have no choice. To the left wing, you claim that we are different. Our goal is that every Finnish child will have free education from comprehensive school to higher education in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u211	Representatives Haatainen and Andersson, and then the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u212	Mr President! Now I have to say that this is the order of march backwards. Mr Lauslahti said here that investment in education and research will be made when it comes to better times. During the recession of the 1990s, a bold and far-reaching decision was taken. It was then decided to invest specifically in research and innovation and education. And what was the result? Growth, employment, jobs, and that is the fruit we have enjoyed until now. We are now cutting very hard from the university, university and research world. I talked to people at the University of Helsinki. They're terrified. There are cuts of EUR 100 million, a fifth of the basic funding is going on and the measures are under way. It is a real worry that our experts will disappear and the state of paralysis and universities will end up arguing over how to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u213	Mr President! I think it's a representative. Mr Kiljunen was just talking about the right thing, that is, why these decisions now being taken are not a structural reform. First of all, the marching order is wrong. The cuts will take place before then in legislation designed to guide this reform. You're taking this money away first. The second problem is that this measure is too massive, that is to say reduced, cut too much funding. It's not possible for any development. This simply means that there is a need to reduce the number of staff. Mr Lauslahti then asked if the cheese plan would be better. But, Congressman Lauslahti, what is your alternative to a cheese planer? Is it, for example, the abolition of the compensation for the pharmacy fee? Is it structural reform to take 30 million of the basic funding from one university at a time?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u214	Mr. Speaker! Mr Kiljunen criticised the fact that the increase in the number of young people looking for youth and workshop activities was too small for the committee. However, they are bigger than the Social Democrats in their own shadow budget,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u217	Mr President! I thank you for allowing me to answer this question. I am now putting one cat on the table, which the Minister did not react to, and I think that Mr Aalto asked one important question: what is the opinion of Parliament on the kind of activity that the section has faced, what did Mr Puumala here prove right? I would also like to say that I have never been involved in a work in which the section of the committee has been insured throughout the autumn, that the major sections of education, the Youth Guarantee, are not being cut at all, not at all. You know, we asked this many times, many times. The TEM's crews were put together to do this. Then we asked many times if these figures were correct. Finally, eventually, we finally received the latest figures from the Minister of Finance, and the fact is that the section thought it had put 4 million young people's guaranteed youth work in order to cut these youth savings in education away. This did not happen because 15 million have been cut in addition. We Social Democrats have increased over 20 million [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Now, however, MrWalker ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u220	Mr President! The clock is ticking and, in his presentation, the Minister wanted to talk about cultural issues as well. Firstly, I would like to say that, at the mouth of all the representatives of the government parties, there has been talk of these savings in education, that they are very regrettable, and this has been discussed throughout the autumn. Nobody's gonna be happy about this. But with regard to culture, I would like to ask the Minister about the film production incentive system: at what stage is the possible organisational reform of the Film Foundation taking place? And the second question I would like to ask is this digitalization of the magazine photo archive, the digitisation of the photo archive, has its effectiveness been at the best level? Another million have been sunk there, and now, for example, a quarter of a million people have been digitised to the archives of the picture sisters, and 3,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u221	Mr President! With regard to the Youth Guarantee money, the Section for Education and Science did receive a report on these figures. Perhaps there was some confusion about the fact that the definition of the Youth Guarantee has been changed, i.e. it is being developed in the direction of the Community guarantee, and therefore the comparability with the figures of the previous government may have been somewhat difficult. Of course, with a stick in the eye, which remembers the old ones, but still the Parliament has not received the figures from when you were Minister, Mr Kiuru, where the money for basic education went, for example, when it was decided that it would be three weekly hours per week for freedom of choice. So it is good to say that it is sometimes difficult for Parliament to obtain information, but here we have the figures — thanks to the Minister and the Government. To sum up, the ministers of the previous government cut with two hands, both hands had scissors, now the minister has scissors in one hand, but the other hand is developing training. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u222	Reply to Mr Korhonen. The section president will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u223	Mr President! Of course, even from the last period, it would have been expected that major development decisions could have been taken on education, not only massive and drastic cuts in local government contributions, which obviously also affect the organisation of municipal education. However, despite this unfortunate overall economic picture, it is certainly positive that one of these key government projects is specifically aimed at knowledge and education. The question is how, in the midst of these cuts in education, to avoid that they do not undermine other key projects, and I am referring here to the bioeconomy raised by Mrs Katainen. However, there is a need for multidisciplinary training to safeguard development, but it is extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of a specific question relating to the scope of a section, to the President of a section or to the Group leader, I shall, as a general rule, give the President of the section the floor first, and that is why Mr Kiuru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u225	Mr President! This is important now. If we ask today how much the government will invest in the Youth Guarantee next year, unfortunately we cannot be quite sure of that. I have received a separate letter from the Ministry of Finance, and this means that, contrary to what Mr Puumala said here, 14.6 million will be cut from these major categories of education. This latest information was not available to the committee or, of course, to the section, because it has come since we heard Minister Stubb. That is why we have Stubb's figures, we have the figures in the budget book and we have the figures from the sector of the Ministry of Finance and we have the figures from the Ministry of Education, which have been revised several times with the Ministry of Education. That's why I'm a little disappointed in this. Minister, when we are preparing such important legislative projects, if the Ministry of Finance has changed the timing, it would have been important to know this autumn. That's why I find it humiliating.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u226	Reply to Mr Puumala and then to the Minister one minute on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u227	Mr. Speaker! This funding of the Youth Guarantee is a little confused by the fact that there are several different articles, from which the term "Youth Guarantee" has been compiled: the Youth Guarantee for Education, the Youth Guarantee for Vocational Education and Training, the Youth Guarantee for the main category of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u230	Minister, on site in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u231	Thank you, Mr President, and the House for this debate. To the President of the Section, Mr Kiuru: here is a good account of the situation, and I also have here in writing if you wish to receive these figures if you have any doubt with them. About culture, I promised to say a few words: On the cultural side, we are grateful and well placed to start promoting the government's leading projects relating to the better accessibility of culture and, in particular, the culture of children and young people, that this government's decision does not involve new direct cuts in culture. Of course, even there, the situation is tight because of the freezes in the indexes and the savings in the operating costs of certain agencies, but above all because the previous government made cultural cuts which are still in the frame,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u234	Mr President! I would now like to see a slightly more cooperative approach from the Minister in front of Parliament, when it turns out that the government has four figures: budget book figures, Stubb figures, the VM minister figures and then OKM figures, and you say to the section president that if the figures are somehow unclear, you can come and get them. Yes, everyone has been unclear about the figures. Mr President! Quite rightly, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, during the last period, the savings were made to the surface, and that is precisely why, before the elections, you also said that this is the end. Many turned their coats here immediately after the elections, but there is one politician who promised not to cut off education both before and after the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u235	Mr President! And this, Minister, with all the constructiveness: I understand that all branches of government will have to be cut off. But from these impact assessments: these training cuts have made it possible for the University of Eastern Finland, for example, to save EUR 9 million. There teacher training is organised on several campuses, including Savonlinna. There has been a first round of negotiations for 1,200 person-years, but they are mainly directed at the 130 employees in Savonlinna, and the campus is about to end. In my opinion, Mr Korhonen has made a good point here about how everything happens in line with all the government's key projects. One of our big projects is to get 110,000 new jobs for this. These effects are in Savonlinna, if the campus leaves, over 400 employees, and this is significant. I would have asked the Minister if, even if it is necessary and necessary to make these savings in education, it would be possible to direct or have a guiding approach to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u236	Mr President! Even though the painful savings have to be made, I think it is great that we are making the reforms that the Minister has already mentioned. I'll focus on two of them. Another, these new learning environments and digitalisation in schools: It can at its best provide a huge learning leap in our schools. For example, the University of Jyväskylä has strong skills that could even be used in immigrant education in a new way. I would like to ask the Minister's assessment of this: have you heard of this knowledge in Jyväskylä, and what kind of prospects do you see in it? Another important reform is the reform of vocational education and training: there is indeed a need for reform, because it makes no sense to spend three years at school if, however, local education cannot be given on an individual day only a few hours a day. And we also need to improve working life connections. But I would also like to draw attention to the preservation of natural resource education, which is one of the key projects of the future, our bioeconomy. I hope that the sector will not be forced to cut back on future growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u237	Mr President! I have to go back a little bit to the Minister's speech. It may not have been considered until the end when you described the last term of government during the period of stagnation. It's not only wrong, it's offensive. There is no time to go through the reform of the funding systems of universities and universities of applied sciences, the profiling of polytechnics, the division of hours in comprehensive school. I think you're missing your sense of style and humility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u240	Mr President! As I understand it, vocational learning and the development of skills are increasingly taking place in the workplace, and I have heard from some of the providers of vocational education and training that their purpose is to organise education, even half of teaching, in the workplace. How, Minister, would you describe this situation? How will this reform be implemented in practice, and what are the tools that more and more of this learning will then actually take place in companies and workplaces?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u241	Mr President! To date, it must have become clear to everyone that the Minister of Education is not going to answer the opposition's questions, but I was thinking of raising my concerns about the situation of basic university funding. You have cut so much of the basic funding that universities, for example at the University of Helsinki, have to combine entire subjects, and we all know that if we think a little about it, it means that the government is going over the existing university law, as it were. After all, it guarantees universities such autonomy that from the Ministry of Education they are not going to go fingering what is the content of science. Now you cut so much at one time that in practice you take the bottom away from what we understand to be a university of civilisation, that is, the autonomy of science and the autonomy of research. Have you at all stopped to think of the irreparable damage you are doing to Finnish research? Now that we're leaving the universities, there's a lot of scientists.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u242	Mr President! Freedom of science is something that cannot be compromised, and neither can the government. The future of Finland also lives in the freedom of science. That's exactly why it's worth sticking to. Representative Haatainen raised the heavy savings burden here at the University of Helsinki. That's absolutely true. The University of Helsinki is under a very heavy burden, and the Education Committee also drew attention to this and made a serious statement in the 2017 budget that pharmacy compensation, about 30 million, could be replaced within the core funding. This is how the very difficult situation of the University of Helsinki, you can say, could also be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u243	Mr President! The government may have some key projects, but education and equality are certainly not for your actions. You have praised these reforms on many occasions here, in particular the reform of secondary vocational education and training. The sad thing is that there is little money for this. On the contrary, only 88 per cent of the budget-based money in education is distributed to the organisers. In other words, the government washes its hands on the way these cuts will be made. Are they the starting points or are they these unit rates? It is true that you are giving the ball forward, but this is very irresponsible at the same time. Can you clarify once again, when many have asked in this regard what way and with what magic tricks you intend to implement these reforms, which you have so much praised here again today?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u244	Mr President! As a result of these cuts, the University of Helsinki will lay off more than 1000 employees, Aalto University will lay off more than 300 employees and, for example, the University of Eastern Finland is already in the course of its seventh negotiations. I wonder what would happen if the same number of people were laid off in one of the factories? As Mr Kiuru has already said, it would be declared an area of sudden structural change and the Minister of Responsibility would give serious interviews at the factory gate. My question is: how does the government intend to support the employment of researchers and teachers and assistants who become unemployed as a result of these cuts in new jobs, where they can use their expertise, which the Finnish society has invested in building? And finally, Mr Kalmar knows that digital learning environments have already been developed in Finland for at least EUR 20 million. They have just not been made more widely available because there has been no internal change in the way schools operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u245	Mr President! In the midst of severe savings and constant complaints, I would like to thank the Minister for his very good work and for his many positive, important projects, such as the extension of the Mobility School project. The fact is that children and young people are moving very little. Only 30 percent of the fifth graders move enough daily and only one tenth of the ninth graders. This has many very serious consequences, and the importance of physical activity can never be overemphasized. And speaking of exercise, I'd like to thank you very much for taking note of the house. I would also like to thank the committee for taking into account the young people's work and the workshops. Both have a key role to play in preventing the exclusion of young people and finding their own path in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u246	Mr President! With regard to Mr Puumala's speech, I fully agree that it is very sad how this funding for the Youth Guarantee is now being reduced. I also agree with Mrs Puumala about the importance of disseminating these very good practices, and I also support this one-stop shop principle, which is now included in this new Community guarantee, which this government is promoting. But the problem with the Youth Guarantee is precisely that this new Community Guarantee Fund will not in any way compensate for these cuts that are now being made to finance the Youth Guarantee. And this top-of-the-line project money now proposed by the government will be 10 million for the entire term of government, with a budget of 60 million a year. Some of this money has just been spent on outreach youth work, workshops. The cuts that the Committee on Budgets is now proposing are not being compensated for, but are being further cut. This has been exactly the kind of good practice that has been sought to spread throughout the country, which has been wanted to be strengthened and whose role has yet to be improved, and this decision by the government is certainly in contradiction with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u247	Mr President! For the first time, the life expectancy of our children is shorter than that of our generation and previous generations. The fact that this government wants to invest in making our children move and stay healthy and alive for longer is an important goal. We should certainly not underestimate this importance of mobility. But, Mr President, when it comes to these cuts in education, I would remind you, in relation to what Mr Gustafsson has said — that we are having a good debate in that Committee on Education — that even though this government is also doing an unfortunate cut in secondary education, the SDP's electoral programme would have cut even more, by 270 million. I would like you to make your speech a little more truthful. But then what's good is that at least high school night is not cut in the way it used to be, and there is also investment in outreach youth work and youth workshops. What you have to invest in is qualified teachers. My question to the Minister is: how will the teacher training network be taken care of in the future? With the end of Kajaan OKL, access to qualified teachers in Kainuu will be significantly more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u248	Mr President! It is a good thing that this second-degree reform is being properly carried through today, and Mr Puumala, too, started the debate. We are now in a situation where we come back to what happened at the end of the last term of government. Parliament had to give up this reform because the structural reform that was to be carried out was overturned here. Here, the opposition and the coalition at the time made it impossible for the socialists to make structural reform, when the Social Democrats had no choice but to give up that reform, because we were left with the mechanical reduction of starting places. And what is this government doing? We are warning the section that this is not going to work. The timetable will lead to mechanical cuts of money alone, and this now means that if the size of the age group is 30000 for these young people, then the ministry has issued a decision in the kingdom, and also the members of the ministerial working group have accepted that 17,600 starting places will be established.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u249	I now give the floor to Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Puumala, followed by a one-minute speech to the Minister, and then a few speeches will be made after the Minister. In this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u250	Mr President! Here again, it was very clear from the previous speeches that the SDP cuts two scissors in hand with two hands. Your election program had more savings than the government does. All I have to say is that this rhythm of vocational education and training is challenging and must do everything in the Minister's and Ministry's field of education. That is something that we will also draw attention to in the report of the Committee on Finance, as the President-in-Office of the Chamber said. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention here to the long-term nature of higher education policy, and I really appeal to the University of Helsinki's pharmacy compensation system to find ways of not making the University of Helsinki miserable. Much has been invested in Aalto University. We have to give it a chance to grow and develop. That's not gonna happen in a second. I also hope that the part of early childhood education will be fully investigated in the field of early childhood education and that the second part of the Stability Act, the reform of the early childhood education law, will be brought to an end and there will be a genuine increase in kindergarten teachers, because it will:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u251	Before Puumala and the Minister, Mr Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u252	Mr President! Yesterday was certainly one of the darkest days of this parliamentary term, when here, on a proposal from the government, this Chamber decided to cut and limit subjective day care rights for the children of the unemployed. Unfortunately, this is not the end of our sad days; we are just as sad and gloomy decisions when we deal with these massive educational cuts proposed by the government. Yesterday we also discussed the way in which the drafting of legislation has been done, the shortcomings in it, and unfortunately this has also been reflected very strongly in the savings in early childhood education as well as in the savings in education and training, how badly these things have been prepared, what this has been like when expert consultations, for example, have been completely ignored. I would like to ask the Minister how you now assess the impact of these savings on Finland's future, on growth, on the way this country develops,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u253	Now Mr Puumala, the reply, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u254	Mr. Speaker! Mr Gustafsson, a good friend of mine and a respected civilist of the people, set up a debate at the beginning of this debate that would not have had to be cut at all. In that sense, it fell into the ear that I think you would at least have been faced with that second-degree reform, that is to say EUR 270 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u257	Minister Grahn-Laasonen followed by Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u258	Mr President! There are so many questions that I may not be able to answer all of them, but I am happy to return to them, I will try my best. How savings work: The core issue is how we manage to launch and push forward reforms in the field of education. I have told you on many occasions about these ongoing reforms, and I feel confident that, even in a difficult situation, we will be able to carry through these reforms in such a way that we will, to the best of our ability, secure that core, the quality of education and research. Vocational education and training became a lot of issues and this reform is very important. I must say that it is also a pleasure to do so in the sense that, although difficult cuts are also made in vocational education and training, we have a good dialogue with the field of vocational education and training and see the need for reform as quite obvious. I went to talk to 400 education organizers in Seinäjoki, and there was such a possibility to vote. After my speech, when there was a vote, the overwhelming majority there, that is, over 90 percent, answered the question, The funding of universities is the subject of a proper debate. I have just come to this occasion from the University of Helsinki, where I met the heads of universities, and there has been a good discussion with them about how the quality of education and research can be secured even in difficult economic situations. As far as the University of Helsinki is concerned, I am also aware of the pressure and the hard situation that: there are negotiations under way, and I hope that the comments of the Committee on Education and the Committee on Finance and the statement planned by Parliament on this level of funding at the University of Helsinki will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u259	I'm sure this conversation will continue over the evening for a long time. In this debate, I would like to give my answer to Mr Gustafsson, Mr Ala-Nissilä, Mr Plant and Mr Jaskari.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u260	Mr President! Mr Puumala, in his speech a moment ago, thought out and speculated about what the Social Democrats would have done if they had done the government programme. Even before the elections, I myself, on at least two occasions in this House, said that the savings in education have already been made quite brightly, and I do want to believe in the Social Democrats that, although I also appreciate the Central Party, I have considered it to be a civilist party and I still do, we would have tried not to cut them, and that would have been achieved through structural measures, for example in this middle school. Now you are leaving out of those savings schools, the middle level is not combined, that is how you coordinate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u261	Mr President! I think that is exactly what Mr Puumala said that you would also have been faced with certain savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u264	Mr President! The government talks about innovation, digitalisation, the bioeconomy and so on. What do they all require? Science and technology. And what are they based on? Math. In recent years there has been concern about exercise, handicrafts, arts, exercise, religion, drama, fiction — yes, and I remembered to say: exercise. On the other hand, science and mathematics have not just been discussed in this Chamber. It is the substances on which the economy is based that have been neglected. As a result, for example, the number of long-term mathematics writers is falling year by year, has been falling for a long time. Every year, fewer young people apply to technical universities, and fewer young people have been applying for them for a long time. I'm asking how we can improve the interest of mathematics in schools. Should math also be an hour a day? The children would certainly have at least one fun hour — at least I think they would have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u265	Mr President! It has been said, in the words of many experts, that it is absolutely impossible to save up education and training, and that is exactly what I agree that we must do everything possible to get the money back from education, research and science as soon as possible. But then too, quite a few experts say that Finland can no longer live as a debt. Then are they non-experts on that side? We must also take care of this. Secondly, it is often said that nothing can be renewed if no new funding is available. I say that even if there is less funding, there can be reform. I would actually have asked the Minister, but at the end of this period I would like to comment: there are also elements of reform. One element is the Tampere 3 project, where the University of Tampere, the University of Applied Sciences and the University of Applied Sciences are doing new things. And the second — I fully agree with the representative of the plant: the digital side would be able to
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u266	Ladies and gentlemen! According to the rules of the game, this matter is suspended at this stage. The debate will continue this evening after these other sections. You can't say the exact time at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u267	The general discussion in Section 29 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u268	Madam President! Government cuts from universities are unreasonable. The basic funding will be reduced by EUR 50 million per year throughout the Government term. In addition, the university index freezes. Together, these form unsustainable surgeries. Technical universities in particular are also hit by the massive cut in Tekes' budget. For the University of Helsinki, the removal of pharmacy fees makes a big additional love for the appropriations. The government is acting against the recommendation of the Constitutional Committee. It proposed a phasing-in of the reduction in pharmacy fees instead of a one-off drop. Limited cuts paralyse the basic activities of universities: education, research, education, maintenance of the level of education. Universities and polytechnics have taken a YT round. University alone is losing as many as 2,500 jobs. Universities are now in need of jobs, the future of research and science, the future of Finland. Of course, it is important to find reform needs even at universities and to find new ways of working. There is a need for a new stream of profiling, but sustainable action should be taken not to start with a drastic reduction in appropriations but to invest in reforms that in future would reduce the need for appropriations in a controlled manner. Universities produce seed potatoes for the future if investments are made in the quality of research and the well-being of researchers, but the University of Helsinki, Aalto University and the University of Applied Sciences in Metropolia are all under way. It must also be borne in mind that when Aalto University was established, it was promised considerably more funds than Aalto University has received so far. Mr President! Scientists need to work in peace. Creativity is enhanced by the fact that there is no constant need to be concerned about the continuity of funding. The investigator must also have the opportunity to fail. I would like to clarify this, because failure can also lead to something new and surprising. It is unreasonable for government ministers to demand, among other things, power and evidence from basic research. Basic research is exactly what is behind all new innovations and inventions. However, we cannot know what future success stories research will lead to. We can't pick winners, and you don't want to put eggs in one basket. Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen's shepherd letter to the universities degrades the important work that our universities do for the good of our country. The government’s drastic cuts in education also discipline basic education, vocational education and upper secondary school education. Reducing the base of education will reduce the opportunities for young people and make youth unemployment even worse. The situation in early childhood education is also deteriorating. Yesterday, the majority of the Parliament voted to overturn the child's right to day care. The Government estimates that savings could be made by cutting the subjective day care right. This is short - sighted thinking that can be avenged later by increasing nausea. The quality of day care is also deteriorating, as the government has by decree increased the size of child groups in day care. In no way has the government taken into account the protective effects of early childhood education on children, such as the fact that families with fatigue or mental health problems can now receive support in their daily lives by providing child day care. On the other hand, the limitation of day care also affects employment and working life. When the subjective day care right is limited to 20 hours, it makes it difficult to work part-time and makes it difficult to find work for the unemployed. It is in the best interests of the child that families themselves can choose the amount of day care. I wonder where the best interests of the child and the assessment of the impact of children have been forgotten in the decisions of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u269	Madam President! Now I want to take a look at that future. After all, we in this Chamber hope that there will be a little more work and tax revenue in this country so that we can share it better. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Education both welcomed the AV incentive system and its potential. It is not a subsidy, it is an investment system. It is already used in 17 countries in Europe, and in Norway and Estonia it will be introduced in 2016, and in all these countries where it is used, overall positive results have been reported for the av sector and the entire national economy. The multiplier effect has been considered to be as much as 2 to 4 times the direct consumption of production. This includes a crew, catering, accommodation, travel and other services. If anything, such productions are at their best land brand work. I therefore very much hope that these statements and clearly such a general state of will, which we in the Committee on Culture and Education also have in relation to this incentive system, will create hope and then action in relation to our government, that we will also have that incentive system here in Finland, because it could have an excellent impact on Finnish cultural life, industry, tourism and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u270	Mr President! I am not talking about the terrible savings that the government is spending on education and research. Much has already been said about them and their harmfulness in this Chamber. On the other hand, I will focus on two budget initiatives which move within the framework of the framework between OKM and TEM. The first is the Laguna project. The purpose of the project is to study neutrinoastroscience as well as the major problem of physics, the so-called unitary theory. The large neutron detectors of the research laboratory should be placed deep underground within a suitable distance from Cern. Based on the scientific and technical comparisons made, Pyhäsalmi mining in Northern Ostrobothnia is the preferred alternative to Laguna’s investment site — the best location for the whole of Europe. The Laguna project is intended to proceed with a pilot project as a first step. The project has been being promoted for years, but unfortunately the Finnish State has reacted to the project and its participation in costs, let's say, in a harsh way. Laguna would be the largest international science project in history in Finland, and the project would be relevant for the whole of Finland and Europe's scientific life. Laguna would bring Finland’s physics research to a new level and could help create new jobs related to science and technology. The Laguna project would have a major regional economic impact in a situation where the region of Pyhäjärvi is threatened by restructuring due to the closure of the mine. Laguna would also produce a lot of other work through support services and the construction project. Finland’s share of the total costs will be strengthened later in the negotiations between the participating countries. A significant part of the cash flow during the construction period would be directed to Finland. The activities of Cern in Switzerland have brought in 7 francs for each franc invested by the host State. It could therefore be estimated that the euro invested by Finland in Laguna would pay itself back several times over. It would be important for a decision in principle to be taken soon in Finland as to whether or not the state is going to support the establishment of the Laguna project in Finland. It would be important to make a decision on whether or not to commit to the project, as Pyhäjärvi mining will soon be closed down and information should be available on how to plan its further use. Furthermore, the European scientific community will hardly wait many years for Finland to join the project. I have made a budget proposal for the launch of the Laguna project next year, and I think it would be important, at least, for Finland's approach to the project to be finally closed next year. The second point I would like to raise is my budget initiative on production aid for film and audiovisual production, which Mrs Kosonen has just spoken about. International film and television productions consume large amounts of money in the countries where productions are carried out. In addition to the audiovisual sector, money is spent on accommodation, support services and restaurant services. Productions tend to seek access to countries that provide for partial refund of production costs through the national aid scheme. According to Favex, for example, in Germany the incentive has been calculated to have brought investments of EUR 2.5 billion and the return ratio has been significant. Each euro granted has brought EUR 6 to Germany. In recent years, many countries have launched and further developed their own incentive schemes to attract production. In Finland, such production incentives are missing, and Finland now only receives a fraction of the trade, export, tourism and tax revenue that competing countries receive. Getting international productions to Finland would also strengthen the Maabrand and thus attract more tourists to Finland. In addition, Finnish film and audiovisual know-how and general cultural know-how would be able to develop to an ever higher level, and employment in the cultural sector would also be improved. In my budget initiative, I propose that an incentive system be developed for Finland to attract film and TV productions to the country. Service purchases and Finnish labour costs could be granted, for example, a partial partial refund of between 10 and 20 per cent. The system would pay itself back immediately during the same budget year. A similar system is already in place in 17 European countries. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has raised this issue and suggested that the production incentive system should be developed. I really hope that, even if my initiative does not go through now, next year we will start preparing for the production incentive system to be introduced and then it could be concluded for 2017. I believe that both these issues would bring work, knowledge, education and success to Finland and, after the initial contributions, both proposals would pay themselves back many times more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u271	Mr President! There are many issues in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture which could be commented on in relation to next year's budget. The government's choice to target cuts to a more relevant area of equality and economic growth, namely education and knowledge, has been one of the issues that has been covered very much this autumn. I would now like to draw attention to a smaller financial but very important entity for young people, namely the Youth Guarantee. The first is the fact that the government is cutting the funding of the Youth Guarantee very heavily. There will be less than half of the original 60 million left next year and even less in the years to come. The second point is that, in order to cover this cut, we have started to talk misleadingly about the funding of the Youth Guarantee. A total of 60 million annual appropriations were earmarked for the Youth Guarantee launched during the last Government term. Half of it was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the other half by OKM. There is nothing left of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy's contribution next year. This means, among other things, that there is no longer any money available for the Sanssi card employment voucher. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Youth Guarantee was invested in by the number of training places and by detective youth work, but next year cuts have been presented by the Government to the appropriations for outreach youth work and workshop activities. There has been criticism of the Youth Guarantee that youth unemployment has not decreased. Clearly, there is no forest for trees here. Youth unemployment is not an isolated phenomenon from the rest of the labour market. Overall, when unemployment is on the rise as a result of the recession and the policy of cuts, it will of course also lead to an increase in unemployment among young people. This does not mean, however, that the Youth Guarantee or labour market policy in general should be completely abolished. On the contrary, it is precisely its purpose to maintain people's ability to work and to keep periods of unemployment as short as possible. Mr President! I believe that the Youth Guarantee can be criticised for the fact that a large number of measures were targeted at young people who were not necessarily at risk of exclusion. Young people who have problems with mental health, who have lost their credit records and, as a result, their own place, do not benefit from a guarantee that leads them to school or work. In order to do your studies or work, you have to get other things in order first. A part of the Youth Guarantee that best served these young people is therefore a youth outreach work. It has established itself as the only service to reach young people who have already been excluded. Over the last few years, efforts have been made to consolidate the role of youth work in search and to expand the activities throughout the country. Over 20,000 young people have been reached each year. Instead of trying to further develop the Youth Guarantee on the basis of the operating models and experiences of the last government term, the Government decided to cut and replace the Youth Guarantee with a new Community guarantee, even with funding which, throughout the entire government term, corresponds to only one-sixth of what the annual funding of the Youth Guarantee for the previous period was. The government's proposals to reduce the funding of youth outreach and workshop activities, amounting to about 6 million, were particularly problematic. The amount is very small on the whole of the national economy, but from the point of view of this activity it is absolutely central. The Committee on Finance decided to return EUR 3.75 million for this operation, an important step in itself, but not enough to cover this initial operation. In its own opinion, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs unanimously presented 10 million. However, the most disturbing thing may have been that it has been very difficult to obtain accurate, accurate information about the distribution of funding between the various items and the combined cuts in the Youth Guarantee. It was only at the very end of the budget debate that it became clear that the Ministry of Finance had different figures on the funding of the Youth Guarantee from that of the Committee on Finance's Section for Education and Science. It is also very misleading that reference is made to the basic funding for youth activities as a whole when it comes to the funding of the Youth Guarantee. They are two completely different things. Finally, Mr President, I put my wish to the government on this one and only question, that the government should have located these really short-sighted cuts in the search for youth work and workshops. But even this government could not and did not want to, even though it is a very small amount but a very important issue for young people. I'm so disappointed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u272	Mr President! The government justifies drastic cuts and also these cuts in education by the fact that we are forced to cut because we are in a difficult economic situation. The Social Democrats believe that it is precisely because we are in a difficult economic situation that it is worth investing in education and knowledge, and also because there are particularly serious social reasons in this situation. Unemployed people should be guided to study. Children at risk of exclusion must be taken care of; they must be brought to day care centres, schools, a district of services. Young people should not be left behind, but should be provided with services. In a difficult economic situation, we must also create faith in the future and prospects for the future from where new growth can arise. And that is where education plays a key role. Both domestic and international economists have warned Finland that cuts in early childhood education, vocational training, higher education, research and innovation systems are short-sighted and will cost a great deal in the long term. They will destroy the keys to our future growth. Earlier today, Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen justified these drastic cuts in education, among other things, by the fact that, at the same time, we are investing in individual points, as if these small seeds of growth were being imported there. I feel that this is quite unbelievable in a situation where this whole foundation is being cut off, that is to say, these new development and growth fins. This is not terribly credible, but, in this situation, we should stick to this basic funding as well as, of course, increase the opportunities for reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u273	Mr President! The opposition has started by criticising the educational reforms initiated by the government across the board. In the past six months, education in Finland has not fallen into current difficulties and the current opposition could have contributed to the development of the situation. In particular, the education ministers of last season are looking at them. The Sipilä Government has taken education into its top projects and is investing money in its development. Although the amount of funding needs to be adjusted due to the economic situation, it is also intended to create new approaches that will enable our society to continue to provide quality education. The reform of education is an entity that goes through the whole system so that it can be made as well as possible to serve both students and working life. This will give us more innovation, fresh thinking for companies and practical knowledge and experience in educational institutions. Over the past few days, the opposition has tried to make decisions on children, for example, very unilaterally. For example, an increase in the fees for school morning and afternoon club activities is not an imposition, but municipalities can, if necessary, raise fees and make decisions according to their situation. Each municipality makes a decision on a possible change of payment and is made by representatives of different parties themselves. In addition, children of low-income families are entitled to the service free of charge. The decision-making process will be brought closer to the citizen concerned. Is this not precisely a democratic and fair approach that also increases equality between children? A separate project has been launched by the Ministry of Education and Culture for the modernisation of educational materials in comprehensive schools. This will give us equal learning materials for pupils in different schools. At the same time, the school is better able to support students in the search for information and processing of information in a variety of ways. These are skills that will hardly be denied in the future. Digital learning material is not used like printed books that are recycled in municipalities from one class to another. This reform will therefore also bring new opportunities for teaching and greater equality between pupils. With secondary reform, we can get vocational education and training to meet the needs of working life and certainly reduce the number of young people who do not have training. Secondary education prepares young people for working life, where they may work up to 50 years after graduation. Education must therefore provide a good basis for lifelong learning and occupational development. The basic skills required have already been learned through modern methods and cost-effectively, thanks to the revised teaching methods in comprehensive school, so that young people have a good basis for acquiring new knowledge and skills when they are already studying. The importance of these skills has increased and will become even more important in the future. These measures also have a clear impact on equality, which enables us to match demand and supply by training skilled workers in their profession. Closer cooperation between higher education institutions and companies will help to stimulate Finland’s competitiveness. This is how we make the innovations of universities available to businesses. Companies and universities will be able to jointly develop new export products that will benefit the whole of Finland in addition to schools and businesses. Regardless of the weak export situation, Finns are still innovative, and we can encourage students to participate in various university and business projects, thus making innovation and the way to implement innovations more securely. This reform will encourage companies to enter into university cooperation with boldness and improve access to employment for students when they graduate. Mr President! This is not a matter of individual actions, it is a matter of a whole. The purpose of this package is not only to improve competitiveness, but also to improve justice and equality in many ways. We now need actions to bring Finland up in a challenging situation. The actions must be such that they will continue to carry our country forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u274	Mr President! Almost every operation that has to be done is bad from a point of view. Similarly, any additional allocation that can be made is a good thing. A little too much time and energy is being spent in the debate to establish this self-evidentness. In Finland, however, the debt is now so high that no part of society can be untouchable in these pursuits. We need to prioritise what we spend our debt money on, because we live on our children's bill and we want to close that spike. Every surgery has been horrified by the left-wing opposition here in the Chamber, and in particular a lot of tears have been shed about the cuts in universities and education. However, there are many left-wing graduates who have been able to create a fine career in politics despite a lack of education. Finland is a small nation that rises only from the innovations brought by education. But there's something wrong here. Unlike the rest of the world, higher education does not create a desire to become an entrepreneur, but rather a desire to reduce it. I have been wondering about this for a long time. Is there too much waiting for a table and someone’s salary, or what is the passivity? Finland does not in itself need masters or doctors for the sake of these titles themselves to be unemployed, but Finland needs good ideas and people who are willing to take them forward. Something is wrong with this society or its education system when ideas are not invented or at least cannot commercialise. Mr President! It is clear that there is room for improvement in the university world. There are a lot of disciplines which are unlikely to bring us exports or which could lead to innovations that would create jobs in the private sector. The focus must be on delivering skills that also have practical use. This also applies to higher education institutions. The Government’s guidelines on university profile and concentration are therefore welcome. I see these so-called cuts in education as more of an opportunity to sharpen activity and focus on knowledge rather than on the manufacturing of qualifications. It is unacceptable for the attitude that surgery means automatically deterioration. It is unacceptable to have the attitude of being the first to trample on the foot and to demonstrate when it comes to carrying its share of economic activity. Is this how the civilization of this country works? I wonder. I would also like to express my disagreement with the views that savings should be responded to by focusing on universities. The country is wide and the universities in the provinces produce good research. The value of a university for the development of the region must also be recognised. Contrary to some ideas, Finland also has life outside the capital region and the largest growth centres. The University of Helsinki is not the only educational institution in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u275	Mr President! This field of administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture has this autumn proved to be a rather complex entity in which much is happening. There are major structural reforms, these savings, more budgetary laws, and that is what we in the Committee on Education and Culture have largely gone through in the autumn. Both our committee reports and this report by the Committee on Finance have emphasised very strongly the importance of monitoring and the need for impact assessments in the future. This is an important opportunity for the government in the future, and it is precisely by assessing the impact of the various reforms, the different laws as a whole, when they target the same target group, especially children and young people. I think the report by the Committee on Finance is very good anyway. It takes account of this situation and also takes a very critical view of the possible effects of these decisions. Therefore, this importance of monitoring and the need for impact assessment is a very important message. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has itself proposed an additional EUR 10 million, as Mr Andersson said earlier. This was quite unanimous, and a number of positive statements have now been heard in this Chamber. Another such joint committee was the AV incentive system, which Mr Kosonen mentioned here, and which was excellently mentioned. These are both proposals which seem to share views here, and this is also a good opportunity for future budgets, in particular perhaps in conjunction with the TEM. Both are common interfaces, and these cuts have been applied both ways in terms of youth work. This system of av-production incentives is one that hits the administrative sector of both ministries. The increases that are now coming to the budget are positive: the situation of asylum seekers has been taken into account in the budget and, as a result, this whole is actually growing compared to the current year, especially because of the additional resources allocated to preparatory education, which is justifiable and good. Other positive additions are the quote fee, which is still too small in its role, but it is important that it is now involved, a well-founded reform, and it can certainly be agreed that then, in Finland’s centenary year 2017, this issue will be put right together. There will be a small additional allowance for youth work, especially on the workshop side. This is a very positive example of an increase in which even a very small amount of money can do much good. The same is true of these school club activities, which also attracted a small increase of EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u276	Madam President! The current immigration situation also affects the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Preparatory education for basic education will begin almost immediately when the child enters the country. This is very expensive teaching, at least as expensive as special education. Municipalities are obliged to organise this preparatory training, and the government naturally pays for the violins. Is there currently a risk that some asylum children will be involved in expensive education and a few months later they may receive a negative asylum decision? Would it make sense to start training only after receiving a residence permit? I think that would be sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u277	Madam President! In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, a particularly stimulating issue for this autumn was the audiovisual incentive system, which would better guide Finnish and foreign film productions. Specific production incentive schemes are the main driver of international production across countries. Their absence in Finland means that international productions are not allowed here. Finnish films are also being filmed to an increasing extent in other countries offering incentives. The production incentive system should be sufficiently large and permanent to be credible and effective in deciding on the location of these projects. The effectiveness of the system is linked to the establishment of similar systems and the level of support for decisions taken by competing countries. This incentive system is interesting in that it finances itself. According to preliminary calculations, the central government's contribution of EUR 1 would generate tax revenue in the first year of almost EUR 1, in the second year almost EUR 1.5 and in the third year EUR 2 would be approaching already. Film production is particularly important in Northern Finland, where for years a project-based North Finland Film Commission has been operating. The industry already has strong cooperation with Northern Sweden and Northern Norway. The aim has been to create a common labour market for the audiovisual sector. Northern Finland has had a large number of employees in larger productions both in Norway and Sweden. Now that the Norwegian Insent starts in 2016, employment will no longer be possible in the same way, as Finland lacks an incentive that attracts productions. In international competition, Northern Finland continues to lose productions in Lithuania, Iceland, Germany, Slovakia, Ireland. Until ten years ago, it was enough to market spectacular locations and skilled professionals in the area. Today, the first question to be asked in international competition is what is the Finnish Insensive System. The impact of films filmed in Northern Finland has been studied from the point of view of regional economic impact. The importance is also great from the point of view of tourism marketing, such as the Hollywood production Hanna, some of which was originally located in Kuusamo, but only landscaped sections were described in Kuusamo and samples of the Kuusamo wilderness cottage were taken in Germany in the shade of larchs. The duration of the group would have been longer if an incentive had been in place. Unfortunately, the fact that we are now in the background of competition means that the contributions made in previous years, such as those made in the Film Commission, are slowly being wasted. Mr President! It is vital to create a model for the Finnish incentive system during the coming year and to adopt it as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u278	Mr President! Indeed, there are unfortunate cuts in education, and no part of the state budget will escape them. And the simple reason for this situation is this serious economic situation in Finland. The way in which these cuts are made is then left to the municipalities and, for example, to the higher education sector and also to the educational institutions themselves. For example, during the last period, these cuts and the way in which these decisions would have been put into effect — the fact that, for example, the ministry would have decided in the future where, for example, upper secondary school education is located — were indeed the wrong path, and the municipalities should continue to be able to decide on these matters, and that is how this will be ensured. The upper secondary school network is also not being narrowed down, this network is being held on, there will be no more cuts like this, as in the past. Then on this youth guarantee: It is good that we are able to put this EUR 4 million into this detective youth work. It is absolutely essential and has been a well-established practice. This amount can also be put in the workshops for young people, so that at least a certain level can be maintained here. But it must also be said that the Youth Guarantee has not been an effective model, since youth unemployment has continued to grow strongly and needs to be developed in the direction of the Community guarantee, and that responsibility will continue to lie with one body and good models will be spread across the country. I would also like to correct the misunderstanding still further and the false speeches about the right to day care being completely removed from a group. This is not true, but the right to full-time care will continue to exist for those families and children who need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u279	Madam President! The government has done a responsible job trying to make enough money for the teaching sector in these times of scarcity. Of course, our funding would all seem to be more abundant. However, there is a particular wisdom to be found in a decision. This solution is a real gem in this budget gap. It is a matter of the decision to take over the country's former President, Pehr Evinhufvud's home and to provide it with resources to preserve this valuable legacy for posterity. It is important that today’s people, not to mention future generations, can visit the site to explore the historical heritage represented by President Svinhufvud’s life’s work and that Finland shines brightly among the nations. Mr President! The citizens of Luumä, South Karelia and the whole of Finland, who appreciate civilization and the fate of the history of our country, are deeply grateful in their hearts for the kindness shown by the government towards this precious historical heritage and its preservation. The special thanks for this wise and valuable decision go to Mr Grahn-Laasonen, who, through his uncompromising work, has taken the application for funding forward. Activists who have continued to present the matter and have promoted it through various channels, individually and as a popular movement, both in Luumäki, the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and elsewhere in Finland, deserve credit for the intransigence in which the work of influence was carried out in spite of adversity and obstacles to fate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u280	Madam President! In this economic situation, it is absolutely necessary to reduce the appropriations. Nevertheless, I would point out that there are items in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture where the government is implementing things that we Finns have been talking about for a long time. They can provide reasonable savings. Language testing is very welcome. It is a step in the direction that we can finally get rid of unnecessary and very expensive forced Swedish in many places. The tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA are also the right solutions. There are now over 20,000 foreign degree students in Finnish higher education institutions. Three quarters of them come from outside the EU and the EEA. There are about 400 foreign-language programmes for which a fee is to be charged. It has been madness that such numbers of foreign students have been able to complete a degree from the wallet of a Finnish taxpayer. Those foreigners who have the motivation to take root in Finland and stay here to work after completing their studies can pay that tuition fee, which does not even cover the costs of their studies. Madam President! School sports are being increased, and that is the right decision. Our children and young people are dividing up into those who can afford to do things and those who do not. At the same time, some are in good condition when others are getting worse and worse at a younger age. Today, some sports swallow up to 3,500 euros a year. In this case, families with three children are talking about more than EUR 10,000 per year. It is a very large sum for families where both parents work. Many sports are becoming the privilege of the elite. Even the fact that there is no car in the family to take children to practice can stop hobbies. Therefore, the importance of school exercise needs to be emphasised and sports lessons need to be increased. The Mobility School project has been a success and has spread to a delightful extent. Madam President! EUR 250000 will be allocated to the experiment of the Finnish Foundation for Settlements. This will support the educational path to work of young people who have completed comprehensive school and prevent the development of exclusion. This appropriation is used by the Foundation for Settlements to carry out operations in accordance with the Master-Road model. I am in favour of the master-running model and I would like it to be widely introduced at our disposal. It has been a good experience in Germany, for example. There are many professions for which studies can only be prepared in part. From my own experience, I can say that, for example, there are many jobs in the sawmill industry that are best learned in the guidance of a good master. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u281	Madam President! Public sector adjustment measures significantly reduce the administrative resources of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Taking into account the overall budgetary savings, the impact of these austerity measures on the funding of the Ministry of Education and Culture will be estimated at EUR 982 million by 2019. It's a huge amount. There is no reason, and without reason, for the committee's report to highlight the fact that the cut is so large that we must ensure that this does not affect us in such a way that our good development as a civilized country as a whole is halted. The committee has therefore proposed a statement: "The Commission requires that the government closely monitor the impact and timing of the allocation of savings and compensation for early childhood education, basic education, secondary education, higher education and research and pharmacy payments." This is a very important point. There is, then, an interesting project in these key projects which states that the aim is to reform primary and secondary education, speed up the transition to work and so on. It would have been great if there had been more understanding and knowledge about this. The fact that a budget has been allocated to the club activities of Christian schools is a good thing to be taken into account here. This is historic, never happened before. Then there is also a central government contribution to the educational institution for liberal education: the People's College of the Great Book, which has been doing great work for decades, has been proposed to develop their work by EUR 100,000. They're great additions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u282	Mr President! I will take one example, i.e. my study at the University of Helsinki. There about 15% of staff will be reduced by 2020. These are really painful surgeries; you have to admit that when you know people quite well. I know that we have internationally respected teachers there — what it will really affect the future, as Mr Laukkanen asked. In other words, these are the very difficult places – I can say as a representative of the government party myself – to be, and yet also to support, the government's proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u283	Section 33 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u284	Madam President! As a result of the exceptionally difficult economic situation, the Government Programme includes not only major structural and labour market reforms but also a pre-emerging budgetary adjustment target. This is reflected in the budget for next year. The total in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is approximately EUR 13.1 billion. The amount is approximately EUR 360 million more than this year. This increase is due, among other things, to key projects, guaranteed pensions and increased basic security expenditure. Despite a few improvements, many painful savings are being made in the administrative sector. The committee felt that it was not possible to obtain an adequate impact assessment of decisions. In future, the Committee considers it necessary to assess more comprehensively the overall economic impact of savings and economic adjustment measures on the various population groups in the long term. The Committee stresses the importance of developing national electronic customer information systems in the field of social welfare and health care. The ict lines of the Sote solution are good. The committee is concerned about the cuts in R & D resources and considers it important that the government examines how the legal tasks of research institutes, including THL, TTL and Stuk, will be secured and how the necessary research data will be acquired in the future to underpin decision-making. The committee also highlights the need for development of social research and the use of expertise. One of the Government’s strategic objectives is to promote well-being and health, supported by five key projects. This also involves pilot activities which the committee considers important. The committee also stresses, among other things, the need to increase physical activity to a greater extent in health care. The committee allocated additional funding for a number of important purposes. In order to ensure the continuity of services for intoxicant mothers, the Committee proposes an increase of EUR 1 million and EUR 200,000 in evidence-based nursing. Experience with low-threshold operating models is good, according to the committee's information. They will enable support to be given directly to the people concerned. To this end, the committee proposes an allocation of EUR 1.1 million. The committee welcomes the abandonment of the reform of the housing allowance for the pensioner. The compensation for the deficit created is accompanied by a cut in Kela's operating expenses of EUR 5 million. The Committee stresses that it is essential for the legal security of beneficiaries of benefits that Kela's operations remain of high quality. The adequacy of the budget shall be monitored and, where appropriate, secured by an amending budget. The committee will add EUR 4 million to the rehabilitation of veterans and, in particular, to the increase in services to be taken home. In addition, the committee wishes to oblige the government, as the year of independence approaches, by two statements. First of all, the committee proposes to make a statement on the reduction of the disadvantage rate of community open services for people with mild disabilities to 10% by 17 at the latest, at which time the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence will be celebrated. In addition, the committee proposes a statement requiring that the appropriations necessary for the rehabilitation of front veterans and veteran services in the next budgetary plan and in the draft budget for 2017 be brought to a permanent level corresponding to the need for services. Government funding for health care units for university-level research has decreased by about one-half in a few years. Surgery endangers a high level of clinical research in medicine. The committee is concerned about this and proposes an increase of EUR 3 million. Finally, the committee draws attention to the planned increase in asylum places. Mr President! On behalf of the section, I would like to thank the worthy ministers and, on my own behalf, the section members for their good work in this challenging social and health care sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u285	Mr President! I would also like to thank the committee for its excellent work and also for the report and again for the objections that had been raised, because very important things had been raised there. Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is based on growing concerns about the balance of public finances and the livelihoods of the most vulnerable. This is also reflected in key projects under the strategic health and well-being objective of the Government Programme, in which, among other things, service vouchers and basic income tests are carried out and the assessment of the allocation of housing-based social security. The administrative sector's share of the state budget proposal for 2016 is EUR 13.1 billion, or about a quarter of the total state budget. The draft budget is EUR 386 million higher than the actual budget for 2015. The most significant change in the supplement to the draft budget is the withdrawal of the combination of housing allowances. The additional budget reserve is covered by compensatory savings, of which, for the section of the STM, the main items are State compensation to health care units for the costs of medical and dental training, Kela’s operating expenses and the purchase of vaccines on a one-off basis. The costs of increased migration, which affect the STM section with a delay, will be taken into account in the first amending budget 2016 so that the need can be reliably assessed. The central government's unemployment security expenditure for next year is estimated at EUR 2.86 billion, which is an increase of approximately EUR 111 million due to the estimated increase in unemployment. According to the current estimate, the unemployment insurance contribution will be increased by 1%, of which the contribution increase for employees and employers will be equal, i.e. 0.5 percentage points for both. The unemployment insurance contribution for employees not covered by the fund will be directed to the Social Insurance Institution to finance the basic daily allowance, and the increase will reduce the central government contribution by EUR 46 million to finance the basic daily allowance in 2016. The terms of the rotation leave will be changed so that the savings will be EUR 50 million per year for public finances and EUR 21 million for the state. Mr President! Health insurance expenditure is expected to fall to EUR 4.7 billion in 2016. The reduction in compensation is due, among other things, to savings in health care insurance, which will amount to approximately EUR 99 million in 2016 and a central government contribution of EUR 44 million. Saving measures include reducing travel expenses, reducing medical and dental costs and withdrawing the entry into force of the Aura rehabilitation. In addition, a total saving of approximately EUR 37 million will be allocated to the state contribution to pharmaceutical payments. This will have an impact on public finances of EUR 83 million. EUR 58 million of the savings are linked to the Spring 2015 decision to introduce initial own funds, to increase the basic reimbursement of medicines from 35% to 40%, and to other smaller measures to curb the increase in the cost of medicines. Of the savings, EUR 25 million will be implemented through new measures, half of which will be allocated to increases in patients' initial and other responsibilities, and half to pharmaceutical operators through a fixed-term refund fee and an increase in pharmacy fees. In order to counterbalance the savings, access to medical rehabilitation will be reduced, which will increase the need for funding by EUR 5.6 million. In addition, the level of rehabilitation psychotherapy allowance for adults will be increased to the rehabilitation psychotherapy allowance level for young people from the beginning of next year. The income limits and the rate of reimbursement of sickness and parental allowances will be amended as follows: the limit on the income from work entitled to 70% of the sickness allowance will be reduced; the increased daily allowance for the first 30 days of the parental allowance will be reduced; and the right of leave for parental leave will be limited. These changes reduce the cost of employment income insurance but do not affect the central government share. Mr President! EUR 4.5 billion will be earmarked for pensions next year. In 2016, the state will pay EUR 2.3 billion for national pensions and EUR 192 million for guaranteed pensions. According to the Government Programme, a monthly increase of approximately EUR 23 is made in the guaranteed pension, the cost impact of which is EUR 26 million, taking into account the reduction in housing allowance expenditure. A total of approximately EUR 232 million is proposed to support veterans. The level of the rehabilitation allowance for breast veterans will continue to rise by around EUR 50 per veteran compared to the 2015 level, and EUR 30 million will be allocated to reimbursement of the costs of open maintenance services under the Military Injury Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u286	Madam President! Thank you to the Committee on Finance and thank you to the section for your work, which you have done and contributed to our ministers' support for the future. Three things about your budget report. Firstly, contrary to what has been said in this Chamber yesterday and this week, the central government shares of the municipalities will increase by EUR 290 million next year. They will change plus EUR 290 million. Without going further into history, I dare say for the third time that the sign of the central government shares of municipalities is plus and has a cost impact of EUR 290 million in the whole country. I am sorry, Madam President, for this repetition, but when this week has deliberately spread the opposite argument, this is, for example, read in the report of the Committee on Finance and there are reasons for it. A cost-sharing review will be carried out and the percentage of municipalities' central government shares will be changed. This has led, among other things, to the fact that, over the past autumn, very many municipalities have been able to refrain from raising income tax rates for a long time, and for this only thanks are due to the fact that it has been possible to increase predictability for 2016. And from the point of view of basic services, it is important that municipalities are able to secure the services that are important to people. Secondly, the committee draws attention to the ability of the services under the ministry to fulfil their obligations, both for the authorities and for others. This is one of the salvos that we must be able to pay attention to in the performance negotiations between the ministry and the ministry's departments and say out loud the things that may no longer be possible with current resources. Black will not become white by speaking, neither in the state accounts of the municipalities nor in the budget cuts of the institutions under these ministries, but it is also important to know what those decisions mean and openly to tell about them. Madam President! Thirdly, the train of change in social and health care is pounding on its own tracks, but no matter what and at what speed that train is pounding, it is absolutely essential that we be able to bring about a situation in which — to which the committee too draws attention — information begins to move. It is absolutely necessary to ensure the development of social welfare and, more generally, of state administration ict and, above all, to ensure that the information available will be made better use of in the future, so that we can cope with the salvos that lie ahead at the end of the decade and in the next decade. Another thing, digitalisation, at the title level, is one that will not succeed unless we get the information really and truly moving. Thirdly, the so-called good practices, the content of the activities, must be made more widely available, and the better the information flows, the better the compatible systems we have, the better the chances of success. Mr President! The fact that money is scarce usually contributes to the promotion of ideas, ideas and other ways of doing things. Our social and health care systems will never survive unless we genuinely look for new operating models, such as child and family work or home care for older people, family care and so on. Even in the midst of all negative decisions, next year will be the first year of evidence that the government's top projects on children and families and older people in terms of self-help as well as home and family care will move forward with their future solutions. And last but not least: our euro will never be enough unless we eat better and move more, that is to say, this key project for health promotion is one of those things, if you will. paragraph On the level something says aloud, so this is a matter of the heart alongside many other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u287	It is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I would like to ask those involved in the debate to register. — Representative Haatainen begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u288	Mr President! Thank you for your contributions to the ministers, but the fact is that this budget, if anything, will weaken the position of the poor, those with a great deal of suffering, those on low incomes. And now, if we take just one example, we will cut the reimbursements for health insurance, which means that the initial ownership of one purchase of medicine will be EUR 50, as early as the visit to the clinic will be about EUR 40, and the trips back and forth will be EUR 50 per visit. So, according to my math, just visiting a doctor from there for longer distances is 90 euros, and on top of the drugs, 50 euros, it's almost 150 euros already. In other words, these savings, which are being made, are very serious in a situation where we already have very high payments. In addition, a number of measures have also been targeted to reduce primary income security, i.e. these index cuts. And many surgeries will now lead to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u291	Madam President! Too little exercise is a central cause of many of our people’s diseases, leading to type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. It is also a key cause of the crash of elderly people. The FAQ Institute has estimated that the cost of healthcare due to immobility is already close to EUR 2 billion per year. In this presentation Mr Kankaanniemi also pointed out the importance of immobility and that it should be more visible in our health care in the future. That is indeed the case. And when the aim of the social welfare reform is to eliminate the health and social sector boundaries, this really comes to this trouble like an order to finally see and deal with a person as a whole. I would therefore like to ask the honourable ministers: when Mr Ruhula pointed out that good practice should be disseminated, how do we ensure that our concern about the importance of physical activity will also be reflected in practical work in these social areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u292	Madam President! It is a great thing that this budget looks at family care for the elderly, older people and family care. They target a long-awaited resource, for the dream and idea of all of us is that home is the best place for a person to live, live and live. I would like to ask you, Minister, how is this start-up work on improving the quality of home care going forward? The additional resources allocated to substance abusers are extremely important. It is, of course, a pity that this funding is not continuous, it is always provided in this way afterwards. Is it possible that perhaps one day there would be continued funding, because money is infinitely needed and a small, quiet group is very much in need of help there?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u293	Madam President! It is quite true that the economies of the municipalities are not being cut, but are being cut to the low-income, poor, sick, unemployed citizens. This is the target group of the government that is now in real distress. The unfortunate fact is, too, that people are no longer able to cope with these basic expenses of life, which has forced people to resort to income support. In the basic line of the government proposal, in fact in every proposal, it says that "the government proposal will increase the number of income support customers". This has been very surprising in the sense that public will in social and health care services and health care is generally aimed at improving primary benefits and income support is always the last resort. I would now like to ask: why does the government increase people's dependency on income support, thereby increasing people's distress and not increasing the priority benefits and, for example, canceling the 30% increase in social and health contributions, which in itself would help people to survive their daily lives...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u294	Madam President! Indeed, it has been terribly sad to watch the government target these savings proposals over the past six months. You say that you are absolutely obliged to operate, but when you look at the assessments of expert opinions in that Committee on Social Affairs and Health on how these cuts are targeted, I must say — I have said this dozens of times in this Chamber — that the fact is that you are the one who takes most of all from those who are the least ready, the least of all you are from those in the top ten. How do you justify this in the field of STM? This is very serious, this policy that you are doing and you have no consequences whatsoever as to how much you are increasing the number of people who are dependent on income support. And what savings will it be when, in any case, the municipalities have to pay the subsistence costs if they can? There's a lot of such discretionary stuff, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u295	Mr President! Research in health care will significantly improve treatment outcomes and effectiveness and will bring significant cost savings in the long term. That is why it has been extremely regrettable that university health research has collapsed to around a sixth of what it has been and that there has been no government budget for research into nursing. I am therefore pleased that Parliament increased the research funding for university health care by EUR 3 million and that EUR 200,000 was also allocated to nursing research. It is very important that, as part of the social welfare reform, solutions are found to ensure that, in the future, there will be sufficient funding for research into social welfare and health care. I hope that ministers will take the floor on this. The research will make the quality and cost-effectiveness of care, which is what we are just trying to achieve — money for equal services. Then I would like to say about that key project, Public Health 2.0: I myself was in government negotiations and I consider this to be a good project. By making Finns move, by allowing equal opportunities for healthy lifestyles, we can reduce the sustainability gap in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u296	Mr President! Indeed, there have been very painful savings, painful cuts, as the President-in-Office of the Chamber, Mr Kankaanniemi, said in his introductory speech. Many decisions also place municipalities in a very unequal position and therefore also our Finnish residents in a unequal position. These drastic austerity decisions of the government have not been implemented in all municipalities. We have seen now in autumn, when budget readings have taken place in different municipalities, that, among other things, the limitation of subjective day care rights and, on the other hand, these increases in social welfare and health care services will not come into force in all municipalities. How do you, ministers, see how these decisions, which are taken here in Parliament on the one hand, and then decided by the elected representatives in the municipalities on the other, place municipalities and residents in an unequal position?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u297	Värderade fru talman! Det är är tuvarr på det sättet att regeringens åtgärder nu drabbar dem som från tidigare också har det mycket svårt ställt då man höjer självrissen för läkemedel, det blir dyrare att ta sig till vård och också kostnaderna för besök på vårdinrätttingar kommer att stiga. Därför har svenska ricksdagsgruppen effecterlyst ett gemensamt kostnadstak, ett gemensamt självristak för dessa kostnader.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u298	Madam President! Our national situation is very difficult. The savings we are dealing with are directed at the beneficiaries, but I find it unprecedented that some professional groups will then be able to prevent those who work from participating in these austerity projects. I also call for the search for new operating models on the health care side. We know that, for example, in specialised medical services, the cost difference between hospitals is almost 40%. This is unheard of. It takes a new attitude on the part of both citizens and then patients to care and, in particular, to bear this responsibility for the implementation of care, both in terms of prevention and then in terms of disease care. We are used to the fact that services are brought to us free of charge without the need for any effort. I would like to see that in the future we should develop a payment system in the direction of lowering the ceilings and increasing the initial share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u299	Madam President! I am sure that many of us will be able to agree with the additions which the President-in-Office of the Section has presented to this section of the Committee on Finance for veterans, for low-threshold services, for families. But these, President-in-Office, are not in any way in relation to the cuts that the government is taking at the same time. If you look at the situation of a long-term sick person in this kingdom: through the indexes you come into the jacket, through customer fees you come into the jacket, through medical travel fees you come into the jacket. All of these together, and their combined effects will be dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very serious for those people who are already in the most difficult position. Sometimes when it is difficult to believe us from the opposition, I quote Anneli Pohjola, a professor we all know. He said in that section: "There are problems when several cuts at different stages are being made to the same disadvantaged groups over and over again. Inequality, direct poverty is increasing." This is what it's all about. This is what you have to answer: is lowering the car tax the right choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u300	Madam President! We must now also take into account the fact that the government is, however, pushing forward this historic social welfare reform alongside these unfortunate cuts, and that reform is absolutely central to ensuring the availability and quality of services, because a democratic decision-making structure is now being introduced. The decision-making process has run away from joint municipal authorities, businesses, supranational institutions, and therefore the main problems are whether you can get to a doctor there. That's not so much a problem as...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u303	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on how this budget is going to hit the low-income and disadvantaged very hard. In addition to this, the Government has also agreed to prepare a separate social security system for immigrants next year, which would be lower than this Finnish social security based on housing. My own view is that such a reform would be deeply unequal and would also make integration more difficult. I would now like to ask the Minister: How, in your view, would such a system support integration? Have you ascertained whether this is in line with the principles of equality in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u304	Mr President! As far as I am aware, no representative of the government party, both from the ministerial box and from us in this Chamber, has claimed that these cuts are in any way beneficial or pleasant to be carried out. But I would hope that even the representatives of the opposition will not be playing a bit of a historyless game. We had in our hands a government in which, among other things, the Social Democrats sat, a country of hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. In addition, we also have strong memories from the last government period of actions that cut pharmaceutical fees, travel expenses, freezing child supplement indexes, decisions related to customer fees and so on. However, I think it would be very fair for us to look at this whole, and yes, I share the concerns of the opposition about the most low-income people, but the whole picture is that these savings decisions have been taken for a long time now and we certainly have something to improve on the overall impact assessment. Furthermore, like Mr Juvonen, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for this money for drug addicts and to say and hope that it will find a more sustainable solution in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u305	Madam President! We must now correct that none of us here have played in an unhistorical way or presented, but it is precisely the fact that the country is in a difficult situation. I understand that no one here has denied it either. But, Mr Saarikko, please show me the calculation and decision in which we, when we were on the board, would have increased customer fees by 30%. Show me that decision. It is directed directly at the citizens, and then, in the name of democracy, we have the right to ask whether the government's choice of values is the right one when you discipline the people who have finished in the poorest position. Is it right to lower the 200 million car tax but to discipline the poor?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u306	Mr President! It is quite clear that these decisions have been difficult and concern low incomes. Now that we have reached the point, I would like to ask the Minister and raise the issue of something good for the government here too: It has been somewhat disturbing that some people have come to the conclusion that this matter of family carers would not improve during this term of government, since I myself have now come to the conclusion that this is one of the few points we want to invest in and are able to invest in today's difficult times. Could the Minister clarify what will happen to self-help this season?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u307	Mr President! When Mr Saarikko here just said that we have increased customer charges almost in the same volume as this government, it is worth paying attention to these claims. You might want to pay attention to these allegations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u308	Mr President! This discussion started here in the Chamber from the point of view that Mr Heikkinen stressed this own responsibility and that through exercise and other kinds of activity there would also be more healthyness. This point of view must also be made here, because we cannot think that when our standard of living is constantly rising, our life expectancy is rising, yet we still have more money to pay for disease all the time. In a way, we have to whistle that game at some point, and now that we have this economic situation, we have an enormous influx of immigrants here, thanks to the adoption by the old parties of international agreements that can come in like doors and windows, we now have this situation that we need to balance the economy. That is, in principle, the situation that you have created, and it is now that these lowest incomes will suffer the most. At the same time, however, we are also carrying out these structural reforms, which will then put this situation on a more sustainable footing in the future. These decisions are not ideological, they have also been heard, for example, from our government's bourgeois parties that they are not happy to make these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u309	Madam President! Indeed, we are in a very difficult situation, and no one is happy to do these balancing measures, but this is precisely because the future government will not have to pay even more attention to these savings for its citizens. We are balancing the economy, but we are doing everything in our power to create work and entrepreneurship in Finland. The difficulty is illustrated by the fact that if you look at next year's budget for the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, you see that there are almost 400 million more money there than this year. Of course, there are key projects, there is an increase in the guarantee pension, there are good things there, but the fact is that the need for social security and income benefits is increasing as unemployment increases. That is why it is essential that we get work and entrepreneurship in Finland, that we carry out structural reforms so that we get more with less. We very much regret the fact that the most vulnerable, such as those with a lot of suffering, will also have to make savings, but we will do everything we can to ensure that we do not go out of proportion. I welcome the fact that, in future, an estimate by population group would be included in the general budget justifications,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u310	Madam President! The representatives of the opposition themselves are right that there is a risk of tearing down inequalities in the various municipalities, but that is, of course, the question of the competence of the municipality, to what extent they collect customer fees and to what extent. When different municipalities are in different economic situations, it certainly results in different developments in different parts of the country. Somehow I feel that when one of the ministers raised the cost of unemployment here, the figures were surprisingly low. My own numbers are a little different. According to my sources, the cost of unemployment is 4.7 billion. Of this, basic security accounts for EUR 1.9 billion and earnings-related security for EUR 2.8 billion. The central government's share of earnings-related daily allowance is one billion, the income support is 745 million, housing allowance is 1.5 billion. This makes a total of EUR 7 billion, so that the cost of unemployment is by no means 2.6 billion. We are now dealing with a completely different measure, and this employment rate is the solution that should be applied for. The economy and the income base
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u311	Mr President! I am sure that the social and social politicians of this House will be here at the moment, and that is why it is important that we talk about this overall picture, which is affected by these individual decisions. That is why it is not insignificant to talk about the recession in the '90s, when people fell out, and that is what we must learn from. But Mr Saarikko must be told that we must also be precise about what we are talking about. On the eve of the new recession, Finns are older, we live in smaller households, we are more in debt in households, our illness has increased, for example, due to obesity, but we are also clearly more unequal than the recession of the 1990s. That is why we need to discuss, now that these individual decisions are taken, whether this will further increase inequalities and, therefore, break something fundamental from the foundation of the welfare society, to which I believe equality belongs. Have you, ministers, discussed this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u312	Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and then the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u313	Madam Speaker! The unfortunate fact is that government-implemented savings in the STM sector are focused on the same people: people with low incomes, disadvantaged people, people with high suffering. And once we have looked at these impact assessments in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it is a fact, this is a fact that when you make savings, these savings will be targeted at those who are in the lowest income decile. The least you can do is operate on those who can afford to buy drugs and go to a doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u316	Then I would like to speak to both ministers. Minister Mäntylä starts in three minutes. — — — — No matter how much you want from the toilet or the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u317	Mr President! Thank you at the outset for these very good speeches, and yes, I share your concerns precisely with the low-income people who are affected by these cuts. I don't deny it, and they cause pain, they hurt. I'm not even saying they're easy, and I'm sure I share every one of your concerns that you're raising here. But here, of course, a lot of thought has been given and, of course, one thing with Mr Rehula, we have been through this all autumn and we have wondered what options we have, how we could at least reduce the impact. Well, the combination of housing allowance for pensioners was cancelled, we were able to ease the cuts in medical allowances to that half, which means that we have tried to take those measures step by step. But now we have to understand that the structures of the social security system are extremely problematic, and the only way I see it as a minister is for us to go through that system piece by piece and specifically to look for such sustainable solutions so that we do not have to make such cheese planing operations, because they are the most painful of all, they are the most difficult of all. For example, Mr Henriksson’s speech — and there has been talk of it in this Chamber before — raised the issue of this uniform ceiling system. Of course, I cannot promise, but I think it is absolutely worth clarifying when the social security system is being started — and has already been started — to clean up whether there could be one such way in which we can minimise the impact of such a volume on certain groups of people. So, really, as I said, you can't promise, but it's definitely worth everything you can now that we're ready to find out. We need to find sustainable solutions. Mrs Huovinen referred to Anneli the North, which I very much appreciate, as I am sure in this Chamber everyone who knows and knows her. Yes, I share his concern, too, which he has raised. Of course, one such thing is also that, if we want permanent changes, then we must also have the positive aspects with which we can get to them, and we in the government, among other things, with these key projects, are seeking to achieve that permanent change for the family, for families with children, for the elderly, for the part-time workers and for many other groups, in order to avoid the painful, painful cuts that this government has, unfortunately, now had to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u318	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u319	Madam President! In a country called Finland, no people are left behind,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u324	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u325	Mr President! Well, I'm glad there's gonna be funding for intoxicant mothers in the future. Let us wait for the next budget to make that funding permanent. But when Minister Rehula needed alternatives here, and also Mr Mäntylä in his speech, the Social Democrats have an alternative: we in our alternative budget have proposed that health insurance reimbursements be refunded, i.e. these withdrawals are not made, the health insurance index is not cut, the dietary allowance is not abolished, the travel allowances are not cut and the rehabilitation budget — which is now being completely abolished for Aura rehabilitation — is not abolished and the increase in municipal customer fees, this 30% increase, is abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u328	Mr President! I will return to this matter of research, and I am very pleased that the committee has given this research on nursing work its budget, and I hope that this issue, as well as the substance abuse mothers, will be resolved at a sustainable level in the future. I see that evidence-based nursing, however, creates uniform treatment practices and ensures the right and effective treatment for patients and this evidence-based action can also reduce costs, which, especially at a time when there is little money, is important. Examples of such activities include, for example, preventing pressure ulcers or preventing falls. In other words, these projects have been carried out and exist and are very relevant. My question is: how do our ministers see the importance of this research on nursing work in this whole area of social welfare and health care? And indeed the continuation is: how can this work be secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u329	Mr President! The most important structural reform of this sector during this parliamentary term is the reform of social security and then the reduction of municipal tasks and obligations. To begin with, I would like to say from the last period that taxes were raised, but they also offset income differences and raised basic security. The question is, then, that we are now living a little like the self-government region ahead and the war inside, when you would have liked to have gone to the war ahead. There's a lot of big stuff here. The central government system will have to be reformed, the personnel impact assessed, the assets will be large, pension liabilities will have to be considered, and most importantly: the role of municipalities will change quite decisively, which may not yet be known. But my question is — first of all, it is good that this big project should succeed, that it is funding, that it is quite clear — when it comes to starting from the fact that the overall tax rate cannot rise, it is written in the government programme, and now it has been thought that it would be primarily a matter of applying for state funding, and now we are talking about mixed state and regional government funding: Is this such a model, however, basically coming that comes in three?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u330	Madam President! I can't help but think about this Socialist option. Mr Rinne here about an hour ago, when he opposed all the cuts in education, he said that the Social Democrats did not raise the tax rate, take less debt than the government, despite the fact that in practice all these cuts are withdrawn and create 35,000 new jobs, and then the investment package is still in their option. In my opinion, this is a model worthy of the Nobel Prize for Economics, so that everything can be cancelled and not debt as much as it is now and not tax increases. It's absolutely impossible. It's impossible. It's impossible. It's impossible. I'm sure you could award me a physics prize for that. This is the bottomless option of the Social Democrats. You're against everything. I went through your protests and amazement at how it could have been done by three former finance ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u331	Mr President! The development of home care would also require the development of community homes, but the size of the staff is now being reduced in community homes. Last time I spoke to Minister Rehula here about the human resources allocation for the care of the elderly, you told me, if I remember correctly, that the social leaders of the municipalities have thanked this decision. The aim should be — and we will certainly agree — to define the dimensions on the basis of the needs of the customers. But now I have received feedback from a very large number of care communities that no one has asked for these customers' needs, but that the management level has announced that there is now official permission to reduce the number of employees. In other words, the minimum recommendation will be the maximum, and this will reduce the chances of doing the rehabilitative and customer-needed care work in community home-type places, and I would like to see, as I had hoped last time, that if such a change would occur, proper instructions should be given to care communities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u332	Madam President! In the 1990s, 93-98, the cost of health care remained unchanged. That's when we made a lot of mistakes, we took out the local services. At the moment, however, the government's proposal includes the development of services taken home for young families, the development of informal care, and so on, that is, early-stage support, which was removed at the time, which then resulted in irreparable damage. At the moment, we have much researched information on how better treatment outcomes and financial savings can be achieved by involving citizens in the planning and development of care. It is more about the fact that health and social care professionals are not committed to implementing reforms. I see it as a management problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u333	Madam President! Above all, I would have asked about this issue of social welfare reform, and above all about the issue of social welfare. A couple of weeks ago, I was at a conference where, for example, Apott was reviewed, and there were quite a number of people there who thought that even though hundreds of millions of euros have been spent, it is still not such a truly customer-oriented system. It would be interesting to hear how we are now trying to reform the systems so that information systems also genuinely support this reform of social welfare and health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u334	Mr President! Already people are in unequal positions in different municipalities, due to different economic situations in municipalities, such as the type of maternity clinic visits in different municipalities. It has not been easy to decide, for example, on screening intestinal cancers, because it was only necessary to focus on guaranteeing their statutory services. With regard to these social and health care charges, I would just like to comment on the other side of the coin: The Customer Fees Act defines what maximum fees may be, i.e. the maximum cost of production. As we all know, the cost of production in practice is much higher than what is charged to the customer. For example, the medical fee for the health centre next year will be EUR 20 90 cents, and production costs amounted to nearly EUR 120 last year, not to mention the intensive care days of the hospital. I would have asked the Minister: do we not all specifically have concerns about the availability of these low-income public services? Thank you for increasing the central government shares of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u335	Mr President! Finland is greying at the fastest speed in Europe, and we must respond to this enormously growing demand for services by really developing those new ways of working, new ways of doing what Minister Rehula said in one of his speeches. I myself was able to be there in the government negotiations to highlight this need to develop family care and family care, and I am very pleased that this work has taken place, and I would ask the opposition to note that there are also a very large number of low-income people among family carers and family carers and their clients. They too are affected by these reforms, and they have not been completely forgotten. Appropriations for veteran rehabilitation: Veterans also earn their rehabilitation allowance. There are a lot of low-income people among them. And, of course, this money for substance abuse mothers, which is now small, but I think it is very necessary: it has always had to be increased for years, and there was money now. That there are exactly the people you're talking about in these forces, but you just don't see it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u336	Mr President! There is no point in raising blood pressure in this Chamber, but we should have a proper debate. The fact is that this people need more exercise and less liquor, and we can certainly all agree on that. Mr President! Mrs Saarakkala expressed herself a little earlier in such a way that doors and windows become refugees, and rather so that we are in this difficult situation and that is why the government has to make such painful cuts. This is completely incomprehensible. Fortunately, Finland is one of the democratic countries that have signed these international agreements. It is quite shocking to hear such accusations in this Chamber. I also think that every refugee mother should be entitled to a maternity kit. Every child is equally valuable. Mr President! Here's the question. Representative Jaskari asked about these information systems. Is it possible that before the social welfare reform
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u337	Madam President! I will answer Mr Henriksson on this issue of refugees. I have not claimed that this situation and these savings needs alone are the result of them, but we all understand that if spending is going to increase by about 1.5 billion, it will not at least reduce the criteria for doing these economic balancing measures that the government is doing now, but rather, it will increase the pressure, and that is what is going to happen now. And yet these cancellations have been made. For example, cutting the housing allowance for pensioners is not done, it is not done in full, but it was halved. Yes, everyone has tried to work, and at least this is why I can stand behind this budget. And as far as this immigration policy is concerned, for example, this government's 80-point immigration policy programme, which has a lot of blackmail — and it is also intended to weaken immigrants' benefits — received full support from, among other things, opposition leader Rinte.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u338	Madam President! The government has said that it is investing in informal care, which is a good thing. But I understand that these investments are directed at older people, which is also important, but family care also affects families with children. We do not know exactly what the proposal is — I will just tell you what has been said to us, Minister. If a disabled child is born into a family, this can cause poverty in a family of relatives, because in these situations families may have a situation where they have no income other than support for informal care, housing allowance and possibly another social security and, if necessary, income support. As a result, family care situations can sometimes be very difficult and thus direct people to regular income support. I would now like to ask the ministers whether, in connection with this Family Care Act, you will also invest in family care for children, because they are in a different situation than older people, who may have a pension or similar income on the bottom, but families with children have no other income.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u339	Madam President! Just as Minister Rehula made it quite clear, as I recall, that the central government shares of municipalities are not being cut; on the contrary, they are being increased. And the services for their residents are produced by the municipalities, and we must always remember that these health centre fees are defined by the municipalities, and if the municipality does not raise any rates — and there is also a ceiling — nothing, for example, will affect this situation. Madam President! One thing. When you look at this state of public finances, it is weak. And just as many people here and Mr Henriksson said, we must increase physical activity and reduce vices. We both have the same flaw, both in public finances and in Finland: we are in pretty bad shape. The Sipilä Government is trying and making improvements in order to improve Finland’s public finances and get jobs. Yes, we Finns must now, for goodness' sakes, leave and start to exercise and move more and enjoy life. That's how we get ahead. If we keep looking for faults in each other, you might want to look in the mirror. That beam in its own eye may be much easier to remove than that stick in the neighbor’s eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u340	Mr President! Health promotion and disease prevention were very well mentioned in the speeches by Minister Rehula and Mr Kankaanniemi. That is an important point. And also thank Minister Mäntylä especially for canceling the surgery on housing allowance for the elderly. Thank you, even though the opposition has been a little understated here. They invest in informal care, help for substance abuse mothers, guarantee pension increases. These are great, good things. 4 million will be added to the rehabilitation of our war veterans, for which I thank the government as well. Opponents of war with a 10% war injury rate are interlopers. They are expected to receive an improvement in the services to be taken home in 2017 but it is too late. We know the need is great right now. And then there's the question for the ministers. There are a lot of elderly people who will need income support because cuts are being made, but most of them are probably those who do not want it and do not know it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u341	Mr President! There has been talk of developing informal care, and Minister Rehula raised EUR 75 million of new money, presumably just for developing informal care. Mr President! The Government Programme has set out the objective that elderly people should stay at home longer than before, while at the same time the place of institutional care has been reduced and the aim is also to reduce the number of carers. I myself have worked as a nearby nurse in the health centre’s ward and I know that already there is too little time to care for the elderly, there is not enough time to take all the necessary care measures on a daily basis. Does the Minister now intend to return to the past, as it were, that women go home to care for the elderly through informal care — first the children and then the elderly — or what is the trend?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u342	Mr President! I think it is very good that we are discussing social and health policy in a variety of ways, and the adrenaline is also rising — certainly because there are a lot of these people in the Chamber now, those of us in our own parties who are concerned about low incomes and those who need the help of society in one way or another. Well, that's good. There's a lot of things that connect us. But with regard to this family care, I do not understand why Mrs Kiljunen has been given the impression that the government is somehow typifying the family care of different species. Up to now, we have supported self-help, whether it is the care of an elderly person or, for example, the care of a disabled or sick child, and this will continue to happen. This is a significant addition and, as it were, a recognition that this type of treatment exists. And many would like to be a family carer, as it were, away from working life to take care of their loved ones for a while. No one, Mr Pekonen, is forcing people to do this, but this is one option in the future. The government will add new points to the Family Care Act, which will allow this money to go right to those new items in the Family Care Act. I think it's a better way than what you did last season for $10 million:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u343	Madam President! I do not know whether Mr Saarikko was present at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when we were presented with the supposed legislation on informal care which comes to Parliament. It was specifically stated that the main emphasis will be on older people, and there was also one point I was surprised by, which said that this does not support the situation of people of working age, because the government aims to strengthen people's employment and working life, which is why this focus is on older people. This matter was presented to us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The second point is that we do not know what kind of legislation is coming here, because, as has been said many times here, the proposal for informal care comes in the amending budget and the legislative proposal comes next spring. It is positive, positive that informal care is invested in, it has not been questioned by anyone, but we have such throws
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u344	Madam President! First of all, it is true that the legislation is not yet complete and it is quite clear that we cannot know what it is, especially in the opposition, but you can read the government programme and say, Mr Kiljunen, In addition to this, we want the very fragmented home care of older people to be brought together — that is why it is a key project — so that those older people at home can be confident that they will receive the help and support they need at home. We also want those community homes, for example, to be available when it is not safe at home. So this is what we are working hard for, which is why we have this top priority project. And I would also like to say that we need to develop the care gauge. It is important that the care of the elderly should be of such quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u345	Madam President! It is very nice to note that in a few speeches this idea was taken up, which I wanted to convey, that if, for example, through physical exercise, our morbidity decreases, the less health care expenditure we have, the less social spending we have, the less central government spending we have. A preventative disease is the cheapest disease. But, Madam President, as Mr Mäntylä has said here, the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for next year, EUR 13.1 billion, is about one quarter of the entire state budget. It is quite clear that if we are going to seek to improve the state finances, we will have to make painful cuts in this large sector. And so it is that these surgeries touch very little the ordinary, healthy person. He does not need social security benefits to a great extent, he does not need medical benefits, no hospital visits to him, no taxi ride to Kela. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u346	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion in the Parliament about the undoubtedly very regrettable cuts in research activities today too. Also in this section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Finance has in its report considered the international state of the art of the effectiveness and the conditions required for the study of Finnish clinical medicine. The committee notes, therefore, that the continued decline in funding for medical research at university level for years poses a threat to the level of research. This important research contributes significantly to cost savings and to the development of nursing practices. I consider the committee's decision to allocate an additional EUR 3 million to this item to be the right measure. As a second and morally extremely important change in the budget in the committee, I would like to say that the additional EUR 4 million allocated to veteran rehabilitation and the safeguarding of home-exported services has been added.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u347	Minister Mäntylä, three minutes. You can talk about your place any way you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u348	Mr President! Now, first of all, I have to say to Mrs Kiljune, on this matter of carers, that it is precisely in the government programme that we are strengthening family care for all ages. The Government's website then contains a broader information package on what has been announced at the information conference, among other things, what these various key projects contain. But under no circumstances is the government catechizing the support for informal care or developing it for a particular age group, but, on the contrary, we want to develop it in such a way that, whether a disabled child or an elderly parent, who is being treated, it affects everyone in particular. Then, in fact, when we talk a lot about this medical research and everything else, now just like this, I want to say here that I also think it is very important that in the future we also have high-quality social and social policy research alongside its medical research. Of course, I hope that we will then be able to bring it up even more strongly in the government, because, of course, I think it is a little bit more so that, when we think that we are going to have a social reform, it is also very important that we can raise it then. And now for these top-notch projects. In fact, I have come to think about this when, of course, a lot is said about these cuts and, for understandable reasons, that they are unfortunately targeted, if you can say so, with a little too much force on these same low-income groups. It is true that work is the best social security for a person, regardless of whether he is so-called full-time or part-time. Amongst other things, in this one of our key projects, namely this key project on part-time work capacity, the objective is that these people who, for one reason or another, for example, have fallen into disability pensions too early, would be able precisely to get back into the labour market and also get out of that social security system, because in these structural reforms or in the vision of our reforms, the objective must be, in principle, to have fewer people dependent on that social security. It is clear that we will never be able to reach the optimal situation of not having them at all, but the objective must be that they are as few as possible, and this requires a range of measures, the dismantling of incentives traps and the fact that it is always worthwhile to accept work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u349	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u350	Madam President! On page 25 of the Government Programme, you will read the notes that will be used to advance your nativehood during this parliamentary term. Secondly, something has been said in the Chamber that I would like to see in writing, because, in accordance with Parliament's working methods, written statements will be made public after the matter has been dealt with in committee, but those things that have been raised in committee in some other way will then be somewhat different. I hope we're punctual. Mr Salonen raised this issue here in the previous round, and yes, this building of the future of self-loathing to ensure the holidays and to ensure those intervaling places and to ensure the survival of family carers regardless of the age of family care, regardless of which gender, Mr Pekkonen, regardless of which sex the family carer, the family carer represents, that is what we are looking for. I'm sure the model won't be all right at once, and 75 million is not enough for everything, but in a situation where, as a rule, STM's main class and in very many places there are these minus marks, this is a plus. And that basis and explanation for why the law will only come to Parliament in the spring, is that we and Minister Mäntylä carried out an evaluation on our backs, ensuring that a proper law is brought in spring rather than on a fast schedule within a few weeks something in the budget schedule that does not target the money in the direction where it is needed or the need is most necessary. Then Mr Jaskari and some others have drawn attention to the ict. I have spent 6.5 months trying to find out, among other things, why the implementation of the 2006 Act on the Kanta project, the Patient Register, has taken place in a situation where today, 9 years after the law was passed, the data of 4.7 million Finns are in the patient archive. This is one detail, but a significant one. I've given myself the answer that it's a management problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u353	So let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u354	Madam President! The war veterans' rehabilitation money is now in order. There is still work to be done on disability disadvantage rates, but Finland was the first in the world to participate in a peace-keeping operation in 1956 at Suez. Major General Ilmari Martola played an important role in launching this international UN activity. It'll be 60 years soon. There have been 38,000 Finnish women and men involved. 47 of them have died and at least 20 have been physically injured, dozens mentally. The hard-to-replace Association has done a good job on the Kriha-veteran program. Former Secretary of Defense Carl Haglund also managed that Ministry of Defence section. Now, on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, there is still some work to be done, and I would like you, Mr Mäntylä, to take care of this now, alongside all your major work, because Daesh is threatened and these operations are becoming more dangerous and this security needs to be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u355	Mr President... — Madam President! It's getting to be the end of the year. — Minister Rehula spoke about this issue of support for informal care. It is good that the government is now investing more money in it, and we are waiting for it. But I think it is important to keep this whole question of care for the elderly in mind and in the overall analysis. After all, in this 24-hour institutional care, we are about to set the carer’s size to 0.4, which means that we were already getting to 0.5 levels in municipalities on a very large scale and now it is falling to 0.4 levels. On the other hand, those who wonder what alternatives are available to them: I think it is important that the 24-hour care, institutional care, the level of care be maintained, that it is good, that it is considered safe and that the option and choice are genuinely the family carer who then decides whether to care for the elderly or sick child at home or what decisions are made. So, in my opinion, this is the most important red thread we have to hold on to all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u356	Madam President! There has been a wide-ranging debate here on these increases in payments, and the opposition suggests that 30% of the government should be raised. It must be remembered that, first of all, increases are made at municipal levels. Municipal decision-makers will allow this increase, but in my hometown, for example. In Kouvola, an increase of 2% has been proposed for the health care ceiling. I believe that this was the news that the opposition should be saying that Kouvola will increase healthcare fees by 2%, as this new proposal will allow. So we have a performance: 679691's annual ceiling. This travel allowance also applies to: When that ceiling on travel expenses is fulfilled, the total cost to that person will not go anywhere. Earlier, perhaps as early as February, he will be able to complete the ceiling and for the rest of the year he will be able to pin this on Kela, that this ceiling will protect people with a lot of suffering.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u357	Mr President! Earlier in this debate, attention was drawn to the fact that these increases in charges also increase the differences between citizens because of the different situations in which municipalities are in different situations. Surely we as legislators must be careful to ensure that citizens are as equal as possible, so that there are no unreasonable situations which, I say, will now be created as a result of these unfortunate increases. In fact, my question relates to the fact that, for example, the Medical Association in its written opinion in our section stated that the increase in these charges will in practice increase the under-use of services, i.e. people will not seek treatment, think that it will be too expensive, I will not go, and it will increase the costs, because we will only go to treatment later, and then the costs will be higher for society. How closely, Ministers, are you going to follow this development now, and by what means will you intervene if it appears that this is going to go away?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u358	Mr President! This is now where Mr Rehula and also Mr Jaskari raised this issue of ict, about which I thought I should say a word. It is, of course, a good thing that this Kansanta archive exists, but it is a fact that although the Kansanta archive guarantees the transfer of information, it has had little or no impact on these health care processes and has not brought any savings to health either. It has also been said that when time is short, this encourages us to develop and find new ways of working in health care and social services so that they are more effective but also less expensive. I would therefore suggest that, especially in the context of this war, now that this ict is being planned, there would indeed be the kind of IT work that would affect these processes of health care and social services, which are still at the same level today as in Hippocrates. The patient goes to the doctor, tells his disease, and then goes out with the prescription. Let's hope this system changes. We have some examples of self-care already in place in this country, but they have not yet spread very widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u359	Madam President! I'll continue this conversation. Mr Jaskari and Mr Ruhula have raised the issue of information systems for the Apotti and Una projects. At the moment, however, the approach is that, although we have common reporting systems, the Kanta archive, citizens are actually able to limit the dissemination of information. Not all those involved in their care will be informed when, on the contrary, we should act in such a way that a service and care plan will be drawn up with the citizen and his/her relatives, which will be recorded, and then all the actors will be able to use that information. Mr Aarnio quite agrees with this point, and in fact he sees that we should amend the data protection legislation. At present, it is a barrier to the flow of information, whereas data protection legislation should be aimed at those who are outside. All those involved are involved; they are not outsiders. This is where we have the wrong attitude on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u360	Mr President! The government has chosen to increase social and health care charges by up to 30%, as has been heard in this Chamber. Such fees include, for example, the visiting fee of the health centre, the on-call fee and the clinic fee. The OECD has previously pointed out to Finland that high customer service fees make access to people’s care difficult. In the OECD comparison, Finland has the highest customer fees in the Nordic countries. In view of the fact that the increase in contributions is hitting the most vulnerable and those who use a lot of services, such as the sick and pensioners and the disabled, the government is making a tough choice here. Many municipalities have already come to the message that such high customer fee increases cannot be made once and for all. The increase in payments is perceived as excessive. Minister Ruhula, are you not concerned, like the municipalities, that the increases are excessive, far too large?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u361	Mr President! I have thought a lot, and, as I said, I think there is a group of representatives who are concerned with the issue of low-income people and, in many ways, even those who are on the margins of society. One group that does not like the noise but that needs to be taken care of is those people who are forced to resort to shelters in their own everyday lives in the face of intimate violence. This government can be blamed on many things, but I am extremely proud of one thing, and that is that next year this government will budget 44 per cent more money for shelters than was made in the last year of the last government term. That amount was then supplemented by an amending budget, good for you. I do not blame the previous government for this; there is no point in comparing it, but I would say that if we were to be able to develop this now up-and-coming funding, we would be able to achieve almost the level of international obligations we are required to — I believe that all parties share this concern — we are on the right track. Since the last government, progress has now been in the right direction. Now the amount has continued to rise in last year's cost
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u362	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to comment on a few points here. The fleece highlighted the blocking of that flow of information in these processes of ours. That is a very important statement. As a guardian myself, I have found that there has been a need to appoint a trustee for financial matters and then an extension has been required, because the client himself, who has a guardian, denies that his information should be sought from the health care staff. It's a huge process and slows down his treatment. Here is a good example of that. And then from that past time, what Pekonen said: I know a huge number of elderly people I have met in my work, and they want to live at home to the last. It is very good that we are investing in informal care, and that is a very important issue. And then I would like to say one more thing: the opposition is very sensitive about what is being said about this government party, but then there is a terrible use of such terms as "throwing waste", with the synonym "throwing". It's a criminal term. It's in the Criminal Code. That I'll be a little less of that force and conversation to a slightly more appropriate level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u363	Mr President! Of course, the development of informal care is a great thing, but now that this trend is that institutional care has been reduced and weakened, more people will, of course, become an attractive alternative — unless there is a large wallet to buy these institutional care services. But what about the elderly who have no family and have access to that family care? What is their future? Minister, did you say just now whether I understood correctly when you were talking about this family care, that this is the goal that family carers, regardless of gender, will be there at home and will continue to care for older people. Minister, 76% of carers who care for elderly people at home with the support of informal care are women. I hope that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u364	Madam President! It was suggested that everyone wanted to live at home as long as possible. Personally, I would disagree a little, and on the basis of quite a few examples — and I have also seen for my own parents — I am not quite sure whether this is an objective that everyone should live at home for as long as possible, on top of the last.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u365	Mr President! It has to be said that this overall picture is very important, for example, for the individual pensioners, who are affected by these individual decisions, but also for society as a whole. We, as decision-makers, must understand the impact of these individual austerity measures on the whole and on the future, not only from an economic point of view, but also from an economic point of view, for example, in Mr Heikkinen's speech. It is with social welfare and health services that we influence the even distribution of well-being. For example, when, for those living in remote areas, this one-way travel allowance now rises from EUR 16 to EUR 25, for example, Kela pointed out that for remote regions it may be that a long-term sick person no longer attends these visits because he cannot afford to pay even the EUR 50, which means that the ceiling will be full. As inequality increases in society, insecurity and unrest are also increasing, and new economic growth will not save us from this much greater loss of economic sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u366	Mr President! This travel refund case of Kela: It is true that in the early part of the year it will now increase greatly from EUR 16 to EUR 25 on those first trips. But when that ceiling is filled, it's the same roof as the old one. After all, a man with a lot of disease fills that roof earlier, and after that he will spend the whole year with a so - called zero allowance. The more people live in a remote area, the more they are used to paying for all other services. Those people aren't gonna complain about this. They're driving at that travel fee, zero, then the rest of the year. This applies to people with little or no disease who visit Kela a few times a year. This payment will then come to them, but it is quite right: they are probably working, well-off people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u367	Madam President! First of all, thank you, Minister Mäntylä, for your answer. Minister Ruhula: there is a very clear document on it in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health which I can provide you with if you wish. It's available from the Ministry, too. It is great that we are talking here about family care and, as Mrs Eestilä said, we cannot, however, pass on the responsibility for care to family carers. At the same time, however, we must also remember that 44 per cent of people over 75 live alone. They are totally dependent on other services in society, they do not have close relatives. Mr President! I would like to ask one more question about the fact that, in recent times, more and more welfare services have been transferred to the Internet and, for example, only less than 20 per cent of those over 75 years of age use the Internet, i.e. about 80 per cent of these people are not online. Ministers, how do you ensure that all of us are equal, equal in terms of services, even though our online system is being developed and more services are being transferred to the Internet?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u368	Mr President! I would now like to intervene in this debate, in that I find it a little regrettable that, when we in the opposition are here, I think we are asking some very pertinent questions and comments on these questions which are on the table today, then quite often from here in the Chamber, from the government's ranks, we begin to challenge this pattern with these rear-view mirrors. We have the right to hold this debate, to ask these questions in this Chamber to these ministers. That's what I think we're here for. Then I would encourage Mr Ruhula in particular, when he seemed to think a little bit about whether it would be worth discussing here at all if they were so far away: yes, we always have to talk. By the way, I recall that it may have been that last season, when I was sitting on the other side of that stage, already used, listen to this term. That we can check where the parties came from,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u371	Mr President! Let us have a proper discussion and answer: why have you Social Democrats been so eager to cut the sections of the state of the municipalities when, in many speeches, it has come to the fore, of course, but this is not the case, that these services are also provided by the municipalities for the elderly? It must be said to Mr Pekonen that we have more than 300,000 people in a situation such as informal care, with just over 40,000 receiving some kind of informal care support. It is these people, for example, who desperately need to be provided with day-care opportunities, foster care and so on. And family care in this as a whole is a very important, growing and evolving form of care, because for people with a start-up memory disorder it is the best place, I say, at the moment, to be a human treatment place, when those facilities began to be dismantled last season. That's the long way to go for our old-age services. That has been the direction: domestic, human services. After all, these are very important alternatives in this time period. I don't understand what's wrong with these developments. I feel like I'm listening to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u372	Madam President! Primary and sheltered homes are indeed important and have been carried out for decades and have been a challenge, and many times have already been added to the budget here in Parliament since Christmas. During the last period, a major change was made and it was transferred to state control. It is quite significant because we have even had Finland on the list, that we have not managed this activity, that we have not had enough of those places because it has been supervised by municipalities and managed by municipalities. Now, with this decision to get control, control and funding from the state level, each municipality will have a much better system than it has been in the past. But these round decisions — such a problem has been especially in the case of child supplements, when the indexation, which was here for many parties, was made, and then it is now taken away, not temporarily but completely. And then when we recreated the child allowance system that had been decades ago, that too will now be taken away. I'm not surprised that families with children are a little confused.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u373	Madam President! There has now been a great deal of discussion about social security and the incentive traps for social security and the bureaucratic problems associated with it. After all, this debate would not exactly be looking at the rear-view mirror mentioned just now, it must be said that the basic income test has been included in the government programme, which I would like to underline at this point. After all, this is a very important reform in social policy, although it is certainly not the biggest reform in the social and health sector as a whole. It is also a very progressive experiment on a global scale, and it seems to have been supported by everyone in this political field, with the exception of perhaps the Social Democrats. I would have asked the ministers how this basic income experiment is going to proceed now that the Social Insurance Institution has been elected to implement it, and what opportunities do you see in this experiment in the future to dismantle these bureaucratic incentives in the field of social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u374	Madam President! It is great that a very quiet subject has also been raised in this Chamber today, and that is violence against women and violence against couples and close relationships. It is important that the allowance for shelters has been increased, but there is also an agreement, the Istanbul agreement, which obliges Finland to increase. At the same time, there have been various demands for shelters, such as food, accessibility, and all of them also demand that additional money be made available. But it's a great thing that money has been increased. On the other hand, it must be pointed out that, at the same time as we have these after-sales services — such as a shelter — we do not have enough preventive services for these families or, in any case, for these victims. There are no helplines, there are no family services that can prevent the very difficult issues from being tackled, and unfortunately the government is cutting them off. But it's good that the shelters at least got a little more money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u375	Mr President! In the Government Programme for the Development of Family Care and Family Care, the amount of permanent additional central government funding is gradually increasing, with an additional EUR 95 million in 2018 to increase the freedom of carers and the development of family care. Thank you, ministers, for this. But, Mr President, there are already 300,000 informal care situations in Finland, some 60,000 of which are demanding and binding, but only 43,000 family carers who have an agreement with the municipality. The world is also changing in Finland, and many asylum seekers of different ages will come to Finland, and family reunification will increasingly take place in the future. In the future, therefore, informal care will also become more multicultural. In the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in particular, this is a rising and growing trend by field people, i.e. public authorities and the third sector. There is already a need for informal care guides in Persian, Russian and Kurdish. Ministers, I would have asked: have these calculations of informal care taken account of the fact that this issue, multiculturalism, and the need for services and demands are also increasing?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u376	Madam President! I will also go back to this basic income experiment and, as Mr Honkonen said in the previous speech, there has been an explanation or, in my opinion, a study project on how to proceed on this issue. There seem to be a lot of options here. One is in a certain way to make some kind of regional experiment, and the other option is some specific professional groups or similar. One idea, if we are talking about employment, could also be a kind of experiment, even for those who intend to be entrepreneurs or this type of experiment, which could affect a certain number, even though 10,000 people, between 5000 and 10 000 people, and what it will have to do with the reference group. Has there been such discussions on the Ministry’s side: what kind of target group should this basic income be tested on?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u377	The speeches have yet to be made: Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Henriksson, Mr Sarkomaa, Mr Heikkinen, Mr Haatainen. And now, ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u378	Mr President! I agree with you, Your Honor. With Eestilä that not all elderly people want to live alone at home. I myself know many elderly people who would like to go to community homes because they have so much need of help, but they do not have enough. Those living alone with memory disorders also need community homes because it is no longer safe for them to live alone in the home. At the moment, unfortunately, there are elderly people in different municipalities in Finland, often people with memory disorders who are at home, even though it is no longer the best place for them. They don't do well there with home care anymore. Continual incidents are emerging, and not everyone has a relative. That is why I ask the Minister: does the Minister have any ideas on how to get more of these so much needed community homes to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u379	Mr President! It is very important that the central government shares of municipalities rise next year, as Minister Rehula said. Last season they were cut almost every year, and it was visible: at that time, the debts of municipalities grew, taxes tightened, there were redundancies, and services deteriorated as a result, and inequality certainly grew. This is not going to happen because the government has taken this into account and has increased its share of the state. This means that there are no headlines now, that the tax rate should be raised or laid off. On the other hand, for example, these services for the elderly, as mentioned here, can be secured for families with children, the sick, the unemployed and so on, when the local government finances are in order. It is an extremely important part of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u380	Mr President! It is very good that there has also been talk of violence against women. There was also such a change during the last term of the government that anyone who is now guilty of a crime will also have to pay the crime victim's fee and this crime victim's fee will also be paid and maintained, among other things, on Victim Support Finland. I am grateful that the government is now continuing to invest in shelters, among other things, and I also hope that Victim Support Finland will remain at least at the same level as in the past. But as far as this informal care is concerned, it is also a good thing that we are now investing in informal care. It is known, however, that today the situation is different in different municipalities: in one municipality a person can become a family carer on another criterion than in another municipality. We would need a unified system that would be fair to everyone in Finland, and that is why I ask: does the government now intend to transfer the support of informal care to Kela, and in what time frame is it made?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u381	Honorable Speaker! The Parliament has now added six times to the maintenance system. It has been a clear signal that the government must include that money in the next budget proposal. There has already been a bit of civil disobedience from the ministers when this message has not been received from Parliament, and I hope that catch will now be taken. With regard to the care of the elderly, I would like to say that it is a clear challenge that we have a lot of elderly people who are at home and who are concerned that they will not be able to get out of their homes, for example, in a community home. It is clear that the central objective of the government is to make a policy that has genuinely achievable alternatives. So if you want to live at home, you have to have priority, but other options must be available. This is clearly recorded in the Government Programme. For example, there are many elderly people living alone in the capital region, for whom family care is by no means an option, and this too must be clearly seen. But the payment law for service housing has still not entered the parliament. It was supposed to come with the Old People's Services Act at the same time. Older people still don't know what they're paying for their service housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u382	Madam President! I would like to comment on this matter of carers' representation: If I understood correctly, the government pointed out that the carer’s appointment in the future would be between 0.5 and 0.4 and that it was not directly counted to 0.4, but that this responsibility of reflection was transferred there closer to that treatment event. But what is very important: this government wants to make it possible for care assistants to come to care communities. For a few years I have worked as a nurse for the elderly and also as a ward manager, and the biggest problem I had was not getting trained staff, nurses, to work. We even have 30,000 nurses outside the hospital, but very few want to come to the care of the elderly because it is considered so pregnant. That is why it is so important for us to have enough staff, including these care workers, so that nurses also feel that this work is meaningful in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u383	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that the retention system for the rehabilitation of intoxicant mothers is now being directed by Parliament, with good results, and it is also a great thing that the funding of shelters by the previous government was made permanent and will continue. But then to this big picture: Yes, the result of this budget is that families with children, the elderly and the sick — those who are disadvantaged and those who are the least able to defend themselves — are now suffering and really being hard hit here. The committee heard Professor Juho Saari, who made an excellent point about the path we are on. There is now, among other things, this issue of payment. In other words, we have increased health inequalities, even though this welfare society has expanded, and in this situation we are raising the threshold for access to and seeking treatment there. This is a very serious matter. I would like to ask the ministers: by what means are you going to follow this now, that this does not lead to those who need this treatment and care and service staying at home and we in the good people running around the doctor and then paying for our own bag if necessary? These people need our solidarity to secure access to care for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u384	Minister Mäntylä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u386	Madam President! In spite of differences of opinion, it is always worthwhile to have a debate, but the fertility of the debate depends at least on whether we are even trying to listen to one another and one another's message and message or whether we are diving into something that does not necessarily have anything to do with the subject. But, Madam President, this development of informal care during this parliamentary term, looking for ways to cope with it, looking for ways with new money to ensure that the holidays are held, that there is self-help, can we say, to improve the attractiveness of the family carer's position, in any case that has been developed? Then the question of whether Kela will be transferred: this is now in the process of deciding in this parliamentary term where the payment of informal care allowance will be transferred to the 15/18 region. That is the solution we are now making. It will significantly harmonise these criteria. Then there was a call here for a gender impact assessment of this legislation, and the representative said that 76% were women. This representative will certainly explain more precisely what this gender impact assessment means, because if the starting point is that we have one of the four family carers men and three of the four women, then it is already quite a fundamental gender impact assessment, because often it is a spouse, a loved one, one’s own child, one’s own parent. It already has an impact on which sex it needs to be treated. Then there is this inequality: we have a strong municipal self-government which, during the last parliamentary term, for example, was hit by the law on social services, and there is now a question of whether the ministers and the ministry are concerned about equality between the citizens of the municipality, so that there is no inequality in payments. It is the municipal self-government that Parliament and the government adopt laws, make regulations, which are then applied by municipalities according to their best abilities and skills. Madam President! Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate, and I wish everyone a time of unwarranted Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u387	The general debate in this section will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u388	Continue discussion on Section 33 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u389	Madam President! I am very concerned that the government, with its savings, is undermining the position of the most low-income and vulnerable people. Customer fees for health services will be increased by 30 per cent. There's going to be a rise in the share of the drug's The share of sickness-related travel expenses is rising dramatically. It is precisely those municipalities who need a lot of health services and who use a lot of medicines that are badly hit. Many hard - sick people are already living below the poverty line. Many low - income elderly people wonder if there is enough money for medicine for food and housing to pay for their pension. This is inhumane and unreasonable. Finland will not rise by making the worst of people. Finland will rise by giving us new exports and employing the unemployed. There may be some way of understanding the government's actions if they were to break the debt, but this is not the case. Among other things, the government reduces car tax by EUR 200 million and has made other unsustainable expenditure decisions. It's a debt as long as it goes on. There will be more debt coming next year than this year, more than EUR 5 billion. Under the Greens' option, cuts are more moderate and more targeted than government cuts. The domestic market will remain stronger and, among other things, we will cut subsidies that are harmful to the environment. The Greens aim to restore public finances, but our timetable is moderate and lasts for two parliamentary periods. Our budget option is about EUR 200 million higher than the government budget and we still do not discipline the lowest incomes. We are looking for growth through structural reforms. Mr President! We have much to thank, from a free land, from the veterans of our wars. I welcome the addition of Parliament to Veteran rehabilitation and the increase in services to be taken home. In the autumn, the Federation of War Ombudsmen brought an important message to the Parliament. In the case of services, the law treats unfairly those whose war injury is defined in the 10% disability category. During the last period, we partly managed to get things right when the disadvantage rate for open services was reduced from 20% to 15%. But even the most mildly handicapped war candidates need food services and cleaning services. It is good that Parliament is pressing for a further 10% reduction in the disadvantage rate. The committee proposes that a statement be made for adoption that the amendment should be made no later than the 100th anniversary of Finland. But waiting isn't a credit. It should be taken care of next year. Mr President! The cumulative impact of government savings increases the risk of poverty, especially among low-income families with children, older people and people with disabilities. This will increase inequality and poverty, as well as the need for social work services. Health inequalities may also increase and patients may be delayed in seeking treatment. I also wonder that the meal allowance for celiacs will be completely abolished. The only treatment for coeliac disease, the only medicine, is a gluten-free diet. Symbolically, support is important as it encourages celiacs to take care of themselves. Mr President! Solutions are needed in the best interests of our country, and I know that it is not easy for the government to find a lift for Finland. I would still like to see greater sensitivity to people's needs and fairer decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u390	Madam President! Even the Christian Democrats feel it is wrong to pay the cost of this recession to the most disadvantaged. This is also economically weakly justified, as these cuts are very likely to entail additional costs in the short or long term. The reduction in medical benefits, the halving of the private health services Kela compensation and other cuts affecting the ageing population can create major problems in terms of their interaction. More and more people have to rely on income support. The cuts proposed by the government also lead to synergies in the case of families with children, which have not been thoroughly assessed. Raising group sizes in early childhood education and schools weakens the basis on which children’s future is built. Reducing the number of workers from education increases the cost of unemployment. The Government's draft budget proposes the transfer of pensioners to general housing allowance. This change would have had a savings effect of EUR 31 million, but its real costs would be multiplied by the very rapid introduction of these elderly people into long-term care. Fortunately, however, this proposal has been withdrawn by the government and should be recognised by the government. The purpose of the Guarantee Pensions Act is to secure the livelihood of a pensioner living in Finland by paying him a pension from state resources if his pension is otherwise insufficient to provide a reasonable income. A full guarantee pension is granted only to those who do not have any other pensions. This pension will now be increased by EUR 23 per month. We Christians have added another EUR 10 to it, thus giving 100,000 Finnish pensioners a better future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u391	Mr President! The cuts made by the Government to the administrative sector by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are cold reading from the point of view of low income, old, sick, disabled and people who use a lot of services. In this Chamber, we have already discussed these various cut-offs today, including the huge increases in customer service fees, the cuts in housing allowance through index freezes and many other issues that affect ordinary people very much. However, at this stage I would like to raise an issue which has perhaps been discussed a little less today, namely the government's proposal to cut social security for certain groups. The European Social Rights Committee has stated that the minimum level of social security benefits is insufficient in Finland. Many people are already holding on to far too little social security and their lives are very difficult. It is therefore worrying that the government has decided to investigate further reductions in social security for certain groups of people. The Government's asylum policy programme states, among other things, that the government will explore the possibilities of changing the social security of immigrants in such a way that asylum seekers who have received a positive residence permit are not covered by housing-based social security and that the level of support for asylum seekers is lower than that of other people. The necessary livelihoods and care are fundamental human rights and social security should not be used as an instrument for immigration or refugee policy. Social security is and must remain a part of social and welfare policy. It is extremely worrying that the government is once again taking up a legislative project on its agenda, which is highly questionable from the perspective of Finland’s international commitments and the Constitution. It is against the Constitution to put people on an unequal footing on the basis of their background. I understand that the government has a political need to show hardness and to take a firm line on asylum policy, but does the government have the ability or the will to think about the consequences of such a policy? Since the level of social security is already too low, not only for those with migrant or refugee backgrounds, but for all people who receive minimum social security, we have to ask what these people should live and live on if they do not get a job. However, the necessary cost of living is the same for all. At its worst, such a two-tier system can lead to greater exclusion, more integration and more crime. From this point of view, it is also a question of internal security. Although it is proposed that the level of social security should be reduced for asylum seekers in this situation, there is a greater principle of decision and question. If we accept a model and principle in which the position of certain groups of people can be undermined by a purely background or by a general strain of opinion, where will the limit be drawn? Are we now going to reduce social security for substance abuse mothers or for those suffering from mental health problems, or for those suffering from alcoholism? Where do we draw the line if we go down this road?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u392	Mr President! As representatives of the Finnish Government Party, we are well aware of the painfulness of these cuts, and I must say that when I listened to representative Karimäki, the representative of the Greens, it sounded almost as if the Finns of Finland were talking there. I wonder, however, when it is said that these are very cold government plans, what the opposition thinks, how we spend on family care, on the rehabilitation of intoxicant mothers or on the support of families with children in general, as examples here. And as far as asylum policy is concerned and the reference to making integration more difficult, I do not think it can make it any more difficult than it has been at present, quite the contrary, it can encourage more. And I am absolutely convinced that when we add an hour of exercise a day to schools, it will have such positive health effects, which will also have an effect on people, so that less of these health problems will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u393	Madam President! There's one thing I forgot to pick up, and that's a new thing. Here, the committee has seen the need to add EUR 1100000 to these low-threshold policies, particularly for low-income associations which provide so-called food aid in these bread lines. This is a very significant addition because these associations do not receive any support through the Slot Machine Association for their activities. The Slot Machine Association provides support if there is a project and there is a reason for the project, then you can apply for operating grants or project money, but the association itself does not give money for this help. That is why this is a very significant national addition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u394	Section 32 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u395	Madam President! The Section for Employment and the Economy represents a very substantive section of the previous section, where things are, of course, very close. You have to get work, business, wealth to the Finnish country. The section has worked very hard and the honourable ministers have been very much heard. The section has drawn attention to a number of issues such as administrative problems, opportunities for developing exports and internationalisation, the importance of research and development and innovation activities, the worsening employment situation and the need for integration development, which have now been very strongly highlighted. But here I want to draw attention to only two things. I would like to emphasise these two points. The first is Finland's exports to Russia. It has given us a great deal of thought and is extremely important. This is an export that has recently been far too under-exploited, and the situation is worrying. Russia now only accounts for 5.9 per cent of Finland's exports of goods and decreased by as much as 32 per cent in January to August. Exports of almost all categories of goods have fallen significantly, and we know that, not only because of sanctions, but also because of food exports have collapsed. Sanctions are apparently not the main reason for this drastic fall. Therefore, Finland should now act actively in areas outside sanctions and plan to end sanctions in order to enable exports to resume rapidly and effectively in this respect. Experts saw new export opportunities in e-commerce and technology linked to the Russian import refund programme. On the positive side, it is precisely in the case of Russian trade that just a few weeks ago the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has started to prepare for the strong intention of improving export services to businesses, specifically to Russia. The need for development has also been strongly highlighted in the section, and the purpose of this work by the TEM is now to clarify activities and eliminate duplication. In practice, it will be done in such a way that export services will be concentrated on the Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Finpro's tasks in Russia will be discontinued. Finpro will not stop working for Russia. There it continues in part in terms of investment and financial markets, but this practical activity is now transferred to the Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce, which has been very effective in its activities. As a general rule, we have paid great attention to the export potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. There has been a good trend and good development in Russian exports and exports in general. The internationalisation of SMEs has increased in recent years, and now we already have some 20,000 international exporting companies. Although exports are small-scale, there is a positive trend in total exports. According to the SME Barometer published in autumn, about 40% of SMEs targeting international markets expect an improvement in their export mandates. We have increased the budget by EUR 120000 Viexpo's activities, 200000 Busi-nessOulu's activities, 1 million SMEs' export rings, 30,000 so-called Nord training, 70,000 support for the activities of the Consumer Union and EUR 6 million for the rehabilitation of the Kimola Canal. — The timetable seems to be over, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u396	Which one of the ministers will start? — Minister Rehn, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u397	Mr President! The government had to draw up its first draft budget in a very difficult economic and employment situation, in which we as a nation need the ability and the will to reform. Our economy has been shrinking for many years in a row, and this year growth will be very subdued, so the legacy we have received will be as heavy as the road is rocky. There are no quick wins in sight so that our present anhitless situation will be corrected overnight. We must now join forces, renew and put Finland back on the path of survival. The Government has the overall responsibility to make and support solutions to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and production. The government cannot stand by while our exports do not pull and our companies have to give far too much compensation to their international competitors. We need to correct our cost competitiveness quickly, otherwise our companies will not be able to cope with the ever-increasing international competition. So far, efforts to achieve a social pact have not led to the desired results. However, for our part, we are keeping the door open for the social partners to agree to return to the negotiating table and to reach an agreement between them to replace the proposed legislative package with a better solution and to achieve the government's objective of improving competitiveness. We need wage moderation, commitment of wage formation to productivity development with the Finnish model and decisions to promote local reconciliation and strengthen the position of employees in decision-making. This last one, that is to say local agreement and the status of staff, is being prepared by the tripartite working group that was set up last week. Now, if ever, everyone has to look at things from a wide-ranging and national perspective. This draft budget has been prepared in the context of a weak budgetary position, a very weak state. The general government deficit is over 3 per cent, and as a state we are in debt at an accelerating pace. As responsible decision-makers, we must be able to put an end to this cycle, and that is why we must make the necessary structural reforms while adapting to state-funded activities. We have had to carefully select the areas where we will invest more. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government will focus on key projects — sustainable growth,investment insubsidiary projects — over a period of three years, a total of EUR 1.6 billion,of which almost one quarter will Furthermore, existing contributions must be refocused precisely from the point of view of sustainable growth. The Ministry and its Group actors are responsible for creating conditions for sustainable growth as well as for managing employment. We will focus strongly on supporting the reform of the industrial structure. Additional funding will be directed at EUR 45 million to support cleantech and bioeconomy solutions and the commercialisation of innovations. In order to speed up exports and internationalisation, we are launching Team Finland growth programmes and increasing Finpro's funding, and I am pleased that, as Mr Kauko Juhantalo described, the Committee on Finance has supported the chosen line in its report to support export promotion and the internationalisation of companies, and I hope, of course, that the whole Parliament will be able to do so. Mr President! Here is a brief overview of the budgetary issues that I am responsible for. Finland will only rise with reforms, investments and sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u398	Mr President! We have drawn up next year's budget in an economic environment that certainly does not address the challenges. In recent history, a weak year of economic growth has always followed a weak year of economic growth. And unfortunately, history repeats itself again. Our national economy has dived in the previous years, as GDP has remained negative. A slightly more positive pace is forecast for this year, but in practice we move around zero growth. The coming years will appear in the forecasts as a plus, but we face many years of multi-billion-dollar moderate economic growth. So it is not to be expected that any hocus-pocus tricks will be done, but rather hard work to get Finland back on track. Weak economic development brings with it modest employment developments. Last year the unemployment rate rose to 8.7%, and this year is once again gloomy, with far too many news. It seems that in 2015, the unemployment rate will peak at 9.6%, after which it will hopefully continue in a more positive direction from next year. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the unemployment rate for the year 16 is 9.4 per cent. We must be able to do everything in our power to achieve more rapid positive employment trends — at least I promise I will do everything I can. In short, on the current situation: At the end of October, there were 337,700 unemployed job seekers at the TE Offices. That's 17,800 more than a year ago. We have spoken on several occasions in Parliament about young people, the long-term unemployed, unemployed job seekers over 50 years of age. Currently, there are 43,400 unemployed young people under the age of 25 who are 2,000 more than a year ago. The number of unemployed continuously over a year is 113,000, which is 7,700 persons more than one year ago. There are 126,600 unemployed people over 50, which is 6,300 more than one year ago. These figures are so large that a heavy legacy has been handed over. When this employment situation is linked to the fact that we need to put our country's public finances on a sustainable footing by means of structural reforms and necessary adjustment measures, there is plenty to do. In the context of scarce resources, it is absolutely necessary for us to shift the focus of employment management from passive measures to active measures. We also need reforms. The old lunches have been eaten. A good example is the development of local reconciliation, for which our aim is to bring the Government's proposal to Parliament next spring. In addition to employment issues, integration is a key element of my responsibility. We are all well aware of the situation: the number of arrivals has increased at a tremendous pace and we have had to react quickly to a changed situation. Previous and familiar integration measures are not enough in the current situation. Although we have proposed a significant EUR 67 million increase in municipal integration allowances for next year in the main category of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we must first of all introduce new and cost-effective ways of integration. We have prepared new measures for integration during the autumn. The new situation highlights the identification of immigrants' education, skills and language skills. We cannot wait, but we must assess the skills already at the reception stage. It is also important that the steering of municipalities works effectively. Cooperation with regions, municipalities, employers and partners is central. Immigrants must be activated quickly. It is also important because it will allow us to save taxpayers' costs and also to prevent radicalisation. In addition to speed, the keywords are activity and consideration. Mr President! Here are some of the key elements of the budget that I am responsible for.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u399	I would now ask those Members who wish to take part in the debate to make a one-minute speech by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u400	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear that the Minister said he would do everything he could to ensure that employment would improve faster than forecast. However, there is a great risk that this will not happen, because the measures that the government has planned will lead to unemployment likely to rise as the domestic market collapses and then perhaps only then to improve when exports start to withdraw after these measures. But if you look at this whole package of labour market policies, there is a great risk that we will lose a large number of skilled workers to structural unemployment and prolonged unemployment. The average unemployment rate for older people is already long-term, and the number of long-term unemployed is increasing. I would like to ask: when you have been sympathetic to the active use of passive money, could you think that this new model would be introduced in the middle of the year, because simply the money that will be provided for next year will lead to a huge increase in long-term unemployment and a huge increase in youth unemployment, because the youth guarantee is being put to zero specifically for young people who are unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u401	Madam President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy faces a major task of clarifying the interpretation of secondary and full-time entrepreneurship for self-employed persons so far who are not clearly either. Since the law comes into force quickly at the turn of the year and the situation is very unclear for many, can the Ministry of Employment be given sufficient time and guidance to interpret various types of gigs in favour of the employee as a secondary activity and not as the main entrepreneurship until the instructions are ready and can also be verified by those performing the job in advance? This would guarantee peace of work both for officials and for thousands of workers who, without knowing or knowing the instructions, dare to take up jobs in an unclear situation after the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u402	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion this autumn about employment policy and its importance, especially at a time like this when unemployment is on the rise. The government has repeatedly said that it wants to invest in the effectiveness of employment measures, which I personally consider to be very welcome and a good line. In the light of research literature, the most effective employment measures are specifically paid employment, including various employment vouchers. This 'Sanssi' card for young people has been precisely this type of employment bill, which is precisely the kind of effective form of employment support, but next year the government will be shutting down funding for this 'Sanssi card' completely. I would now like to ask Minister Lindström: how are you going to make a practical contribution to making it possible for us to move the focus of this employment policy towards these effective employment measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u403	Mr President! Long-term unemployment has indeed grown rapidly, and urgent measures should now be taken. In various parts of Finland, good experiences have been gained during the municipal trials that are now completed, where employment has been transferred to the municipalities. It is now important that these good practices do not stop — after all, the trial of municipalities ends at the end of this year — because it would be very difficult to restart them. The final reports of these municipal trials contain clear recommendations for new pilot legislation, for example, to take forward these good results of the municipal experiment. For example, I know that there are many municipalities in North Karelia that would be prepared to pilot such new pilot legislation, and I know that the Ministry is considering this. How is the preparation going on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u404	Värderade Talman! Värderade ministrar! I think it is an excellent mention of the Government Programme that knowledge must be brought together as internationally competitive concentrations. For example, if the locomotives of the leading energy and cleantech hub in northern Europe in Vaasa decide to leave Vaasa and Helsinki, the next address is China, India or Brazil, not any other city in Finland. Although the financial contributions of the so-called Inka programme, which was launched last season, did not amount to any of the turnover of companies, the programme was nevertheless likely to further increase close and good cooperation between export companies, universities and the public sector. When designing new programmes and a number of key projects, I sincerely hope that investment will be made in areas and sectors where industrial value added and exports to growing markets are as high as possible and where, above all, companies themselves are investing in research and development on a market-based basis. Thus, we are best able to create new resources to finance the welfare services of our whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u405	Madam President! Thank you for the presentations, and as a member of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, I thank you for taking our opinion into account concerns about the exclusion of young people and these additional funds regarding the situation of young people and the informal economy. I would like to ask the Minister: That is where Sitra published a report a few days ago that there might be 360,000 hidden jobs in Finland, and we have 330,000 unemployed and this matter of employing immigrants. If this is true, if companies consider that they could have such jobs, which simply do not find workers because of the problem of encounters, has it ever been established where this figure could come from? Is this part of it also part of the fact that we have now been allocated funds to increase private employment services, as well as the TE Offices, is there any attempt to make more contact with this through the private employment services? I'd be interested to hear about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u406	Mr President! When Mrs Filatov was right to be concerned about whether these employment measures are going to take place quickly enough and employment will improve, I do believe that, if this competitiveness package is brought to the end, it will immediately send the signal that investment is worthwhile in Finland and, once the faith is restored that the competitiveness of Finnish work is in order, it will also reject those projects that are thought to be moving away from here. But, of course, it would be all the more so if the social partners found an overall solution in which both these issues were dealt with. I would therefore like to continue to appeal for such a solution to be quickly obtained. I would also like to ask the Minister for Labour: when, according to the Government Programme, it is intended to try out the option for those who are the hardest to work in this area of employment, that they should be managed by the municipalities, at what stage is this and how is the experiment going to start?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u407	Mr President! Mr Satonen here said that he believed that the competitiveness package would quickly bring employment. Whether it is now called the competitiveness package or the coercive package — the beloved child has many names — yet almost all the economic experts who have made a statement about it have expressed doubts that it is at an early stage in the process of collapsing our domestic markets and hence employment. Even Minister Stubb in that toilet yesterday acknowledged that this is what is happening. In that sense, I very much hope that this labour market solution will be created, because I believe that it will be a much better alternative to our employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u408	Madam President! It was earlier pointed out that there are various experiments in Finland to employ young people. On the way to work! The project is a joint project between employers, young people and the city, which starts with a wage subsidy and provides young people with their own trainer, with whom to think about their own strengths and identify the necessary development areas. This will support young people in targeted activities, employment, education and training. In Finland, we are paying significantly for unemployment, between EUR 5 and EUR 6 billion at the moment. At what point is the Ministry of Labour considering how employment funds could also be used in exchange for education and support for youth employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u409	Mr President! The government has charged quite a lot of authority and input to take forward this coercive package or its whole. I would like to ask you, Minister Rehn: how have you assessed the impact on the domestic market of this package of compulsory legislation by the time it comes through, if for some reason it goes through? What does it mean for taxi companies, cafes, shops and companies operating on the domestic market in general, given that pensioners and unemployed are also significantly cut in purchasing power because of these government decisions? I too hope that this will lead to a situation in which the social partners would enter into negotiations on a long-term stabilisation wage settlement, which, according to almost all economic experts, would be the best way forward. Then I ask again: when we have different measures in the alternative budget and this employment bill now seems to be moving forward, would it be possible to take this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u410	Mr President! Last week, the Government's proposal 9/2015 on unemployment benefit for self-employed persons was adopted in the Parliament and, in connection with it, the committee made a call for the government to clarify how people who are working on new forms of work would get better social security, to deal with these gaps. But, in fact, this sort of explanation was made last season. At that time there was this kind of working life change trend group first at the Ministry of Labour and then at the Ministry of Labour, and it presented a series of measures. I would like to ask the Minister: do you know this good report last season? It was tripartite, continued throughout the reign, and very good concrete proposals were made to improve the position of self-employed and others. Do you know this report and do you intend to take it forward this period?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u411	Madam President! This country really needs companies that are growing and are willing to internationalise. I belong to a school that believes that the state does not choose winners, but I believe that state support for the early stages is important in areas with knowledge and potential for international markets. Cleantech and the biocluster are examples of this. I would like to remind Minister Rehn that during the last parliamentary term, a strategy for the growth of health research and innovation was adopted, which you probably know. It also stressed the competence of the pharmaceutical and diagnostic sector and, in general, the competence of health technology as a whole, which enables job creation and, accordingly, the ability to collect investment flows to Finland as well. When the committee has drawn attention to the fall in research, development and innovation efforts in its report, I would ask you: how do you see the path towards getting us back to the level at which we can get innovations out of the pipeline and commercialise them?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u412	Madam Speaker! Like Minister Rehn, I would like to draw attention to exports. Finland now needs capital, and we will then share our share here. And I particularly want to emphasise that Eastern exports, and I hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will work very effectively in this working group, where the role of the Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce will be greatly enhanced. I'm sure it knows a lot better in practice than Finpro. How is it possible that St.Petersburg shops do shine on foreign Western wines and cognacs, but not on Finnish cheeses? There's a passage where we're not perceptive enough. That is what I would like to invest in, and we have invested a great deal in exports to Russia in these many additional efforts. I hope, although of course we are on the West side and respect sanctions and many other things are now
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u413	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Juhantalo and Ministers for their presentations. It is right that the government should seek to create private sector jobs that support the economy and not, for example, resort to further expansion of the public sector. Politically easy solutions, such as debt recovery and thinking in this direction, have been tried very comprehensively during the previous parliamentary term and have not acted as hoped, only increased debt but did not increase jobs. Unemployment, of course, is ultimately the biggest problem in the economy, but it is only a symptom of the real problem that lies behind it. However, apart from the creation of competitiveness, we must take into account those special groups for whom unemployment is a particularly difficult issue, i.e. those over 50 years old, as the Minister has said here, who you may have mentioned as being more than 120,000 unemployed, and on the other hand:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u414	Mr President! The investments in the activities of Viexpo and BusinessOulu, as well as the additional investments in the operations of export rings, are necessary co-financing projects because now, if ever, we have to invest in exports. But why does Finland not succeed in exporting? Weak competitiveness is only one element. During the last period, a new line was made that an increasing part of the TEM export promotion budget was concentrated on Team Finland's operations. This has probably been a good solution for large companies, but this does not serve micro and small businesses as desired. Then you could also ask why Finland is dragging behind in an online store. I would like to ask: how does the government intend to respond to these challenges, that SMEs should also become part of export promotion activities better than they are now, and how could you remedy the logistics problems associated with e-commerce, and what does the government intend to do to improve the marketing skills of Finnish companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u415	Madam President! One question for both ministers. First of all, on corporate finance: We now know that Finland is quite bank oriented towards corporate financing. After all, in the case of industrial investment, these appropriations are now being reduced. The Government Programme talks about us also making so-called asymmetric funds, attracting private equity investors into these funds. Are we going to do things like this? And the second question to Minister Lindström: Let us talk about the reform of public employment services next year, usually the reform of employment services. In many cases, non-te-offices have proved to be highly effective providers of employment services. How are these employment services now going to be reformed so that transparency and even more customer orientation can be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u416	Madam President! Every time I see the Minister of Labour talking, on TV or in this Chamber, he talks about the need to integrate asylum seekers. That is a good objective, and he also said today that the former integration measures are not working. The question is, what is the government doing? After all, the government is taking measures which are doing the opposite, which are making integration worse. For example, the government is blackmailing family reunification, making it more difficult. I ask everyone, which one of us can do without our families? A different kind of social security for asylum seekers, i.e. making people poorer — is it working? Timely checks, so that people can be sent home more effectively — is that the way to motivate people? I'm just asking. Once again, goals and actions are not playing together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u417	Mr President! The cuts in research, product development and innovation in such an economic situation, where we should have our economy reformed, are extremely worrying. It is short-sighted to cut subsidies specifically for business renewal when we should find new growth sectors, gain productivity and competitiveness. According to Tekes' estimates, 200 new products and more than 250 patents will not be born each year. At the same time, companies' R & D spending will be reduced, as the Tekes euro will always generate EUR 2 private R & D money, i.e. these cuts will be repeated. These cuts will certainly have negative effects on employment and productivity and competitiveness in the long term. But I would like to ask the minister about the rumours of the regionalisation of Tekes in public. Are these rumors true? There is a risk that the money will no longer be directed towards the best projects if these grants are awarded on the basis of their location rather than the quality of the project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u418	Mr President! I too would like to draw attention to how we can achieve new growth and, consequently, new jobs. We are all delighted with the Paris climate agreement and the desire to stop the rise in global temperature to 1.5°C. This also means an opportunity for us. The forest industry is an important sector for us. Now the study tells us that we should be able to make better use of our own carbon sinks, and this would best be done, for example, so that we can keep these carbon stocks in products for as long as possible. And that means that we can replace steel and concrete, for example, with wood-based products, nanocells. We have new investments coming, for example, to Äänekoski, and hopefully also to Kuopio, too. How do we ensure that we actually get innovations that also carry out this carbon storage, which really means new products?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u419	Madam President! Sitra estimates that there can be up to 360,000 hidden jobs in Finland. According to Sitra, companies are constantly becoming aware that there is no work to be done. I am therefore pleased that Sitra will start an experiment in which these jobs will then be made public and that the task of the centres and municipalities would then be to find the right people for those jobs. I look forward to this, of course, and I ask the ministers, especially the Minister for Labour: should we not have much more working methods where the employer and the person seeking employment would be hit? For example, in Jyväskylä we have the Työiin service, which has produced good results precisely by applying for suitable jobs for these job seekers, because they do not automatically meet, and we have a very big problem with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u423	Mr President! That is because if you want to be an attractive country for well-off, well-educated people, then you must be an attractive country for all people, you should not be racism and you should not think that you can attract some better people than others. I'm sure they'll choose a better country if there's a lot of racism. For years, one in five of the new companies in Sweden have in fact been established by a person with an immigrant background. I would also like to ask both ministers how we are now going to improve the opportunities to remove the obstacles that asylum seekers, for example, have to create new businesses. We have heard from such examples that when asylum seekers wanted to bake and sell bread, because they do not have hygiene passports, it was not even possible on a small scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u424	Madam President! It is great that we are also talking about integration, and I know that the situation is different at the moment than in previous years. Good practices must definitely be created and further developed. In fact, Mr Biaudet hit the nail in the head, and that is the employment of immigrants: work is the best integrationist. It is true that asylum seekers are also in need of action at the moment when they are in reception centres, but I would ask the Minister more precisely what this funded work means and how long it will take. Is it also for those who receive a residence permit here? But then I also hope for answers to this bigger and wider issue, namely the employment of immigrants in general. Unfortunately, the employment rate of immigrants remains lower. How are we going to change that with these very arguments?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u425	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Razmyar, and in particular Mr Yanar's interpretation, referred to the fact that the means of adapting social security, working conditions and work placements are somehow wrong and must be believed that, once the qualifying periods are reduced and, for example, when you are allowed to go to work, the authorisation to set up a business is the solution. But I would like this Chamber to be so honest with us that who here believes that between 10,000 and 20,000 people who receive residence permits are genuinely employed under normal working conditions over the next three years — languageless, poorly educated people. This is where Minister Lindström said in the referral debate two months ago that he was prepared to do everything in his power to turn every stone, to find the ways in which these people can get to work and work. It's been three months. We're in the middle of something. I therefore ask the Minister how you will now summarise the answer to the question of how to tailor, if there are no working conditions, for example work placements, to amend the work trial law so that it is possible for the first time for people entering the Finnish labour market, and to allow for:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u426	Madam President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is the administrative sector that determines Finland's rise in terms of both the economy and employment. The budget for next year proposes a total of 2.9 billion. The reduction is EUR 650 million. This reduction is significant, but I believe that, when we invest more than EUR 1 billion in key projects, it will then bring opportunities for improving our employment and business life. Thank you to the Section for Trade and Industry and its President, Mr Juhantalo, for their efforts in promoting exports. Viexpo receives more funding and offers services specifically to small and medium-sized enterprises to promote internationalisation. For these key projects, the strengthening of Team Finland's network and the acceleration of cleantech solutions are also key issues through which employment and the economy can improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u427	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for the introduction. After all, we always have to tell the truth in this Chamber, so I say there are two ministers who give faith in the future. We have two very important issues in terms of employment, which we must do in this country. One is domestic measures to improve employment, which are specifically included in the domestic market. The second point is the competitiveness to promote exports. The future development of Finland’s economy and employment depends very much on these two factors. According to statistics researcher Timo Aro, 72,000 jobs have disappeared from the bioeconomy in Finland during this millennium, and it tells us that we also need to do so in Finland with regard to licensing and so on. In order to promote the competitiveness of exports, we need the measures the government intends to take if this social agreement is not concluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u428	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Lindström: now give me and the citizens a clear example of how the government will improve competitiveness through exports, if it brings sick people to work, then shorten holiday time, cut holiday money, increase customer fees and increase both day care fees and social and health care service charges, and thus affect the purchasing power of citizens, low-income people. Should we not be doing exactly the opposite, i.e. improving people's ability to work, well-being at work, skills, ability to cope, and thus also strengthening people's livelihood and thus purchasing power? What is the government's logic for this competitiveness and strengthening employment? For some reason this does not open up to me, nor has it opened up to many other citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u429	Madam President! I have spoken in this Chamber before that there will be no job creation if employment is not economically viable. But there is also another issue that affects employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u430	Madam President! That is where I listened to the good speech. It is precisely for small entrepreneurs that I have often thought about, and they have been in contact with me too, that hiring the first employee or hiring another employee is a high risk, that is also the situation of personal chemistry and that it is much more difficult anyway. Fortunately, this EUR 2500 now comes into this parenting money, which will, of course, make it easier for it. In fact, I asked for this speech when Mr Yanar said that there was little investment in integration at the moment. Yanar should read this paragraph 7. There are a lot of good measures here that the government is doing for integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u433	Mr President! In the context of these coercive debates, it has been pointed out that the government has made itself involved in this process, a party, and it has certainly influenced this atmosphere in the labour market and whether it is possible to obtain this socially important wage settlement at a low level for a long time. I'm asking you about this whole thing: What plans does the government have in case there are no large-scale labour market solutions of this kind, a long low-wage solution, and if you do not get coercive legislation through the parliament as an alternative? What then happens to growth and employment, what options do you have for this whole? Your option at the moment is the third option, as it were, of the initial additional 1.5 billion cuts, but that will lead to further growth being frozen and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u434	Mr President! The Government’s efforts to create new entrepreneurship play a key role. Today, business incubators are located across the country where start-ups can get help for the start-up and entrepreneurs can network with each other efficiently. These activities are concentrated with the population in cities, where entrepreneurs in sparsely populated areas are unable to use these services. However, there are more and more comprehensive information networks in our country, the capacity of which will continue to rise. I ask the Minister for Industry: do you think it would be appropriate and sensible to create a digital incubator service? An entrepreneur using this service, irrespective of his place of residence, could use various expert services and network with other companies operating in different parts of the country using an online service. By developing services of this kind, we would improve the chances of startup entrepreneurs to succeed elsewhere than in the largest growth centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u435	Madam President! Minister Rehn, you are in charge of the key project, which is specifically responsible for strengthening competitiveness, and which will certainly consider the new tools to re-emerge Finland. One of the engines of growth could or should be the dismantling of standards, which, especially in the case of the TEM, will certainly bring dynamism to the Finnish economy. I know that this whole is a matter for Minister Berner, but yesterday's decision to liberalise shops is a good example, and I would like to ask you this too. So when will a good decision last night be followed up, and when will we be able to say again that by dismantling standards we will make our competitiveness a little better?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u436	Madam President! The government has good objectives in managing employment. Efforts are being made to transform passive unemployment into active management of unemployment and, on the other hand, to develop the Youth Guarantee in the direction of the Community guarantee. The only problem is that there is no funding for these projects. There is a great deal of funding being cut off from both sides, which is why I would like to know how these changes are to be made. I am pleased that the Ministry and the government have heard precisely the wishes of the opposition and the demands for increased funding for the treatment of youth unemployment. So we don't get the wrong picture in history books: It is the Greens and other opposition parties in the Committee on Labour who are calling for this money for youth work. The government did not demand this money in its own statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u437	Madam President! Indeed, Finland’s important role and the important role of this government is to get exports to pull out. Without income from foreign trade, this country will not be able to cope with these challenges that we face in this parliamentary term, and in this respect I think that trade in Russia has been neglected. However, Finland has a common land border with Russia more than 1,300 kilometres, and according to information, Prime Minister Sipilä is meeting with Russian President Medvedev next year, and this would be necessary if we were to get the message from this house that there is an absolutely necessary desire in Finland to increase trade in Russia and create new relations there, because we have a product palette that is very well suited to Russian trade and has always agreed. I would have asked Minister Rehn when, however, he also has economic relations with previous Commissioners and EU times: what is your relationship with the Russian ministers and trading partners at the end? There is a real need for trade in Russia to bring this country up. This trade with Russia has been overlooked.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u438	Mr President! I would like you, Minister Rehn, to be able to assess the impact of the Paris agreement on climate change: what time frame, and how large may they possibly be for our companies, energy policy, exports and, therefore, employment? If you are not in a position to judge now, I would hope that, in February, even if there was a communication to Parliament or perhaps a report on this important issue. I would ask Minister Lindström when the report states that there has been a shortage of municipal seats for those who have been granted residence permits since 2009: how can we think now that in a few months we may have between 5,000 and 15,000 to integrate, where can they find municipal seats, and how can we be prepared not to have any slums in large cities?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u439	At this stage, I will give four more replies, after which the ministers will answer for 5 minutes, both ministers individually, and the four will be represented by Mr Kalmari, Mr Jaskari, Mr Paatero and Mr Aalto. — Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u440	Madam President! There has been talk here of promoting exports as target countries Russia, China, India, but many countries see the rise of Africa as a huge potential. I would like to ask Mr Rehn how we could be better involved in the future. In addition, I would like to ask, with the support of the Committee on Finance, that we now want to encourage the export efforts of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that we have a great list of top projects and more than one billion dollars in this term of government for key projects: What concrete message, for example, could I give to the glowing entrepreneurs in my own province in the circular economy, renewable energy, energy efficiency, cleantech sector, companies operating in all these sectors? What kind of concrete action will result from these? And again...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u441	Madam President! First of all, I have to comment on Mrs Rinte when you are terribly concerned about what will happen to taxi companies, cafes and others. We are also concerned, but we are also concerned about what is happening to Finnish export companies, to industry, which have been losing price competitiveness all the time. It would have to be put in order to get domestic companies to play as well. Are you at all concerned about Finnish export companies or not? Then there is the question of genuine local reconciliation. Now that we have talked about research and the lack of comparison of research, when decisions are made on local agreements, should we compare a little, for example, in Sweden or in Sweden? What has happened in Germany when this local agreement has started to be increased? 250,000 new jobs are being created, for example for the next year in Germany, with a significant share
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u442	Madam President! The question of Russia too: how has the current government assessed the impact of sanctions and when will they be re-evaluated at EU level, and what is Finland's line on these points, because it is one stone at the moment in the direction of Russia, how are they viewed? We need more export industries, we need cleantech and bioeconomy, we need Arctic know-how, health technology, education and everything else, because we have now been, as we know, heavily dependent on the wood and metal industries. But we need industry and other measures to do this. We have in the proposal the Socialist option of helping exports with emissions trading compensation, so that industrial companies can act, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a halving of fairway charges, which, as Mr Jaskari has just said, would improve the ability of export companies to operate. But then we also need those innovations, and that is why I am very sad that Tekes is being taken away from EUR 100 million, which would have produced, as has just been said here, EUR 1 from Tekes, EUR 2 from companies for that research and product development. We're here now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u443	Representative Aalto, followed by ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u444	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Labour about the problem of matching the labour market in the face of increasing structural unemployment, the worsening of long-term unemployment and, above all, the worsening of long-term cuts in education: how is the government trying to get free jobs and free workers to deal with each other better? This problem of matching the labour market is a serious problem when I have studied statistics from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. To Mr Jaskar, I would say that in industry, the unit labour costs in Finland are lower than in Sweden and Germany. In Finland, the salary of a highly skilled person is significantly lower than in Germany or the United States. We have a significantly lower and highly competitive corporate tax level. After Austria only in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u445	We will continue the debate, of course, after the ministers have spoken, but now first the answers. Secretary Rehn, or who's gonna start? — Minister Rehn, up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u446	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very constructive, proper debate. Although at the beginning it seemed that this was mainly Question Time for the Minister for Employment, it also became matters for the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am starting from the view expressed by Mr Filatov that the measures proposed by the government in the competitiveness package would lead to a deterioration in domestic demand more than a corresponding improvement in exports would help to improve the situation. In this regard, it should be noted that the government has chosen the path of gradual adjustment rather than a sudden path to halting debt. In other words, we adapt public finances over a period of several years, five to six years, over this current parliamentary term — which, of course, will require a responsible economic and budgetary policy in the next parliamentary term too — and we will avoid making too large cuts too abruptly, which would have a negative impact on short-term economic growth. In Finland next year, this budget will result in a net adjustment of around one billion roughly, which corresponds to around 0.5 per cent of GDP. In the years of the euro area debt crisis, when programme countries had to make significant adjustments, Portugal did at a level of between 2% and 2.5%, Spain and Ireland at a level of between 1.5% and 2%, i.e. three-minute, four-fold compared to what is being done in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u454	Minister Lindström, up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u455	Thank you, Mr President. I try to go in this order as these questions began to come to me. Mr Filatov asked about this use of active unemployment benefit, i.e. this new model, its introduction in the middle of the year. It will be done as a monkey, as soon as possible, because we know that we will have fewer of these employment funds, we will need those new tools, and I certainly have the will to do so as soon as possible. Can it be introduced in the middle of the year, I will sort this out, because I, too, certainly need these tools. Representative Järvinen, on this job, on the self-employed and on this HE 94 and related instructions: That guidance is being prepared, the so-called wire model, on that side of the TEM, and it is of course a good guideline for this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which has drawn attention to these issues. So I have instructed you that it should be clear. You asked if it could wait for that time, this law, that this instruction is complete. I dare not promise such a thing, but I dare promise that this guidance will be made as clear as possible. Representative Andersson, on youth pay support, the Sanssi card and this effectiveness in general: Indeed, I have said in the past that I have met with the leadership of the E-section of the E-centres, and this effectiveness is a word that has emerged in every debate when we have talked about these measures in relation to unemployment. Wage support, start-up money are actually impressive measures, and they are not in any way going down, but rather focusing on those measures that actually produce results. It is quite clear that it may be that a measure which then fails to achieve results may be a little less in this blackmailing situation, but these are not part of it. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen asked about these experiments and a few others, perhaps referring to these municipal trials of long-term unemployment and then to these pilots and how they progress. This study group, which has done this work, is now completing its work so that, at the very beginning of next year, we can then draw conclusions as to whether or not this experiment should be taken forward. So the decision as to whether or not this kind of trial of long-term unemployment has not been made, but first it has been prepared. The municipalities have been involved in it and, of course, they have been TEM-driven. That decision will be taken right at the beginning of next year on how it will proceed. Many people here — Mr Meri, Mr Paloniemi, Mr Aalto — drew attention to this same issue, namely these hidden jobs and the problem of encounters and what is being done about it. One of the key projects is this reform of the labour market administration, and it has now come to an extent that we already know little about the idea and idea that is, in a way, the juju. Of course, it involves these private and public employment services, to which Mr Jaskari also drew attention. They associate with each other so that we can make the information go smoothly. Of course, these icts are involved, and they are invested in, this digitisation, that these systems are talking to each other, that information is passed on both employers, labour providers and recipients of work, that this is flexible and clear. That's what's going on. We already know how to build it. This problem in itself, which is not just this problem of employment services, is related to housing also, it involves this pendelature, all of this kind. This is a wide-ranging issue. These are, of course, things that we, within the government, will then have to ask ourselves, among other ministers, what we are doing here. I see that the clock is ticking and the Search List is not showing, so that I take this one question that Mr Kiljunen asked me. Iron wire: what is this idea? I'm trying to be very clear. According to Statistics Finland’s statistics, we lack EUR 30 billion of money, export income from this country, so that we can keep this public economy at its current level. It's behind this whole thing. We're not like that. At least I have not understood that by making these so-called competitiveness packages, cutting some people's benefits would be export revenue. No, no, no. At the same time, measures must be taken, among other things, by the business community. This is an economic issue, and that is what this is all about. I do not know if this answered this question, but this is how I see it. This is why we have to do these things, and at the same time we are trying to make industrial policy work in order to create those jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u456	So, and then we will continue the debate, and here I am, first and foremost, handing out these speeches, which were already made, but of course, I believe that for a long time we will continue to do so. Let's take Mr. Filatov first. — If I may say that Mrs Filatov is the chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, and here, traditionally, we also have respect for the tasks that exist in this House, as well as for the granting of the floor, and I am sure everyone will be given the floor. — — — — Congressman Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u457	Mr President! — One of them was the reply, because the name was mentioned and talked about things. But as far as this government logic is concerned, that domestic markets are being blocked or saved, especially from the public sector, and are being transferred to the open sector, if we look at the expert opinions that came out of this coercive package, we were also looking for alternative models for how to do this same thing less adversely. In that sense, it is worth seriously considering what the VATT or Aalto University have done from the point of view of fiscal devaluation, or the Social Democrats have proposed the use of Emu buffers, because it would be less trouble for our home market. But what is important is the effectiveness of the employment services in the circumstances in which we have a problem with encounters. I think that the Ministry has made the right choice to increase a little private employment services when our public employment services are too congested. But here it is worth remembering that the private employment agency is effective
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u458	Madam President! Question to the Ministry of Economic Affairs sector. Our country will be increasingly dependent on electricity imports in the coming winters. The forecast of the peak electricity consumption is known, and the production capacity of domestic electricity has decreased. At peaks, electricity must be imported at up to 3400 megawatts from neighbouring countries. There is little room for room for failure in production facilities and interconnections. I asked a written question recently: "What does the government intend to do to ensure sufficient electrical energy and to improve the use of hydropower?" You replied: "The profitability and adequacy of electricity generation capacity is a general European concern. Low price causes profitability problems in power plants producing electricity without separate production subsidies." On the basis of your answer, increasing hydropower was not the answer to these problems. The answer did not give me a clear picture of Finland’s guidelines for electricity production in the future. Do you, Minister, have a comprehensive strategy in the Ministry? On these security of supply factors
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u459	Madam President! Indeed, Finland has been in a triple deficit for several years, and the government has set out steps to achieve a broad social pact or a broad labour market solution. The SDP has been very diligent in evaluating this competitiveness package. I would like to ask the SDP, led by Rinte: Are you fully and fully in support of this wide-ranging income solution? You're not in any way a brakeman, are you? At least I don't think so myself. This entry into the municipality of the most difficult people to employ — I will ask Minister Lindström to do so. So the municipalities have moved on to missions,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u460	Madam President! Many very successful companies have been created with the support of the municipality. One of these companies is in Ponsse Vierema. Vieremän Kehtilas Oy, a municipal economic development company, has built company clusters around Ponsse, all of which are domestic, i.e. export rates and domesticity rates are very high. According to the current legislation, this Premises Ltd., the municipal business company, can no longer receive an investment grant that would lower the investment threshold and possibly attract more subcontractors around Ponsse. So I ask Minister Rehn: is this policy perhaps being reconsidered to make this possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u461	Madam President! It is true that the most serious flaw in this government proposal is that there are no employment measures here and now. They shine once and for all with their absence, and that is a very big problem. Then, when we talk about this very destructive package of forced labour, which is believed that by cutting people's wages it will become competitive from there, it has become apparent and there is reason to suspect that even then this package of forced labour will not come. If it falls, we have heard that the government has no further plans, no plans. After all, on Monday, Mr President, the conclusion in this Chamber was that the government does not have long-term or short-term employment plans, and that is an inconceivable idea for the economy of this country. You will freeze our competitiveness next year when you wait for this package of compulsory laws, and the continuation will also be very uncertain. There were very critical statements about this package of coercive laws, including through the impact on employment and so on, so that does this make sense now or does it not, as was asked? Would you please, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u462	Mr President! It must first be mentioned that the economy has fallen over three years and exports to Russia have collapsed worryingly, as Mr Juhani has mentioned here, and over seven years, industrial jobs have fallen by 100,000. But it must also be said that money has not disappeared from the world. We have huge global opportunities if we can only take advantage of these. My question is: do we have the skills, the courage and the will? We need growth policy measures. Then, as has been said here, we have opportunities for bioeconomy, cleantech, healthy, technology, digital, transport and so on. These are opportunities, thought of, for example, in China, and now I recently went on an export trip to Iran so that there are such opportunities. It is now time for these measures to be taken with courage. I would also like to say to Minister Lindström that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u463	Mr President! I want to thank you, Minister. Lindström, on this clear statement on pay subsidies and start-up money, namely that these measures are not being driven down. However, I would like to ask the Minister a more specific question: what does this mean in practice? Does this mean that the Minister will see to it that, when the appropriations are to be reduced next year, the resources earmarked for these measures will remain at least this year's level, or what does this policy in practice mean? I would also have asked specifically about this "Sanssi card" aimed at young people: is it going to get some kind of follow-up?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u464	Madam President! Earlier in the day, Mr Andersson, as well as many experts, criticised the idea that, in order to promote integration for immigrants, certain social security elements should be set aside for consideration, i.e. that in order for them to be eligible they should take part in education in Finnish or Swedish, for example, or in other forms of integration training. There has been talk of equality between people. Now I ask Minister Lindström: do you intend to oblige the Kansana Finns to take part in Finnish or Swedish education or integration training, for example? To Mr Yanar, I would say that it may be that difficulties in family reunification are not conducive to integration, but we cannot have very different practices from those in our neighbouring countries in the Nordic countries unless we want tens of thousands of asylum seekers per year in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u465	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs the following question: over the last few weeks, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Turkey and Russia have been pecking quite heavily over there in the Middle East, and Rosatom is building the first nuclear power plant in Turkey in the city of Mersin in southern Turkey. Reuters reported last week that Rosatom might have stopped the construction of nuclear power. For political reasons, can Rosatom consider stopping or stopping construction here in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u468	Madam Speaker! Municipalities are still struggling with the balancing of the economy this year and are having to negotiate. However, the Te-keskus has now pointed out in parts of the cities that if the municipality is negotiating, it is not possible to employ the long-term unemployed or young people on the municipal workshops with a pay subsidy. I would like to ask the Minister: could these guidelines be harmonised between the Centres, and preferably so that during the negotiations, the municipality can employ the unemployed in these workshops by means of pay subsidies? It cannot be that if a municipality tries to lay off a school assistant, for example, it cannot hire a metalman in a workshop who has been unemployed for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u469	Madam President! It is a pleasure to hear ministers say that these jobs are being created. A good example of this is the EUR 6 million allocated to the Kimola Canal project. It will certainly create jobs in the North Kymen Valley and in East Hame. These key project issues, which were raised in Mr Rehn's speech, are also maintained. I would ask whether there might be opportunities for Finnish clean water in that world, and when we go to the world, whether there should be even more export of this water issue there. It is an opportunity for small companies to bring out their own products. As far as employment measures are concerned, I know that the wage support system is working very well, and I hope that the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, will drive this pay subsidy strongly, because it is actually a genuinely effective measure of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u470	Mr President! Finland’s competitiveness problems are not just due to the cost of work. We can never compete at the price, our competitive edge is always quality and competence. We need products and services that sell on the world market, because no matter how cheap the cost of work is, if we do not have products that sell, that cheapness of work will not help. That is why we should invest in, for example, the bioeconomy, digitalisation, health technology, robotisation, knowledge and education. Unfortunately, despite the government's key projects, the government will reduce funding for science, research, innovation and, for example, Tekes. The experts consulted in the Committee on the Future stressed that government measures and investments in these sectors were insufficient to improve our competitiveness. One problem is that our good ideas do not turn into products, and on the other hand we do not know how to market and sell our products.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u471	Mr President! Funding for the development of a vital bioeconomy for Finnish workplaces is largely directed through Tekes and the Academy of Finland, which in the past have been mainly used by large, traditional companies. Has the Ministry taken into account that the opportunities for innovative and smaller companies to receive funding are also improved, that they are also able to go here to commercialise their own innovations and find new customer groups? It has also been pointed out in previous speeches that this dismantling of standards and the dismantling of business and investment standards applies to both the Finns in Finland and the possibilities for immigrants to employ themselves. In this regard, has the Ministry made any progress in the preparation of, for example, the possibility of using earnings-related resources in the future for self-employment and not just for the search for a finished job?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u472	Madam President! There has been a lot of talk about homeliness here, and I would now like to remind everyone that — and I am also guilty of this myself — those of us who can afford, buy those domestic products and travel in Finland. There's often only that "Made in China" behind that jacket, and that doesn't support that domesticity. But it was not the subject of my request to speak, but the fact that Mr Järvinen spoke here when I was also a member of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, that the opposition was the only one who presented money, indeed, in a different opinion, and I had the feeling that the opposition was the only one who drew attention to this. I cannot talk about what others have to say, but I can tell you what I have to say there. I was the one who referred to the fact that we should add to this statement: we have received very good feedback on young people's work and on the employment of young people. These differences of opinion alone do not make this policy. Of course we're talking to people. That's why I don't really like the kind of speeches that people let you understand, like this paper is the only thing that can bring more money here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u473	Madam President! A historic agreement was reached at the Paris climate conference, and key countries are now committed to a rapid and increased reduction in emissions. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has launched the preparation of a new strategy for energy and climate change, which is to be brought to Parliament at the end of 2016 as a report, and I would really like to ask Minister Rehn at this stage: How will this climate conference in Paris, the climate agreement, be reflected in this strategy? Is this strategy also going to make clear choices towards renewable energy, renewable energy technologies? Unfortunately, these previous strategies have been somewhat troubled by the fact that, although there are great goals there, the choices have not been clearly dared to make or choose the paths by which these objectives will be achieved. I would like to ask about this: what is the way in which we are now going to ensure that this will also lead to concrete results as required by the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u474	Madam President! Norway is known to be much more expensive than Finland. Nevertheless, in Norway, medicines cost more than 20 per cent less than in Finland. This is because in Norway pharmacies can compete with each other. There is a legal cartel in Finland that determines who are the pharmacists who are allowed to try and how many pharmacies are allowed to be in Finland. In addition, the Authority will decide on the price level of medicinal products. That price level has been chosen according to the fact that the pharmacy is also profitable in a quiet remote area. If it is profitable there, it means that a pharmacy in growth centers is very profitable. If pharmacies could compete with each other, the price of medicines would certainly fall. Has the Ministry considered the option of amending the legislation in such a way that if the pharmacist meets these criteria set by Fimea, he will be allowed to set up a pharmacy and by converting this price from the current fixed pharmaceutical price into a ceiling price, which would make it possible to compete? If Finland reached
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u475	Madam President! We have rightly been concerned about the effectiveness of the employment services. I do not want to put the public and private employment services against each other, but I would like to remind you of the complementary role of the private employment services and at the same time take advantage of the situation, and I would also like to remind you of the experiment carried out during the last parliamentary term in Uusimaa and Pirkanmaa, where the private employment services have produced successful results. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities visited England and Ireland, where we were familiar with the situation of those who were difficult to employ. In particular, I remember the good results of London in terms of private employment, when compensation was paid for the results, not just for performance. I should like to ask you, Minister Lindström: when the academic unemployed are quite forgotten about this debate, how can you see that they can be offered a personal employment service? It's a waste of expensive education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u476	Mr President! I will return to this competitiveness package, to which the opposition is so happy to return. For I do not understand why we government parties are reminded from one week to the next that agreement would be a better option than this package. I have not heard a single representative of any government party speak during the whole of autumn or winter, where agreement would not have been considered a better option, and this has already been attempted many times. In this regard, this repetition is getting a little numb. Well, considering what the point of this is, if we have to resort to this competitiveness package, I myself have understood that when the employer costs are calculated, competitiveness will generally improve in that respect. And that loss of income must then be compensated with some other income for central government finances. Of course, competitiveness consists of many things, such as taxes, labour costs, logistics costs and so on, and the government has never claimed that competitiveness will be based only on this package, but we have also highlighted these other factors, as well as local reconciliation and wage moderation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u477	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Lindström, who has rightly raised these digital employment services: When this reform is being carried out, could you ensure that the employer receives more information? Today, for example, the employer knows nothing more than whether or not the wage subsidy has been granted, but there is no information on the amount of the wage subsidy or the date of the start-up — it comes only when the employment relationship should begin. Similarly, the employer does not even know who are unemployed. It would be better for employment not only to proceed through job demonstrations but to be directly employed by the employer. What do you think about the possibility of such reforms? And I would like to finish by saying that, despite digital services, we must not forget the personal service.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u478	Mr President! The budget for next year's employment management is insufficient. Cutting employment and pay subsidies means that fewer long-term and youth unemployment will be able to work next year. Unemployment is prolonged and the threat is a permanent increase in structural unemployment. Active employment policies will not eliminate unemployment alone, but can maintain people's ability to work, prevent exclusion and cut unemployment and prevent it from becoming structural. I am also concerned about the adequacy of the start-up money. I wonder how many companies will not be born next year when the start-up money runs out. This insufficient funding will also have an impact on the local government economy as long-term unemployment fines increase. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: are you prepared to bring an additional budget for employment care in the spring as soon as there is no pay subsidies, or are you going to bring additional budgets just to cover rising unemployment security expenditure?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u479	Madam President! It seems that it is as much fun for socialists in this Chamber to talk about forced laws as it is for Finns in every election. Each one of them, i.e. the Finns of Finland also like to talk about forced Swedish when they start talking about escapes. There was also a proper question here from the Social Democrats as to what the employment policy is now. Firstly, it must be said that this government believes that entrepreneurship is the key. Of these appropriations, which are used by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, 32% will go to industrial and innovation policy and 26 % to employment and entrepreneurship policy. This is one important issue. On the other hand, the public employment and business services model will be reformed, i.e. to better activate these employment and economic development offices, and they will be specifically tasked with setting up a business- and employer-oriented employment service, and will then also be presented through 10 million key projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u480	Mr President! That's what worries me. There are policies. There has been a lot of talk here about, for example, this bioeconomy, digitalisation, cleantech. There are lines, but where's the concrete? The question is what really happens in the bioeconomy, for example. At the end of the day, about 100 million are the key projects in the bioeconomy, Tekes' money has been cut for four years, university education has been cut off, education has been cut at all, and this knowledge of education is a prerequisite for job creation in this area of high technology and know-how. So what I'm asking is, concrete, when are we gonna get concrete?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u481	Madam President! The best way to tackle unemployment is to introduce the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is truly strong, 100,000 companies in this country, who are waiting for the moment when investment could be launched. This requires decisive action by the state. Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Industry: for the development of small businesses, it is absolutely essential that we be able to build fast broadband connections throughout the country in this country. Is it possible, for example, to obtain European Union regional development funds for this project? Many municipalities still lack this possibility, and if we do not get these high-speed broadband connections to this country, it would mean that companies will not be able to operate in those circumstances when broadband connections are not working. Would this be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u482	And then I will give you five more answers, followed by the answers of the ministers. And these five representatives are representatives of Turunen, Mäkelä Jani, Kiljunen, Karimäki and, finally, Juhantalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u483	Madam President! In this speech, I would like to raise this matter to the fram of local reconciliation. In my opinion, Mr Vartia has taken a very strong position here that there is a very different way of dealing with things in different companies. A small company with one job, one foreign employee, or a company with 100 foreign employees, is in a very different position. When that one employee is out of work, 100 percent of the job is out of work, and this would mean that all 100 are out of work in a big company. That's when it's strike time, isn't it? So, in everyday life, you face things differently. Here the Social Democrats asked this question that if this competitiveness package does not go through Parliament, then so what. In fact, I will continue to ask this question a little bit on my own: when we have a chaotic situation at that point, can it then be thought that this local agreement could then be increased more than is now envisaged?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u484	Mr President! We have now listened to six months or more in this Chamber when the left-wing opposition says, among other things, the word forced law. However, it is now the case that the jobs that this government is trying to get back were very much lost during the period of the Socialist Minister for Labour. A worker is a man with a job, by definition. We'd have to get more of those jobs. Now we are looking at ways of getting more of these jobs. So far, I have not heard a single motion from the Social Democrats on the creation of any productive job. I wonder if this would be the night when I hear from the Social Democrats the first proposal for a productive job, that is to say a profitable job, not a job that the taxpayers are paying for, but one that generates positive tax revenues. When am I gonna hear a show like this? Is there more than a mouthful about this, is the jacket really this empty, or are there going to be performances?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u485	Mr President! First of all, we are at a very serious point, and that is why we must now say, for example, Mr Elo and then also Mr Mäkelä, that it is somewhat unfortunate that there is such an arrogant concept of forced labour, which targets savings specifically for low-paid people in the female-dominated public sectors, and that we should take things lightly. These are very big, serious questions for these sectors and for these people. Then, Minister Lindström, unfortunately, this wire model did not really reach its destination. The lack of EUR 30 billion in exports cannot be a reason for these savings to be made, particularly in relation to domestic demand, the weakening of well-being at work, and it seems that the government does not currently have a clear line on how to strengthen or how to strengthen the skills of these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u486	Madam President! The new climate agreement in Paris gives hope to Finland and the world as a whole, but the objectives are more ambitious. The fact that the world would not warm up by more than 1.5 degrees would also require us to update our energy and climate strategy. Mr Myller has already asked about the issue of bioeconomy, digitalisation and cleantech, but one thing is that environmentally friendly choices should be as easy and profitable for consumers as possible. For example, if a resident installs solar panels on his roof and supplies surplus electricity to the grid, why does a resident in Finland not receive compensation for this according to the market price of electricity? Why is there no such net billing in Finland, as in many other countries, and what is the government doing to promote this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u487	When Mrs Rinne is very naturally using the term'mandatory law', she clearly misses the time when there were real coercive laws here. The Finnish Parliament, the highest decision-maker, was humiliated behind the shoulder when the labour market brought in contracts that could not be changed. We must be pleased that the present Parliament has the courage — and we must be a little proud of it — to express its own view of how the difficult position of Finland can be corrected here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u488	Then the answer of the ministers. First Minister Lindström? Please, five minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u489	Mr President! If I started with these integration issues, which were not answered for the first time in that period. Above all, this integration of immigrants or asylum seekers who receive its residence permit is at stake. How to remove the obstacles to enterprise, Mr Biaudet asked and, for example, took hygiene passports. One problem is, among other things, these bank accounts. The government has taken action in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u493	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u494	Mr President! Let me start with Mr Filatov. It was very interesting, and it is particularly interesting to ask whether you are in favour of a fiscal devaluation when referring to certain research institutes. This is what Etla has proposed and supported, among other things. It would have its own advantages from the point of view of the rapid correction of cost competitiveness, but on the other hand, the fiscal devaluation, which includes an increase in VAT or an equivalent measure, is more unfair from the point of view of income distribution than the legislative package proposed by the government. It would be far-reaching for pensioners, students and the unemployed, not so much for those in work, precisely because it would normally involve raising consumption taxes or, in this case, VAT. As Mr Terho said in his own speech — I repeat — we are seeking a social agreement or a broad labour market and economic solution, no matter what name it is, because it is the fastest, most sustainable and, at the same time, the most fair way to improve employment, save jobs and create new jobs. Unfortunately, however, it is not only the strong political will of the government, but above all the ability of employers and, on the other hand, the employees to agree. That is why it is important to continue to encourage, and no, not a line of action, that the decisive and negotiated forces, both in the employees' movement and on the employers' side, should be given a stronger position and be able to sit down at the negotiating table and agree on wage moderation and measures to remedy competitiveness. This would clearly be better for the country than any other option. The representatives Juhantalo, Hautala, Hoskonen, Östman and Elo, perhaps others, asked about the promotion of exports and especially about the direction of the East, especially Russia. That is what we are investing very strongly in. Team Finland has received a new domestic service model, which is based on customer orientation and the one-stop-shop principle, i.e. the Finnish SME receives all the services it needs from a one-stop-shop, whether it is the promotion of exports or the application for funding. At the same time, the commercial representation resources of Finpro and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be increased in priority areas such as Africa, to which Mr Kalmari referred, especially in Asia and also in North America, as well as in certain parts of the South Middle East. I promise that if next year the opposition raises fewer interim questions, I will certainly spend more time and energy on the export promotion journeys I have already made this autumn. But I've spent quite a lot of time here with you to answer the interim questions, and it's always gone from something, it may also be out of the way to promote exports. Minister Toivakka recently visited Iran, conducting the largest, largest business delegation of all time. It is a good example of the fact that we must move quickly now and try to reach this opening Iranian market. For my part, I was in the Arab Emirates recently, and we worked hard there to promote cleantech and health and export in many sectors. Mr Juhani referred to Russia, Russia's exports, and in this respect, when we talk about political and economic relations between Finland and Russia, we have a different value base with Russia, but the same track gauge. We are part of the European Union, we are pursuing the rule of law and democracy, we are not adopting a policy of force, but at the same time we are dealing with everyday practical matters such as trade and economic cooperation and the promotion of energy cooperation, as normal as it is possible under these conditions. When Mr Hoskonen asked about my own contacts with the Russian ministers, I have kept in regular contact earlier, then during the Commissioner's time as Vice-President of the Commission and now as Minister to my Russian colleagues at ministerial level or at the Deputy Prime Minister's level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u495	Then we will at least move on to the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u496	Madam President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy includes integration. It will be even more challenging in the future as a result of this international migration. The massive increase in the number of asylum seekers will also require measures in the future, at the stage when some receive a residence permit. Municipalities are in a state of turmoil, and according to this autumn's report, among other things, the compensation to municipalities is completely inadequate. You don't want to wonder why you don't want to find any municipal seats. Instead of integration, repatriation may be more topical, as the number of asylum applications is surprisingly low, and hopefully even more so in the future. We should now invest in this repatriation. Then, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I will also draw attention to the rehabilitation of the Kimola Canal. I brought this up yesterday in the area of LVM, but this needs to be emphasised. This is something that enables tourism and other business activities to grow in the Päijät-Häme and Kymenlaakso region. Creating opportunities for action is an excellent industrial policy, and this is a model example of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u497	Mr President! In the 2016 budget, the grant mandate of Tekes will be cut by 129 million. The impact of the cuts by Tekes on Finland will be that 200 new products will not be born on an annual basis, while at the same time reducing the stakes of companies in RD activities. Therefore, these negative effects recur. Tekes' operations have been very impressive, and Tekes has been involved in 65 per cent of significant Finnish innovations. The turnover and jobs of companies funded by Tekes increased more than other companies and the companies have been satisfied with Tekes’ activities. For example, Supercell’s Ilkka Paananen has stated publicly that “without Tekes’ loan we would not exist”. The government's key project money is a bit of a trick, as Tekes is forced to cut much of the same areas that the government invests in with key projects. As a result, Tekes invests less in both digitalisation, cleantech and bioeconomy than before. Business subsidies can be either economic reform or preservation, and Tekes' funding is specifically economic reform funding, and will have a long-term impact on maintaining and improving the competitiveness of businesses and on the creation of new products and jobs. On the other hand, sustainable business subsidies give companies a short-term competitive advantage without an incentive to regenerate and develop competitiveness. Even stable subsidies are sometimes justified, but the government's solution, for example, to reduce the electricity tax paid by mines, while the new creative and economic reform aid is being cut, seems to me to be short-sighted. During the last government term, the mines were transferred from the reduced electricity tax category to the normal electricity tax. The idea was to encourage mines to develop energy-efficient solutions while raising tax revenue for the state. The raising of mines to the normal electricity tax may be considered to be State compensation for the exploitation of our national assets in a situation where there is no actual mining tax in Finland. Now the government recounts the mines to a reduced electricity tax, i.e. to hand out a hand to the mining companies. The cost of this is EUR 27 million per year for taxpayers from 2017. At the same time, a huge amount of funding for research, product development and education is being cut out for economic reform and new jobs and growth. It is therefore necessary to ask whether this makes any sense and whether this is a sustainable future policy. There are worrying news and plans about the regionalisation of Tekes in public, and I asked the Minister about this, but I have not yet received an answer. Until now, Tekes' financing decisions have been made nationally so that all projects have the same criteria regardless of where they are in Finland. The aim and principle has been to use tax money as efficiently as possible, and the internationally recognised phenomenon is that successful innovation is concentrated in multidisciplinary growth centres. In Finland, such centres are in particular the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Tampere, Oulu and Turku. If the government is really planning to regionalise Tekes' money, then there is a risk that the money will not come out of all the best projects but that some good projects will not be funded and that some bad projects may be funded simply because of their location. This is something we cannot afford, especially in a situation where the total funding of Tekes is falling. We need different regional development funding instruments, but I do not see that Tekes' RD funding is the right instrument for this. I would like the Minister to be able to comment on this. But finally, I would like to say that next year a new energy and climate strategy will be prepared, and it is very good and necessary for it to be put in place. Hopefully, there will be a sufficiently high level of ambition in the preparations and this Paris climate agreement will be taken into account. Hopefully this new strategy will take particular account of enabling and supporting small-scale energy production and building energy efficiency measures and smart energy systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u498	In this context, as information has been given, some people have been here to ask how this evening is going: we will complete this list of speakers, and perhaps there will always be a debate between them. Then we move in the order discussed in the morning, so next we go to the State Department, which is 24 sections, then 29 and then 33, so good morning to everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u499	Mr President! Representative Sarkkinen gave a very good speech on the impact of the reduction in Tekes' budget on Finland's research, Finland's entrepreneurship and thus the export opportunities and Finland's chances of rising from this economic crisis. Mr President! The government has failed in active labour market policy, since in the summer the budget for subsidised employment was completely exhausted. They ran out of start-up money, and they couldn't start a business. In Uusimaa, the Ely Centre did not receive start-up funds for companies from the summer to the long autumn, and, most shameful of all, in the case of people with disabilities, the distribution of employment subsidies was discontinued first when the last few funds were prioritised. In autumn, the minor amending budget for employment management covered only a fraction of the needs of the whole country. Employment has been treated with a smaller flame than the increase in unemployment requires. In Espoo, for example, long-term unemployment has increased by 50% a year. We can no longer afford to run out of employment appropriations. I will call for closer monitoring and faster response next year, if necessary by means of an additional economic evaluation. Improving the conditions for small businesses is essential for employment. Reforms to reduce the obligations of small entrepreneurs and red tape are being carried out. Let's lower the risk of employment. The probationary period for small businesses should be increased to six months and support for the first employee of the sole entrepreneur is needed. Tackling youth unemployment is one of our most important tasks. It is truly regrettable that the government abolishes the Youth Guarantee and weakens the funding of youth workshops and outreach youth work. On the other hand, new ways are needed. Many young people want apprenticeships, but it is difficult to find. Germany’s low youth unemployment is partly due to the apprenticeship system. It is easy and inexpensive for businesses to take young people into training, and young people mainly find employment in the company after the training period. The apprenticeship system must be reformed in such a way that it becomes a viable form of education and a way of working life. Structural reforms in working life are now vital for Finland. We need to combine coal and local reconciliation with small businesses, so that everyone can count on Finland to succeed by working and entrepreneurship. It is good that the tripartite working group will examine the promotion of local reconciliation and the role of staff. Another key issue that should be promoted is the expansion and consolidation of the work bank experiment. Through the employment bank, companies can employ part-time and long-term unemployed without risk. Many are thus given access to employment and access to permanent employment. Thirdly, an unemployed person must have the opportunity to become an entrepreneur. This means that unemployment benefit could be used as a start-up grant. I hope that this reform will be implemented quickly. The promotion of part-time work is also central, as in Sweden, for example, high employment has guaranteed part-time work. Many parents of young children would like to work part-time, but government restrictions on day care undermine opportunities for part-time work and job opportunities for the unemployed. Mr President! Finally, reconciling work and social security is the best remedy for dismembered working life. Basic income encourages you to try and make all work worthwhile. It is important that the basic income experiment be launched soon. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u500	Mr President! The Government’s objective is to raise Finland’s economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure funding for public services and, of course, social security. This balancing process has been initiated immediately. Debt-to-GDP ratios will be reduced by the end of the parliamentary term and the debt-to-debt ratio will cease as planned in 2021, bearing in mind that in 2011 the target was to end the debt-to-GDP ratio. That was not a success at the time, but the objective in itself is still a curative one, and that must be achieved. I welcome the fact that, in this situation, it has been taken that the overall tax rate should not increase during the parliamentary term. Representative Karimäki, members of the Finnish and other government parties on the Finance Committee added EUR 4 million to the youth workshops and outreach youth work. As a result, overall aid will remain more or less the same, regardless of this difficult economic situation. Nevertheless, it can of course be said that the total budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, EUR 2.9 billion, represents a reduction of EUR 648 million. There is no denying that the reduction is significant. However, I see that it is only by improving the operating conditions of companies that it is possible to correct the situation in Finland's economy, by encouraging entrepreneurship and dismantling regulations and standards. This has been the case, for example, with the liberalisation of shop opening hours. I therefore welcome the fact that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy accounts for 32% of the budget and for 26 % of the budget for industrial and innovation policy. This is a clear choice of values when the opposition often asks about these. On the other hand, I would like to list some excellent initiatives in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy: Action in the field of economic and innovation policy – they will strengthen competitiveness and economic growth. The capacity of companies to exploit the opportunities created by global value networks will be improved in the bioeconomy through clean solutions. In particular, start-up, new businesses will be financed. Here too, in this debate, this was well raised. I personally welcome Team Finland's growth programme, and it now supports the goals of the bio-, digital and clean solutions key projects in promoting internationalisation, exports and foreign investment. As I pointed out in my reply, I hope that the government will be open to the development of trade relations, particularly with Asia, as a member of the China-Japan friendly groups. Fortunately, according to the current Government Programme, the Government aims to promote exports, especially the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and trade with Asian countries. Of course, it is true that Japan, for example, has been in a very difficult economic situation for years now, is a sort of paper tiger at the moment, but countries such as China are still leading the world economy, and I believe that this is where it is strongly continuing. A particularly great opportunity for Finland is the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank (AIIB), which Finland started to set up in the first place, and that was a good thing. There is a huge need for infrastructure investment in developing Asia. It can support the commercial policy objectives of a small country such as Finland and the export industry. In fact, I am currently reporting on this ALLB, i.e. how a small country such as Finland can make use of it. However, we have very strong expertise, for example, in logistics or construction companies, and a good reputation. A small country can manage with precisely that quality, a good reputation, and what I have spoken to, for example, Chinese business representatives and then their trade policy representatives, this reputation is well known. Of course, I would also like to give this report to our good Minister for Employment and Justice, Mr Lindström, and Mr Rehn, in due course, and perhaps there may be some ideas to follow up. But I see that Finland's traditional line, namely that exports are being lived, is still up-to-date, and I believe that there would be even more opportunities than we have anticipated so far. One interesting opening came from the Swedish Embassy, i.e. a train connection through the archipelago to Stockholm from Helsinki. This is precisely the kind of opening we need, a very bold new one. That is also what I hope of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u501	Mr President! I just want to clarify this situation with regard to youth guarantee funding. In other words, of this original 60 million annual TEM administration, there really will be nothing left next year. There the reduction will be 30 million, and next year, on the OKM's side, some 6 million were being reduced from detective youth work and youth workshops, of which the Committee on Finance returned 3.75 million. In other words, this appropriation, added by the Committee on Finance, does not compensate for the cuts that were made in the youth work and in the workshops.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u503	Mr President! The employment situation in Finland is serious. The number of unemployed job seekers will continue to increase and unemployment periods will increase. It is precisely in this situation that a wide range of measures should be taken by the government to support employment and employment. Longer unemployment reduces the likelihood of employment and increases the risk of permanent disadvantage and exclusion. It is therefore extremely worrying that an increasing proportion of the unemployed are long-term unemployed. In addition, long-term unemployment has now also expanded to those sections of the population which previously had a relatively high level of protection against it. It would now be necessary for the government to take swift and effective measures to remedy the situation. The government continues to rely stubbornly on its coercive law package, although its implementation and its effects are very uncertain. By cutting wages, labour costs can be reduced, but at the same time purchasing power and domestic demand are reduced. It is wishful thinking that coercive laws would encourage companies to invest on a scale that would solve the employment problem. Instead of a unilateral policy of dictation, the government should continue to seek to support a policy of mutual agreement. Mr President! Young people are particularly concerned. The total number of young unemployed job seekers aged under 25 is already 45000. The unemployment rates of young people have also increased slightly, although the majority of them still end in less than three months. For short periods of unemployment, thanks are given to the Youth Guarantee, which strengthens the skills and employment of young people. The guarantee was intended to offer each young person a place of work, work trial, study, workshop or rehabilitation. Unfortunately, this experiment ends now, during this reign. The euro, which has been invested in supporting young people's employment and preventing exclusion, returns itself in many ways. The Youth Guarantee measures have been successful in preventing exclusion. For example, after primary school, the proportion of people entering further education is higher than ever, as was stated in our committee. Especially at times like these should the government do everything in its power to get a secondary degree for each young person and thus to go on building up his or her life. However, the Youth Guarantee is now being driven down. At the same time, the government will also drastically reduce the funding for vocational education and training, which will be seen as a direct reduction in starting positions. As if this were not enough, the government will also cut funding for workshops and outreach youth work. Searching youth work reached nearly 25,000 young people last year. This seems to the government to think that this is too little because it reduces funding. In other words, the conditions for action are being removed not only from the education and employment of young people, but also from the services that have helped young people who have fallen out of education and labour to date. This is absurd, especially in economically difficult times, when it is even less common for the less educated to offer jobs. This is a real disservice to the young people of Finland and the future of the country. The cost of exclusion is at least EUR 600 million each year because of the increase in social security costs and reduced tax revenues. The millions that the government now saves with these short-sighted measures have suddenly been spent on the increased costs of disadvantage and exclusion. Mr President! Under the Socialist option, these harmful cuts will not be made. Instead, we have proposed a number of ways of improving employment and promoting exports without putting the domestic market under pressure. For example, an employment voucher would activate unemployed people to seek employment while lowering the employer's threshold for hiring an unemployed person. Investments in repair, transport and housing would be encouraged to create new jobs and reduce the debt to repair. The entrepreneurship package of the SDP contains ten proposals to support the financing of businesses and, in particular, the growth of small enterprises.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u504	Representative Andersson and then ministers, in the order they agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u505	Mr President! The inadequacy of employment appropriations is one of the main pains in the Government's draft budget next year for the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. There has been a debate on this subject within each amending budget during the autumn, but it is clearly worth continuing. There is a great deal to be clarified in the labour market debate. The first point to be clarified is the whole purpose of labour market policy. Active labour market policies are designed to maintain people’s ability to work and to manage their lives and thus contribute to employment. Through employment measures, it is possible to keep people's periods of unemployment short and thus to promote employment in the future. That is why labour market policy is extremely important, especially at a time when unemployment is on the rise. If this is not done, people will have longer periods of unemployment and many may become long-term unemployed. Long-term unemployment is one of the major structural problems facing the Finnish labour market. After the recession of the 1990s, unemployment remained permanently higher and many did not re-employment at all. This structural problem is very costly, both humanly and economically. However, there are many problems and shortcomings in active labour market policies. It is not fair and effective labour market policies to put people at risk for courses that are of no use to them, or to have unemployed people do unpaid work at the risk of losing subsidies. In the light of research literature, the most effective of all is to invest in forms of pay subsidies such as employment vouchers, which allow a job seeker to receive a decent salary and financial compensation for the employer. The "Sanssi" card for young people was a good example of this kind of employment voucher, but unfortunately the government is in its budget for next year to stop funding it. Attention has been drawn to the effectiveness of employment measures, and it is therefore noteworthy that the focus in Finland, however, has been shifting over recent years to just unpaid measures instead of paid ones. Unpaid measures present significant problems of abuse and, from the point of view of the job seeker, are less likely to lead to a job. Mr President! This year, most of the countries were out of employment appropriations at the beginning of the summer. In this Chamber, the government has accused the previous government and said that the budget was inadequate in this year's budget. But how could the previous government have predicted just how unemployment will develop in this country? That is why it is extremely important that the development of unemployment is also addressed in the amending budgets, and that is not what this government has wanted to do. When the budget is exhausted, it is no longer possible to make wage subsidies and start-up money decisions, which will lead to longer periods of unemployment. In Finland, higher unemployment than ever before has been predicted in the 21st century, and despite this, the government is prepared to cut the employment budget already this year from an inadequate level. Ministers, I do not understand how you intend to make this equation work. Finally, I would also like to correct Mr Zyskowicz's earlier remarks in the debate. I criticised the government for its plans to create a separate social security system for those who moved to Finland from elsewhere, which would be lower than for the unemployed in Finland. This proposal is unequal. In addition to this, I think it should be made clear that social security for both unemployed Finnish and unemployed immigrants is already in consideration in the sense that it requires participation in the measures and training provided by the Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u506	Minister Lindström, a few minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u507	Mr President! In my earlier speech, the question raised here in a few speeches was not answered in relation to the Paris climate agreement and its impact on employment and competitiveness. Today, together with Minister Rehn, we are in the TEM jam, the management group, giving a message that this kind of impact assessment is being carried out, and it is working on it. This is, of course, of interest to what the effects are, and the answer to that is that the matter is now being clarified on the TEM side. Over and over this whole conversation: We all have that same worry, unemployment. The methods may be a little different. There has been a great deal of criticism here about this government competitiveness package, which is also called forced law. Of course, this is not the first time this has happened. Statement by Mr Kiljunen: He still did not understand what this was all about. I cannot say this any more clearly than that if we lack 30 billion export revenues, how on earth could we react without interfering in these painful matters? And there's an alternative. That's been told all along. If the social partners agree on this, we would be happy to withdraw these unfortunate laws. But it's a matter of making up. Above all, thank you for the constructive nature of this debate, and there have been some very good alternatives. As I've said before, I don't despise any options. Representative Karimäki talked about using unemployment benefit for start-up money. Yes, this is what the government is taking forward. You talked about reconciling work and social security. Yes, the government is taking forward a basic income experiment, among other things. And to the end: Representative Elon's expertise must now be expanded: And now that I've labeled him Elon the author, now he's also a scientist Elo. So I will be happy to accept this report when it will be completed in due course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u508	Mr President! Here we have more energy-related speeches in previous rounds, and I would refer, among other things, to the speeches made by Mr Marin, Mr Mölsä and Mr Sarkkinen. Many of these issues relating to energy policy and energy policy policies - virtually all of them in fact - will be dealt with in depth in the preparation of the recently launched national energy and climate strategy. Issues such as the development of a renewable energy support system for small-scale energy production, as well as the security of supply of energy and electricity, are at the very heart of the preparation and preparation of this strategy. We will come back to them many more times in this Chamber and in other forums when we go through these questions. Among other things, the security of energy supply to which Mr Mölsä referred is a very important issue. At the moment, domestic electricity consumption exceeds domestic electricity production by about a fifth. Last year's figure was 22 per cent. In the short term, this is not a big problem because the Nordic electricity market is functioning and the electricity price is low across Europe, including the Nordic countries, but we cannot lull on it for a long time. That is why we need to think carefully and then make decisions on how we can ensure security of supply for energy and electricity before Olkiluoto3 is ready for the year2019and during its timeFennovoima,Hanhikivi1as planned in2024. Regarding Mr Marin's very important question on the impact of the Paris conference on energy policy, employment and competitiveness: This is expected in the context of the preparation of the Government Programme for energy policy, i.e. it will set the share of renewable energy at more than 50% over the next decade, which is in line with the Paris decisions and the EU's 2030 energy and climate agenda based on it. The most challenging question will be how we can halve domestic oil and how we will be able to achieve very ambitious transport fuel targets. We will also return to this in the context of the preparation of this strategy. What is very important, as Minister Lindström said, is that we have launched an intensive impact assessment from the point of view of employment and competitiveness, because on the one hand, the Paris Conference will open markets for cleantech and clean solutions — great, great opportunities for us on the world market — but on the other hand it will also put pressure on the Finnish energy-intensive industry, and we must ensure that we do not have any difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u509	Although the Minister’s arguments for exceeding time were exceptionally good, the time has now been exhausted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u510	Mr President! It's the ministers that's leaving. I was just about to say that I appreciate the presence of ministers and their active participation in this debate. Mr President! The labour market is changing in Finland. The work on offer is changing shape, professionalism and education are becoming increasingly important, and new areas of work are emerging in Finland, and old areas of work are slowly disappearing. In this situation, where old ways of thinking no longer work, it is right to ask why the social partners are building potters when deciding how the supply of work and the factors involved are to be met. At the moment, we have an average of 62,000 jobs open for which no factors can be found. How can employment and job creation be promoted? Why is it more profitable for an unemployed person not to accept work than to work? The answer to this question has been sought through various studies, both in Congestion Finland and in the wilderness of Kainuu. Good answers have also been found, but the social partners cannot find a common denominator with which both sides could feel successful in their respective roles. In the end, there is only one sufferer and loser — he is unemployed. It is therefore right to ask whether the time has come to reform the entire labour market system. While waiting for this miracle, we could at least do the following things, and I say that while we think that the role of the opposition is reprehensible, I do not blame it, but I blame it for its constructive openings: more flexibility is needed, both in terms of hiring and in terms of unemployment security. One of the fastest job-creating measures is to increase the employment conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises with targeted subsidies and to increase the number of apprenticeship allowances. Another important measure is the continuation of unemployment benefit when accepting short-term work. The third measure is to clean up unemployment queues by actively transferring those who are unable to work in line for disability pension to the disability pension. This would leave active applicants in the unemployment queue. Fourthly, support for large industries should be linked to employment in Finland and investment in Finland. Fifthly, the potential of the third sector must be mobilised as a major source of employment in the social sector. It is estimated that the third sector could bring up to 50,000 new jobs if, for example, citizens' donations to the third sector were partially tax deductible. This would be a truly active labour market policy. It should be possible to agree on these measures as soon as possible, as not all unemployed people want to remain unemployed. During the last term of the Government Programme, Infra Oy was set up to launch new large national investments. From the worthy ministers who have just left, I would have asked if this project is progressing or if it has been completely buried. This project is interesting in the sense that in this very situation, when interest rates are negative and Finland’s ability to borrow is good, the creation of such a separate Infra Oy would enable the State to act as a catalyst for major major investments, which would create a large number of jobs throughout the country, and especially investments that could affect our infrastructure for a hundred years. There are active people unemployed in Finland who expect to receive work. These obstacles should be actively removed and, at this point, I would have invested more money in removing them than the government is now doing. I am sorry that so much more money was put into so many other things, but there has been a lack of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u511	Mr President! The main issues to be taken into account in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy can be summarised in three points: Firstly, Finland lives on exports. Secondly, exports are very different from expert services to industrial products. And thirdly, the domestic market is also of course important, but as a country with 5.5 million inhabitants we cannot create enough business without a strong export industry. In Sweden, SMEs account for a very large share of about 50% in the export industry. The corresponding share of Finnish SMEs is about half of this. Parliament and society as a whole must act in such a way as to improve the opportunities for SMEs to operate on export markets. Internationalisation grants in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy serve this purpose in different forms. Some of these could be added in the parliamentary reading of the draft budget. Mr President! The 2016 budget includes adjustments in expenditure to the current situation, but at the same time the functioning of society will be improved to better meet the requirements of international competition. From the point of view of Finland's exports, the climate agreement approved in Paris can be considered a positive sign. The Government’s aim has been to develop cleantech and bioeconomy. The Paris Agreement also allows companies to sell existing products and products developed through key projects to export markets. This has been the objective of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in the budget, enabling new sectors and the green economy to develop in Finland as an export product. The government's actions are criticised for adapting expenditure. This is a very one-sided view. The criticisms raise individual points of the Government Programme out of context and thus try to prevent reform and stick to the old one. The debate will focus on purpose-oriented adaptation. There is an active silence on various measures to increase employment and equality between citizens. The best way to deal with unemployment is to offer people work. Now we need to create opportunities for growth for companies, which will give us new jobs in Finland. Our country has no chance of leaving our economy in the current situation without active action to promote economic growth. It should also be possible to advance the implementation of good records promoting entrepreneurship in the Government Programme. I am referring here to the tax points that were included in the government programme. There has also been talk here that unemployment benefits should be available for business as a start-up grant. Of course, this can already be done, but obviously it means that it should be possible to use it as a start-up grant free of tax. During the last parliamentary term, the SDP held three important portfolios for the future: the Minister of Education, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour. The outcome of the action is now visible. Perhaps something could have been done differently at the time, especially since the first countries in the euro area had already been hit by a very difficult economic crisis. We certainly agree that we do not want our country and our people to be subjected to the same financial discipline that many other EU citizens have experienced. There's no time to lose.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u512	Värderade Talman! One of the key tasks of economic policy is to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship and to invest in new opportunities for sustainable growth. For example, deregulation and deregulation are an example of the government’s welcome efforts. And as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I can say that the objective of the work is genuinely and concretely taken into account in good cooperation and in a good spirit across party boundaries. It would also be important for further progress to be made in the construction of the comprehensive social pact envisaged by the government. However, it is important to remember that our country's economy will not be turned into a sustainable growth path through any form of enterprise or work. It is good, but it is by no means enough that we build apartments for each other or chop wood for our neighbor. I sincerely hope that everyone in this country understands the importance and potential of high industrial value added and exports to growing markets in building the welfare of our country. One new job in the high-processing export industry automatically creates several other new jobs in the subcontracting network, logistics, services and so on. Public research, development and infrastructure efforts must mainly be directed towards areas and sectors where industrial value added and exports are at the highest levels and where companies themselves are also investing heavily in research and development. Or perhaps in response to this Tekes debate: follow where new money is created through exports and through industrial value added. Maybe it's a good place to head for that public money to make a new one. If, for example, the locomotives of the leading energy and cleantech concentration in northern Europe in Vaasa, which import billions of euros and employ tens of thousands of people in their own ecosystem, decide to leave Vaasa and Helsinki, the next address is China, India or Brazil, not any other city in Finland. It is in the interests of our whole country that different regions are developed from their own strengths. Only then will we be able to create internationally competitive concentrations through which new money will be created and imported to finance the welfare services of our whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u513	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is an extremely important section for Finland, because if we want to create new jobs and livelihoods in this country, it means that good things will happen on the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. As a first point, I would like to raise the issue of foreign trade. This country will not rise without export trade. Every euro that comes from that country creates the growth with which the domestic market develops. It is more or less half the share of foreign trade and domestic markets, but the weight of foreign trade and foreign currency income in this basket is definitely higher. If exports do not go on, it means an ever-increasing number of unemployed people and a lower standard of living. This is something to remember. I just read in the paper a few hours ago that Finnish Prime Minister Juha Sipilä will meet President Medvedev next year. The aim is, of course, to revitalise trade relations, and to mobilise Russian trade is of the utmost importance for Finland. In his own time, Urho Kekkonen taught us that trade in Russia will increase the country's standard of living, and we still have to rely on it. It is true that these sanctions by the European Union are still in force, but we have to take care, despite the fact that one day the market will run. That day is not yet in sight, but, above all, trade relations must be maintained and relations with the East must always be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u515	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u516	Mr President! I was thinking of continuing the debate on what I have just talked about in this debate on energy and climate policy. The Paris climate conference can indeed be regarded as historic from the point of view of its scale and the commitment of the various nations and also of these ambitious climate objectives. Of course, it will only become a turning point in energy and climate policy when these ambitious objectives will hopefully be put into practice and hopefully also as soon as possible. As I mentioned earlier, at the moment a new energy and climate strategy is being prepared in Finland, which is to be brought to Parliament in 2016 for discussion as a report, and on this I already asked Minister Rehn and he gave me a good answer to this. I would have liked to thank the Minister — unfortunately he had already left the Chamber — and I would like to continue on this subject. Earlier, when last season was made such an energy and climate road map until 2050, it was set up such a parliamentary energy and climate committee to do its work. Since this is an issue that unites both government and opposition parties, this is an issue that goes on beyond the parliamentary term, it is therefore very important to involve the various parties as widely as possible in this work. Informally, work between parties is already being done. An energy reform team has been set up in the Parliament with members from different parties, and that is why we are trying to promote an ambitious energy and climate policy in this country, which will eventually be put into practice. And this is a good start, but it is certainly not enough, and that is why I really hope that this new energy and climate strategy will also be the subject of parliamentary work. What should we now do in this context, in what way could we take advantage of the potential of this Paris climate conference and, on the other hand, also respond to the objectives that were set for the various countries? Of course, we must see these issues first and foremost as big opportunities for Finland, as opportunities for both Finnish industrial policy and exports. This can be important for us in the way in which new business activities are created in Finland, in which way companies can create products on the world market. And there will be a strong demand for these people now if these objectives of the Paris climate conference are really to be implemented. This means not only renewable energy technologies and renewable energies, but also the development of electricity storage and transmission technologies, but also, of course, the development of energy saving technologies and investment in energy savings, which is not only about this energy production, but also about energy saving and what it is possible to achieve in this area. Of course, construction, both new construction and renovation, plays an important role in this, and I would have liked to ask the Minister how things on this side of Finland are going to be put into effect and how this energy saving aspect will be included in this whole as well as possible. Then, on this policy of the government on a broader scale, which has been discussed here in the past, and which debate will be continued later today: It is unfortunate that politics is so contradictory that, on the one hand, we want to make this energy and climate strategy, for example, and that this opens up new opportunities for us in the direction of industrial policy, in the direction of exports, which is a good thing, but, on the other hand, the government is cutting significant amounts of funding from education, research, innovation. I find it a little difficult to see how this equation is going to be implemented, while, at the same time, we should develop a new one and respond to these new challenges and opportunities, we are going to eat up this base, which should help us to build this new business base then. In other words, I see that in many respects the policy of the government is contradictory, and I would like to see these cuts in education and savings seen from the point of view of this energy and climate policy, so that, even in this difficult economic situation, it would also be brave to invest in education, research and innovation, because that is what we need, so that we can actually do what is required by the Paris agreement on climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u517	Mr President! The sectors in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy are one of our growth-oriented sectors, and everything that is done there refers to our well-being and that growth, to everything we can do to get this country back on its feet. We need entrepreneurship, without businesses we cannot have employees, and if we do not have this whole, then we will not have tax revenue to increase the cake in this society. We need to act in this society so that we can create the conditions for entrepreneurship. It is extremely regrettable that, despite many attempts, the social pact was not brought forward, and I must say that the work of the social partners seems extremely irresponsible in this situation, where we are at the moment. There is no problem on either side here, but this ACP action does reflect the irresponsibility, once and for all, of looking at the navel which would not be necessary at the moment. The fact that the ACP was still criticised by its own people and that this critic, the North-Based shop steward, is being fired for showing compassion for low-paid carers is certainly beyond my understanding. Mr. Speaker! Well, what do we have to do to move on? The government cannot stay on fire, yes, decisions must be made, and they will certainly be painful solutions, and then we will have to deal with this through these competitiveness packages. We need to adapt our economy, we need to make the sad cuts, and so on, so that this economy can be balanced. We must remember that we have EUR 100 billion in debt for this parliamentary term... I think we are already on the verge of being over it, and next year there will be more than EUR 5 billion in debt, and we all realise that this cannot be the case year after year. We have been living beyond our resources for at least eight years now, and if we cannot turn this around now in the next few years, we will have extremely serious problems within the euro area. The Bank of Finland has made its own calculations: we and Greece are at the end of Europe in terms of investment, and that is why we need to convince companies that they want to invest in this country, that they want to grow in this country. Mr. Speaker! Where is growth available? We have extremely good natural resources in this country. In the bioeconomy, which we have as the government's top project, there are prerequisites for increasing the well-being of this country, in domestic energy, in bioenergy. Better use of forests has growth in bioenergy, wood construction, better processing of our natural resources, our forest resources, is fuel making and so on. We need what we have in the woods. We are talking about energy, and we need peat from our natural resources to support it. The main thing is that we get to lower imported energy, that we get to lower oil consumption, that we get rid of coal. They are the ambitious objectives that we must drive forward. Mr. Speaker! From that region, the border between Southern Ostrobothnia and Central Finland, I look forward to the investment that is coming to Äänekoski with a great deal of warmth. It has enormous benefits, the opportunities it offers. The radius of its well-being is wide. It collects more than 5 million cubic metres of wood from a radius of 150 km and 1.5 million cubic metres from a distance. That means that to get that tree moving to Äänekoski, too, we need a functional infrastructure. The basic roads have to be in order to get that tree from there along the small roads to there. To Äänekoski or other further processing plants, the road must be in good condition, but we also need a functioning railway. That is why we need to pay more attention to these. There are two specific projects: highway 18, road link between Central Finland and Southern Ostrobothnia, and the Haapamäki railway. These both have a future if we want to do so. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u518	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been quality speeches here today, and that is where Mrs Kanerva encouraged me to do so, so let us try to do so. On the basis of the presentations by the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Rehn, there has been a serious debate on Finland's employment, immigration has been ignored, unemployment policy, projects, the bioeconomy. I would also like to draw attention to some of these points in my speech. I mentioned the Kimola Canal as a good employment project for Päijät-Häme—Kymenlaakso region. Representative Savola has just brought up the big projects of the forest industry in Äänekoski. They also affect Southern Finland. Such a large industrial project has a very wide impact, and the share of the road, the share of the railways, of the roads, in order to mobilise the wood, will play a very important role. Also in Kuusankoski, a new pulp mill is inaugurated in January, and therefore all such major transport and infrastructure projects are important. Mr Rehn, Minister for Renewable Energy, in many of his remarks, raised the issue of renewable energy, and I also believe in the potential of renewable energy. We also have positive projects in our own regions, and I hope that ministers in their own ministries will drive these and mobilise the bioeconomy. A good agreement was reached on climate change issues in Paris during the weekend, and climate change should also take place here in Finland. In order to get Finland in order, Finland must also return to the roads of the agreements. I believe that a joint agreement between the social partners would be extremely important in this area, and I would also like to see climate change here at the labour market table. It has been said here on many occasions that there is now a need for attitudeal changes on both sides of the table, and I myself want to be part of this group, so that I urge the organisations to take this seriously. They agreed in Paris, where everyone took responsibility but also gave in to some of their own goals. This could also be a good lesson for Finnish negotiators in their own labour market negotiations at the moment. At this point, the opening of Mr Palola seems encouraging, and I believe that this is important. During the day there was also a lot of talk about immigration and the employment of immigrants, and Mr Yanar spoke strongly in favour of immigrants, asylum seekers and family reunification. This is a very important issue, but it is an immigration policy and it is often confused with employment policy. In Finland, however, I believe that work-related immigration is quite different. People who are leaving the world are coming to Finland, looking for jobs — it is the desirable work-related immigration. They are not leaving their country to escape unstable conditions, but are genuinely coming here to seek a job. For this group and for over 300,000 Finnish unemployed, this management of immigration policy is a major challenge, as the Minister of Labour, Lindström, raised here in his speech. After all, a work-based immigrant does not need asylum, does not need a family reunification agreement or an integration programme, but actually enters the same labour market as the one you signed, if you are looking for a job, can also be a citizen of another European State or of an African State. This is where you often want to confuse these terms and confuse this immigration policy, which is of the utmost importance to you. That is where I have every confidence at the moment in the way that Mr Lindström and Mr Orvo are dealing with it, and I would like to thank them very much for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u519	Mr President! At that stage of the debate, I asked a few questions about the left-wing opposition and the Socialist Group's proposal on how to create more jobs. I did not receive an answer to that question, at least not from Mr Screaming. He brought up a package of socialist entrepreneurs. I read through that package quickly and said that it was mainly a tinkering with the internal market, with only one measure that could, in theory, contribute to export — a different matter as to whether anyone believes that it would promote exports. Otherwise, this conversation has been like talking to the Docent, so when you ask a question, you don't get an answer, you get a new problem. And this new problem, which I heard there, was one of these mantros which the opposition in this Chamber has been saying for six months along with its forced law, and that mantra is a women-dominated low-paid sector. Is it the case that the social democrats are not so interested in the employment of men when we are constantly talking about this female-dominated sector? Isn't male employment important? I think it's important. I am very concerned about the unemployment of men, which can lead to exclusion and problems. The unemployment of Finnish men is of particular concern. It says here that immigrants need to be employed. However, the majority of immigrants are men for some reason, and when men are already unemployed in Finland, how could these men enter employment when they are less educated and less skilled than Finnish men?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u520	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u522	Mr President! In fact, I would have responded to Mr Mäkelä earlier if I had received a debate. When Mr Mäkelä talks about productive work and suggests that, as it were, this kind of tax work, i.e. paid from tax assets, public sector work, would not be productive work, then you just have to wonder what you are referring to. Do you think you're going to get two terms mixed up now, i.e. productive work and productive work? If we did not have education, if we did not have day care, if we did not have social and health services, then we would not have any other work in this country. In other words, society is not just a narrow section, a narrow sector, but society is a whole of both public and private work, and these support each other and are necessary to enable another work to be carried out. In this sense, I certainly do not understand Mrs Mäkelä's references, and I hope that
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u523	It was, of course, excellent that Mr Mäkelä quickly declined to look at the entrepreneurial package, which, however, has EUR 140 million in measures to facilitate the position of businesses of all sizes and promote entrepreneurship. As far as exports are concerned, we have done exactly what we have done here. We are proposing a measure on the network of export locomotives, which is supposed to respond to the very question of fate, that is, why Finnish companies do not get large contracts abroad. There are structural problems. In the past, when Finpro has worked better than now, we have had a better situation than we have now. I do not understand at all why our constructive proposal is being pulled down in this way when this is our common concern. In addition, exports:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u524	Mr President! It is great that the Social Democrats now also have special contributions to entrepreneurship — this is our common goal — and to employment, including self-employment, not just for others, and I would also like to hear those concrete measures on how employment would be more profitable. It is precisely because, at the moment, it is too risky to hire an entrepreneur. Then I'd encourage that too... I would have liked to have heard, when there is concern, and on the subject, that these so-called mandatory laws would then apply to women-dominated sectors in particular — it is quite true — that you did everything you could to ensure that this social pact was created so that the male-dominated sectors would be involved above all, and all the sectors concerned, in bringing Finland out of this serious situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u525	Responses to representatives Heinonen, Savola, Adlercreutz and Harakka. Here we go. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u526	Mr President! Of course, the best thing for our employment would be for the SDP to give employee organisations peace now to agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u527	Mr President! Of course, it makes it clear that the wisdom has been found now — last season was the portfolio of the Minister of Finance, the portfolio of the Minister of Labour. That is where we are now, which is the legacy of this, and now we have to make some corrective moves. Many attempts have now been made to reach a social agreement. We all hope that it will be born. But it is a miracle and strange that even in the Ay movement — even though there is such a slump and the ACP now has its own chapter in itself — there is more capacity for renewal than there is at present in the SDP. There's a total no-line here for everything the government's been proposing. We have to adjust, we have to make cuts, we have to turn Finland's economic state into a different position than it is at present. I would also appeal to the SDP: you have good contacts with the employees of the social partners — make sure that we get ahead of the development of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u528	Värderade Talman! The representative spoke of a low level of education for immigrants. This misunderstanding needs to be corrected immediately: unless the general level of education in Finland is significantly higher than the Swedish level of education and if the distribution of immigrants is not significantly different from that of Swedish immigrants, I can refer to a Swedish study according to which the level of education of immigrants in almost all age groups is higher than that of Swedish immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u530	Yes, the government has responsibility for the success of the income agreements, as the previous governments have had, and they have certainly had a much better percentage of success. And now I would be happy to tell Mr Jarva about the option of the SDP for sole proprietors: there are 170,000 sole proprietors in Finland, and then it would be absolutely fantastic if they hired another,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u531	Mr President! Such a thing that here the SDP talks about employment packages and entrepreneurship packages: Well, it's a normal attempt from when you create the conditions. After all, this kind of left-wing policy has done it, that all the margin has been eaten away, socialized away from there. This is not what the capital will invest in, they will not invest in socialism, certainly not. They only go where the cake goes to grow. They're putting money in there, not sharing that cake and saying, "Come here, buddy, Eero Lehti, and put the money in there, and we'll split it up." Eero Lehti says we put a bag of money in the back pocket, he puts it somewhere else. So we need to get rid of this socialist thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u532	I will give the floor at this debate to the representatives of Mr Marin, Mr Mäkelä and Mr Pakkanen, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u533	Mr President! I understand that the representative This situation, which the government has driven this country to in a very short period of time, terrifies the hay. We have been a contractual society for a long time, and now so quickly you have wrecked this long tradition. We all know that the main obstacle to the labour market agreement is the compulsory laws advocated by the government and the fact that the government has gone between the employer and the employee, as it were, in such a way that it defends only the employer side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u534	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u536	Mr President! This lack of confidence and discord in the labour market is largely due to the fact that the Ay movement still calculates that it is able to influence the demographics and does not understand the facts of this situation where this country is. I would like to comment on what was at first, the tax revenue or the public sector: we must first have tax revenue before we can have the public sector. We cannot pay the public sector without tax revenue, and at the moment the public sector is too large for the carrying capacity of the export industry, and that is the problem we are wrestling with. In addition to the question of whether the SDP is interested in men's employment, it now appears that it is questionable whether they are interested in women's entrepreneurship. There are many women in Finland as small entrepreneurs. They should be supported, they should be able to employ people, and they should not, for example, start to torpedo any of the repeals of business laws that the left-wing opposition has done. Commenting to Mr Adlercreutz on immigrants: Finnish immigrant material appears to be worse than in Sweden, because immigrants from Iraq and Somalia are not employed by long-term integration measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u537	Mr President! In this regard, representatives of the opposition have said that there is a compulsory law here. There is still no law in force, which means that there is still an opportunity in Finland to agree between the social partners, and, as I said in my own speech, I am concerned that neither side of the table understands at the moment that an agreement needs to be reached. I fully agree with Mr Hakkarainen that a small Finnish entrepreneur does not necessarily need any large subsidies to employ, it needs good, professional staff and the product it sells — and then it can also be a service that is sold — but these companies cannot stand up with any support money. And then I would ask the opposition: what is your support for this entrepreneur? How much of that so-called free money is given to entrepreneurs that they employ? They are not the kind of real jobs that support employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u538	In this debate, the last speeches are absolutely in the order of the representatives of Savola, Harakka and Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u539	Mr. Speaker! First of all, to Mr Marin: when you accuse the government of being confused with the labour market — we must have an alternative. If the social partners are unable to agree, should we wait straight and watch this country go deeper and deeper? Should we wait straight for this country to go deeper? Is that what the SDP wants? We will have to take action if the social partners, the corporations, are not able to agree with each other. We do not look at the drums straight as the previous government clearly did. Government debt: I humbly apologise if we are not just above the EUR 100 billion I said. I have noticed that it is very dangerous to say numbers here, let alone from that ministerial box, and from here too. Maybe our debt is someone between EUR 96 billion and EUR 98 billion, about EUR 100 billion. But saying numbers in this room is risky. I humbly apologize for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u540	Mr President! It is true that women's entrepreneurship is also at the heart of the SDP. The majority of these self-employed, whom I have just mentioned, are women. On the other hand, there are no measures in your budget to help sole entrepreneurship — which is, however, a growing form of work in Finland —. I do agree that it is true that the government is responsible for ensuring that the negotiations on the income agreement are conducted in a good spirit and that it is responsible if it is unable to help them. The success of previous governments has been better. An example of this is the pension agreement that was reached during the previous government and which is unique internationally. In it, as we citizens do, we compromise our own short-term interests for the national economy. We employees have the capacity to do this, and we believe in agreement and trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u541	And now it would be my tenderness to force me to give the floor to Mr Jarva, and then Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u542	Mr President! Now that we are talking about these entrepreneurs and the female entrepreneurs whom I represent, you have probably heard that the government is presenting this 2500 euros to entrepreneurs, especially women entrepreneurs, to make it easier for them: when their female employees usually get these babies and have to leave work, they get this one-time allowance,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u543	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u544	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u545	Mr President! Representative Savola asked what the government should do, whether to stand up straight. And then he asked how the government has now blocked this labour market agreement. This was the case when the EK, the employer, walked out of the negotiations, even though the outcome of the negotiations was heading in that direction,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u546	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u547	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u548	One last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u549	Mr President! It is a fact that during the time of Minister of Labour Lauri Ihalainen, unemployment in this country worsened, and now this new government is forced to act and shoulder responsibility. And that is why Prime Minister Juha Sipilä even before he became Prime Minister went to the first round of the social contract. Since then, he has held negotiations several times. For the last time, these negotiations fell by the fact that the ACP was no longer prepared to continue the negotiations and has not, in fact, given unambiguous confirmation that, if this labour package were withdrawn, they would still be prepared to continue these negotiations. On the other hand, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has announced that the government will continue to keep the door open to labour market organisations if they bring in a package that meets these goals, which we now have to do. And, in fact, now that freedom of contract is being strengthened through local agreement, it will, above all, help these small companies, which have been raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u550	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u551	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There has been a number of talk of so-called mandatory laws this evening. I'm not going to rabull any more of them now, but I'm going to tell you a short story about them. Last week I talked to the CEO of a large Finnish listed company. His company is a major player in the export market. How does he feel about the current situation? He said he wanted to return to a contractual society, to a predictable, stable society. At the moment, his company is concerned about his logistics. He fears that security of supply is under threat and is therefore feverishly looking for alternative solutions. For this company, it means foreign transport companies, because Finns are too risky for them in the current labour market situation. It probably means Russian equipment and Russian ports. This is an extremely worrying development and is the result of the current labour market situation in which both the government and the social partners have failed. The CEO of this company wanted a social contract, and so do I. I do not even want to think about what going through the so-called competitiveness package would mean. Then the second question is what's really important. In the local government sector, the situation is different, but if 20% of the price of an export company’s product is made up of wages, is the price drop of a couple percent worth this fight and risk? I don't think so. Companies need predictability, we need a coherent policy and clear rules on taxation, we need to stop squabbling and we need to look to the future, and we need to have a trained, qualified workforce. But we also need local settlements. In that capacity, good luck to the ministers present and absent. I support Mr Strand's motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u552	Mr President! Here the previous speaker said about the social pact, but I will tell you what it is about that socialism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u553	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u554	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u555	Mr President! 2015 has been the record year, the warmest year in the measurement history, and has been the most carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The world is almost a degree warmer than it was in pre-industrial times. Weather phenomena associated with high temperatures — droughts, floods, landslides and hurricanes — have increased on the planet. They must be adapted and prepared in advance. The climate agreement agreed in Paris gives hope. The agreement has been concluded for the period after 2020 and 195 countries are involved. World countries are trying to limit global warming below the critical threshold of 2°C. If possible, the temperature increase is limited to 1.5 degrees. Countries commit themselves to voluntary emission reductions and undertake to provide their emissions data transparently. Emission promises are discussed every five years. The countries are trying to reverse their emissions as quickly as possible. The commitments already made will be examined for the first time in 2018. In the Paris Decision, the USD 100 billion annual climate finance for developed countries is considered as a baseline and a new amount of money will be considered no later than 2025. Industrialized countries will also assist developing countries in their transition to green technologies and help them adapt to climate change. After Paris, the real work begins to define the details of the agreement. We have a lot of catching up to do in Finland, too. The current emission reduction target of 40% by 2030 is not enough to cover even the 2°C target. More than half of the emissions must be cut out by 2030. There is also a need for a binding interim target for 2025 emission reductions in the EU. Rapid reduction of emissions will safeguard the climate and nature from uncontrolled changes. Climate change will have a significant impact on the whole of humanity and on all ecosystems if it is not urgently combated. Now that the world has awakened to the reality of climate change, there is a huge demand for clean, energy-efficient technologies and renewable energy innovations. Unfortunately, government cuts in research, universities and Tekes are striking this goal. Basic research is also very important. Many new innovations stem from natural phenomena that have survived through basic research. We do not always even know how many years away the applications and benefits to be measured are. That is why scientists should be given more peace of work and not strangled with cuts in creativity. The objective of 1.5 would require ambitious measures and obligations to be supported. The first is to reform the climate and energy strategy to become more ambitious, to cut environmentally harmful subsidies and to promote clean technologies and renewable energy. Mr President! We have to act now. There is so much at stake: it is good for children and their children to be on the planet, there is enough food for all, there is arable land, the loss of biodiversity is halted, the world will not face huge climate refugees, small island states will not drown in water, the seas will not be acidified, fish and corals will survive, polar bears will be spared extinction, Finnish children could build snowmen. We are the first generation to face the impact of climate change and also the last to do something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u556	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a colorful debate here about the situation in which our country is in fact today, and the main focus of this debate has now been on employment issues. As mentioned earlier, employment has been getting worse for many years and, at the same time, the economy has also stagnated or been on a downward trend. For example, the latest data from the United States show that interest rates are rising and there are similar signals from Europe that the economy is beginning to recover. If we are left alone in Finland in this cycle of zero growth, the results can be very fatal at a time when the European Central Bank is blackmailing the economy. They will not be alone there waiting for Finland if we have not put our own economy in order. As I said in that debate, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has determined to make it one of the most important tasks of achieving this social pact. It is a competitiveness package that meets the 5+5+5 model, and this first 5% is being pursued through these sections of the social pact package. In this Chamber, accusations have been made against the government, and I understand that Prime Minister Sipilä too. Yes, they are completely false accusations. At present, Sipilä has announced that the door is still open to the social pact. If the social partners bring their own package, the government is prepared to accept it. At the same time, we get to read the news. I believe, for example, that Mr Alatalo is annoyed by the flagging out of Finland of Nanso's tight factory. It couldn't find any elasticity in the fabric style. There should have been flexibility to change the tasks. Not found, and hence Nanson's almost 100-year flexible trico operations are transferred from Finland. It would have been possible to resolve this by means of local agreement, i.e. a small degree of flexibility at a time when the company is in a difficult situation, with a small degree of flexibility in the other direction and again in the other direction. In fact, the government has taken local reconciliation as an important task. Now this system of local reconciliation is being prepared, and next year local reconciliation, if well implemented, will create new jobs here and now more than any other way, and it will not require any budgetary effort at all. So let companies hire and people do. Local agreement will lead to a lasting increase in employment. No wage subsidy that has been presented here today or any other publicly funded arrangement can ever get anywhere near the same effect. That is why it is important to move forward on this issue too. Mr President! We have to live in time, and so does this government with employment money. So, that is the previous government, and that is why the money is now running out and has been increased even during this government. Now I come to the end of what I personally hope every Finn of us will think at a time like this. Christmas is getting closer. I'm sure we'll be buying food. I hope everyone will consider carefully what food to buy. Swan flag food employs: EUR 15 adds 15,000 new jobs to Finnish food. Finnish gifts: everyone can now think about buying small or bigger gifts, whether this is a Finnish brand or a Finnish brand, whether the product is made in Finland, and make choices through it. Mr President! I personally hope that through these flexibilitys in the future Nanso, Arabia and many other traditional fine Finnish brands will be able to make products again in Finland at competitive prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u557	Mr President! The representative Hoskonen recently brought out hydropower and the pool of the leak. Rightly, hydropower must not be forgotten, so this must be developed as part of Finland's electricity production. This is clean, renewable and domestic. In addition to the leak, the Kollaja pool project, which is one of the alternatives to hydropower production, will be raised. This pool project would be very important for employment in the region as a whole and for Lake Pudas in particular because of flood protection. This should take into account all the construction, efficiency and benefits of the structures that are still untapped there. The increased construction of high wind power also creates a greater need for controlling power. At the same time, we can reduce the carbon force used as the control force, which would be in line with the spirit of Paris. In this economic situation, it should be examined whether this project could be implemented on a timely basis so that the local workforce and local businesses, contractors and services could be used as much as possible in the construction process. If well implemented, this project would also provide a major boost to the whole of the regional economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u558	Mr President! Finland’s competitiveness has not deteriorated because Finns have too many holidays. Finland’s competitiveness has deteriorated because products and services do not sell in the world with high added value. In recent years the value of Finnish exports has been clearly lower than the value of imports. There's a dozen things going through here, and there's a lot of high-profile stuff coming in here. It does not match the image of a high-skilled and high-tech country. The problem is that innovation does not turn into investment. Now I want to ask myself openly why companies do not grow and invest. One of the reasons is, of course, Europe's long and persistent recession, which has also caused a worse recession in Finland than in the early 1990s. This is a good thing to remember when it comes to declining employment in previous governments. The period of non-existent growth in Europe continues for seven years. If demand is stagnant, supply will be paralysed. The second reason is a little more complex. I wouldn't dare talk about it if I hadn't been an entrepreneur myself for 30 years, so I don't need to hear any rhetoric in every turn to praise entrepreneurship. Nor am I offended, but I understand my own responsibility if business is not successful. The industries have been revolutionised and Finnish companies have not been able to renew themselves. Business skills are weak and there are shortcomings in management. The best companies do well despite the economic climate, but too few succeed, dare and grow. Of course, no government can directly intervene in this, but we must be aware of the problem. Innovations do not become investments. Well, at least the solution is not to destroy innovation. Our only hope is that Finnish companies will find profitable business in successful industries where intellectual property protection creates competitive advantage and high pricing power. Industries and practices combine one term: Finland succeeds in a knowledge-based economy. The last time we went through educational cuts today, we are reducing the competitiveness of our skills from toddlers to higher education institutions. It is incredible that in this situation, EUR 75 million will be cut from universities and that 1200 people will be involved in the negotiations at the University of Helsinki and, in particular, at Aalto University, which was a pioneer in combining business sciences, technical sciences, art and design, 300 people will be threatened with dismissal. At the same time, Tekes' powers will be cut by EUR 140 million, about one third. There is also VTT, the State Technical Research Centre. Society's contribution to business research and product development is already the third lowest of less than 3% in the OECD countries. The Social Democrats' alternative budget and entrepreneurship package ensure the future of Finnish research and product development. The last thing we heard in the Chamber today is that the government is going to update the innovation strategy. In other words, six months have passed since it was necessary for an update to be made, while the economy is in difficulty. As opposition leader Juha Sipilä is marketing a billion-dollar growth fund for many years as a solution to the problems of the Finnish economy. Where's the growth fund now? It's not in the yellow book. Perhaps in 2017 some solutions will be offered for corporate financing. Of course, it is sad in itself, but I draw attention to another phenomenon, and that is the fact that the government wants to make all the decisions from the beginning and all by itself, as if nothing had ever been done before. It creates its own top-notch projects, its own programmes and projects, even though we already have, or already had, an innovation system that created envy in the world. Thus, Minister Grahn-Laasonen has inspired a new project called Challenge Finland. I'm sure there's nothing more to it than a name. It is intended to bring universities and businesses together. Unfortunately, at the same time, a major project of strategic excellence, the SHOKis, has been driven down at the same time, combining research and business in many of the key areas of technology. The government abolished this long-term and multidisciplinary cooperation because it wants to do everything for itself, start over and waste such critical years right now. The problem of competitiveness is the problem of the knowledge economy. We must feed the bravery. We've got to do better than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u559	Mr President! First of all, as a comment to Mr Haraka on this general deliberate misunderstanding regarding this holiday issue. In other words, holiday days, which are higher than the private sector in the public sector, are part of the cost of the public sector, which needs to be reduced on the other side, while at the same time improving the competitiveness of the private sector and exports by means of savings, for example. In the past, an example of pension reform was taken as a good example, although it is actually one of the best examples of a bad example of how the SDP has been vacillating in this country and has pursued a policy of braking that is no longer allowed to continue in this period. The retirement age should have been raised a long time ago, but while the SDP was in the government, the project was made available to the tripartite community, delayed in years and partly watered down in terms of content, so that the older age groups had access to good pensions, while the younger ones paid in the form of a life expectancy coefficient for the whole project. This is the compulsory legislation that is decided outside parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u560	Mr. Speaker! Of course, it is rather sad that you now think that this historic, internationally important pension agreement was wrong. Can it be agreed that when the government itself has a corresponding saving measure of importance for the long-term competitiveness of the Finnish economy, then you can criticise the actions of the previous government? I would also point out that the public holiday reduction plan is only 0.1 % of these famous 5+5 %. It is completely null and void in financial terms — I do not know if the representative is Mäkelä has no pity — for public sector women.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u561	Mr President! The debate has been so interesting that I had to come here and say a few more things. This particular time and moment of stagnation, which is currently in Finland, where all time is spent in this ball playing on both sides of the table, this stagnation should now be stopped and everyone should recognize these facts in the middle and in front of our nation. Here are a few things in which we have the honour of being the first in this European Community as a nation. Firstly, we are Europe's fastest ageing people. Finland’s birth rate is one of the lowest in Europe. Finland is the fastest indebted people in Europe. The growth of unemployment in Finland is the fastest in Europe. Finland is the least attractive country for investors throughout the euro area. These are such fierce facts that it is absolutely necessary for them to admit that our labour market system on both sides of the table is no longer working. This is because I have been an alternate member of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and have been busy sitting there at meetings, there has been an opportunity to meet both sides of the table with these lobbyists, both from the EK and from the employee side. I've discovered that everyone goes to the same tailor. They're once-in-a-lifetime college buddies. They're completely separated from where they actually go at the workplace. They have high wages, 15,000 euros a month. They're losing what they're doing in this country. We have a young generation of workers who would like to work, dismantle its obstacles and so on. Mr President! There was also such news yesterday that there were over 100 illegal strikes in Finland last year, Sweden 6. You know, we could think about this a little bit. This system doesn't work anymore. It works in this time. Currently, almost all jobs are created by small micro-enterprises. I've been an entrepreneur myself. I've had five attempts. Two of them went down during the recession, one of them was stopped voluntarily, one continues as a standard company, and one of these companies is the leading company in Finland. I understand something about trying, and at the same time I see that there is nothing more difficult in this country than starting a business, ending a business and making it run between. You have so many different entrepreneurship obligations before you have any machines sold. This country is an entrepreneur's nightmare. And even if I sit in the opposition, I'm just saying that now that the government is trying to do something, I'd be happy to give it a chance to try. Then in two or three years, let's see what's going on. But this situation that we now have is certainly not conducive to anything. I am hating all those entrepreneurs who, in this situation, still believe in entrepreneurship and hire more people, even though the future looks what it looks like. And yet again, Mr President, I would like to give some credit to our young generation, where entrepreneurship is valued. It's been great listening to these new multimillionaire entrepreneurs, guys under 30. When asked how they were spending money, they smiled: oh, like money, yes, I forgot I had money, well, last week I invested a million in a guy's business when I thought it was a good idea. They pay their taxes here. They do not wonder where they could put the money so that Finland would never benefit from it. I think we need to create conditions for this generation. I think we're done here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u562	Mr President! This is what the Sipilä Government is aiming at. The Government’s objective is to increase competitiveness through the strengthening of exports and to improve the operating conditions of companies on the domestic market. It is precisely the dismantling of different standards that will facilitate both employment and the everyday life of the entrepreneur. The tax policy outlined in the Government Programme also supports entrepreneurship and employment. The corporate tax rate is kept at a competitive level and payment-based VAT accounting for small enterprises is possible. In particular, I welcome the reduction in inheritance tax, which makes it easier for family businesses to continue. The transition of a company from one generation to the next will enable it to develop steadily and gradually gather building materials for growth. The reduction in inheritance tax will enable the entrepreneur side to develop activities, invest and hire more workers and, above all, to maintain former jobs. These investments were also mentioned in the past. I do not know if the situation has changed since then in a more dramatic direction. I myself have the knowledge that the second least investment in Finland is in Europe, after Greece. That is a lot to say at the moment about our popularity with regard to investors. 70% of industrial companies have considered moving their production abroad. This is really alarming. Improving the capacity of entrepreneurs to act then for employment in municipalities. It is very good that the government has been considering among itself that these employment services should be transferred from these inefficient employment offices to municipalities, because the services of the employment administration are, to a very large extent, local services for job seekers and employers, and at present this service is not available quickly enough, in practice at all. This is an important task for these new municipalities that are born in this regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u563	Mr President! There's one more point I didn't say. When my own company went bankrupt, it was a huge shame, even though I had no reason to do so myself, they were the circumstances during the recession of the 1990s when all the customers just disappeared. But the situation was that the neighbors stopped talking to me, and I was like some major criminal when the company had gone down. I had to think a lot about what this whole idea of bankruptcy is in the law. Finally, I freed myself by saying that bankruptcy is not a crime, it is a legal opportunity to end unprofitable activities. Of these young, new serial entrepreneurs, as they call themselves, a 27-year-old guy told me that he has 18 attempts, that five are about to quit, but then he has some new ones coming up. I believe that this attitude should now be encouraged.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u564	Mr President! Here in Finland we are not able to compete with low-cost countries for the same production, but we have succeeded in technology and we have succeeded in making good, high-quality products. We've had high-level research. For example, during the last recession, the then government did well to invest in research and education, even though everything else had to be cut. When research and higher education have already been cut in recent years, unfortunately the level of science and the level of publications in Finland has already fallen. If we compare Finnish universities with top universities such as Zurich ETH, there is a significant difference between the size of research teams, the number of employees, how many reagents and equipment can be acquired. We are in a completely different series of resources and starting points. Madam President! Impact of budget cuts There's a lot of money in Tekes's grants. Eighty-five per cent of the funding is in the focus areas of key projects. The reduction in research funding has a serious impact on resources to promote research and development in key projects in Finland. The reduction in funding affects the Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions project annually. It will be reduced by EUR 25 million. Promoting digitalisation: The budget for Tekes will be reduced by EUR 45 million. Well-being and health: there will be a reduction of as much as EUR 11 million. All of this is reflected in Tekes's "Aspects of Key Projects", which I call on the members of the Government Party and Ministers to familiarise themselves with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u565	Madam President! I am happy to agree with Mr Laukkanen's wise conclusions about the rising Finnish generation of entrepreneurs who are not only daring but also patriotic. Incidentally, the SDP's alternative budget mentions a company called Supercell and states that the founders of Supercell are happy to pay back some of their success, which is also thanks to the support of society. This is good to remember, because this refers to Tekes, which has played an important role in enabling this company as well and in creating a gaming industry of EUR 2 billion in Finland. These investments by Tekes are the best investments and it is therefore completely incomprehensible that Tekes' powers will be cut by EUR 140 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u566	Madam President! Just like that, as Mr Harakka said, almost the only government activity that the EK, for example, has criticised is the money earmarked for these trainings and subsidies. They wonder how Finland can afford this because it is expensive for us. I was in this kind of encounter with young entrepreneurs, and I must say that I rarely have driven as much in flames as I did from that meeting. There were enthusiastic people there, and then when they were asked about these obstacles, which is the biggest obstacle for them in Finland at the moment, these seven guys who were involved in that panel began to laugh together and everyone said: their biggest obstacle is the Finnish State. All right, here we are. What the hell is wrong with us when we don't see these things? Is it really the case that we have to put an age limit on the parliamentary elections, that only people under the age of 30 can stand for election when it seems that these structures are so rigid, the whole world of thought in which we live is in such a past world that it is almost frightening?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u567	Mr President! Good conversation. It is precisely this game industry that has been an important player. I myself have worked at Kajaani University of Applied Sciences in higher education in the field of games as a entrepreneurship coach, there also as a coordinator in a business incubator. It is quite true — the Harakka and Laukkanen referred to these young entrepreneurs — that it is particularly important to create opportunities for such young entrepreneurs in communities where they support each other, and for entrepreneurs to become more visible on the younger generation because you do not have to know everything yourself, but work together to do things. It is quite true that this bureaucracy is also seen as an obstacle in the younger generation. There are both cost factors and then obstacles to practical action, the absurdities we are now pursuing in this crackdown on standards. Above all: of course, there will be cuts in education and then in the financing of these investment sectors, as is now the case for every single sector on the state side, but the most important thing would be to make this possible and to work together, and that much more should be done in the future with the labour market, especially on the professional side.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u568	Mr President! Here we went to such a subject that we still have to comment, even though foreign policy is getting a little hot. I have seen the game sector as one of the themes of the elections, as early as 2011 in the Parliamentary elections, and I still believe that it is a very timely example of this new creative sector that needs some state support. On the other hand, there is this aspect that these young entrepreneurs, i.e. young entrepreneurs in profit, like most entrepreneurs in just about any Western country, see that the state is more in the way than helping. However, I can see that the role of the state is also important. I see that Mr Harakka has quite a legitimate concern here, but, on the other hand, if you have to look for positive things, you will not completely eliminate the need for labour, but the government programme clearly stated that in such areas as the gaming sector, for example, it will also facilitate the recruitment of these specialist experts from abroad, because the fact is that, although these companies are patriotic, they would like to hire people from Finland, so there is simply not enough world experts here, so you will have to hire them from elsewhere, and the government will make this easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-16-ps-83.u569	For table setting, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 17 December 2015.
