ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Sari Essayah requests exemption from the alternate member of the Commission of the Office. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box which is not yet there. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. The maximum length of questions and answers is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u3	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u4	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, you have asked the social partners for proposals to improve productivity and competitiveness. You have hoped that the social partners would make a better proposal than your own coercive proposal, which is unfair to police officers, firefighters, nurses, bankers, hundreds of thousands of other working citizens. Today, SAK has put forward the proposal for a labour market solution that you asked for. This solution is better and fairer than your own proposal. This better proposal will not cut thousands of euros off the earnings of Finnish workers, and this proposal will increase productivity and improve competitiveness by 4% immediately. This proposal would guarantee a continued peace of work and wage moderation. Now I ask you, Prime Minister, are you withdrawing these mandatory laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u5	Mr President! As I said a moment ago, I welcome this opening to the negotiations, this proposal which is now on the table, and I have now made the social partners sit on the negotiating table. We have a communication here next Wednesday on this government package and practically until 4 p.m. Monday to find a better solution to this. I am happy to accept a better solution, as I have many times hoped. I hope that on the basis of this opening, which SAK has now done, we will be able to find one by Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u7	Mr President! Traditionally, such performances would come together from employers and employees. At the moment, the employer does not seem to be interested in negotiating. Mr Prime Minister, do you know why that is? I'm actually telling you. The employer does not need to negotiate, as the government has taken over the role of the representative of the Confederation of Finnish Industries in this as a whole. You have given employers everything they have hoped for. Prime Minister Lasse Lavenen, former EK Labour Market Director, said yesterday in the Aamulehti: I have never had to question the handshake of an employee as a negotiator. You promised to accept the proposal from the employee side and have been prepared to give up the coercive package. Mr. Prime Minister, can your handshake be trusted now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u8	Mr President! Of course, I am now waiting for negotiations to begin and continue. I know that the labour market organisations are gathering and negotiating on this basis, which is a good thing. I expect a joint proposal from there by 4 p.m. on Monday. Why we are now in this situation is not the fault of employee organisations or the fault of business organisations, but together Finland has been agreed on this kind of situation, where we are at the moment. We need to find a competitive leap and find solutions to this competitiveness gap, which is around 15% for our main competitors, without blaming anyone here. If that solution does not arise through negotiation, then the government must proceed by its own means. To these mandatory laws, I suppose all laws are mandatory. You can't drive a red light. You can't drive a red light.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u9	Mr President! It sounded good that the Prime Minister was now expecting constructive negotiations from the social partners. I personally see this scale, which the SAK has now proposed, that 4.2% and an immediate increase in competitiveness and not an uncertain leap in the kind of government proposal that will have to go through the Constitutional Committee, and if there is no agreement, there will be a huge risk of an extremely serious round of collective agreements in a year's time. If SAK is proposing an extreme solution for two years, a zero treaty for the first year and a very close one in practice for the second year, then it can be said that these categories of magnitude are close to one another. Now all we have to do is have the government's influence that business is being pulled out of the same hole where the government has now taken the EK. Now we have to, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u10	Mr President! I agree. There will be no negotiations unless all parties are genuinely seeking that solution. Now we need to find a 5% competitiveness jump to this competitiveness, then we need a moderate wage settlement, and we need many other measures that will improve productivity at that level of business. It is mainly a task for companies and communities then it is the last 5%. This SAK proposal contains many outstanding questions, such as the lack of this 1.72% reduction in social security contributions, its funding. This government proposal has funding for it, it costs about 800 million, and we have to find the money for it somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u11	Mr President! Indeed, new proposals have been received today. A proposal came from the SAK, and STTK and Akava have also announced that they also have their own proposals, and the debate has essentially moved forward. However, one proposal is completely missing, and it is a proposal from employers. So far, the business proposal has not come. Many people now suspect that it is because they believe that this government proposal is the best one for them, that is to say, it directly undermines the conditions of employment. And when you say, Prime Minister, that compulsory laws are all laws, you are, for the first time in Finnish history, interfering with working conditions by means of compulsory legislation, which prevents you from agreeing on working conditions better than what would be decided here in a very questionable way that violates the Constitution. The highly recognised negotiator of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, and also the lawyer, Mr Qualitynen, himself doubted that this was unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u12	Mr President! The Board of Directors will decide on its own communication next Monday at 6 p.m. and inform you immediately afterwards. Until then, the situation is open. As I have said many times, we are prepared to amend our proposal now on the table. But I find it repulsive to think in such a way that there is someone here who benefits and someone who is away from. We are now looking for a solution to improve the employment situation in Finland. We are looking for 110,000 new jobs, and that is where we are going to put the structures of Finland's competitiveness in order. This is one small measure in it as a whole, what we need is for the employment rate to develop positively in Finland. We should not fall into this confrontation, but we should assume that we are jointly seeking a solution that is in the interests of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u13	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä puts forward arguments that the confrontation must not be carried out and nobody should be forced into it, but I am not surprised that Mr Hakaniemi did not agree to put a head on the guillotine of the social pact which you put on it. Now I ask, as Mr Heinäluoma did before: could the government put at least a small desire to whisper in the EK's ear in the South Bank, that you also present your own options, how do we proceed from here on out? Or is it the case that, in the absence of the government’s dissolution of the January engagement, the law of contract only looks at this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u14	Mr President! I have had a discussion today with Lauri Lyly and she expressed the wish that I could be in contact with the employer and try to get the parties to the negotiating table. I have followed that request and they are currently sitting at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u15	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you are constantly repeating that the solution must be ready on Monday together, in fact, one of the biggest labour market solutions in the history of Finland. This deadline that you set is not based on anything other than your own decision. If you think about these compelling laws that you want to take away from low-paid nurses, firefighters, police officers on Sundays, and you want people to be unable to afford to suffer, it will certainly take at least a year to process these laws. You have to make legislative proposals, you have to bring them to Parliament, they have to be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee. What's the rush? The government always has the right and the opportunity to withdraw its own bad bill from Parliament. Is it not in such a serious situation that the government should:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u16	Mr President! Congressman Arhinmäki, you're right. That is exactly what we want to do. Since May we have tried in practice to find a solution to this issue by negotiating and negotiating, by making compromise proposals. Now the government is making its own proposal, and it's going to take it forward. Just as you said, it will last until next summer that these laws are ready. If I don't get a proposal on Monday and there's some super idea along the way that's better than the government's idea and it's agreed together, then we're always ready to reconsider along the way. We're always ready to reconsider. But there is a communication on Wednesday, and that is where the train is now moving forward with this government package. It has been decided and agreed with Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u17	Madam President! Mr Arhinmäki asked why he was in such a hurry. Busy because our gross domestic product is still below what it was in 2008. Busy because our growth is slow. Busy because our unemployment situation continues to deteriorate. Busy because we have a weak competitive situation. Busy because we are currently a sick man in Europe. At the end of the game this equation is simple: If we do not have competitiveness, there is no export. If there is no export, there is no growth. If there is no growth, there are no jobs. If you don't have jobs, you don't have tax money. If you don't have tax money, you don't have well-being. We're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u18	Madam President! When you listen to and follow this debate, you get the impression that it has still not been understood that our poor competitiveness is due to the fact that companies are failing in the export market. I would then ask the Prime Minister whether, according to this logic, when the business sector is also being called upon to bring some value to the table for these benefits, which is now being promised if we improve competitiveness, does not the same logic then also work that Finland is prepared to help the refugees, but at the same time we would demand something from them that we help them. So is it not precisely the government's aim to seek greater competitiveness for companies, and in that situation we cannot expect companies to put something on their own table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u19	Mr President! We do assume that companies will become more competitive, that companies will start to employ, to invest in Finland. As this atmosphere and confidence in the survival of Finnish society improves, investments will start. Indeed, we have an objective of 110,000 new jobs during this reign and they will not be created on their own. Action must be taken to achieve competitiveness. This is one of the actions to be taken there. But here, employers are required in exactly the same way. If this term is to be used now, then "mandatory legislation" will provide security for the worker's change. In the event of notice, the change security of the month, education. We are also in the process of enacting a law in which occupational health care in the same situation would continue for six months. And in the same context, we are also improving the balancing of the costs of parental leave, which are perceived as a problem for women-dominated sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u20	Mr President! The Prime Minister has done this leadership in a very responsible way, and it is a pity that this social pact fell twice. But the Prime Minister and the Government are still giving the labour market organisations the opportunity to find solutions to improve competitiveness. Today, Erkki Liikanen, SDP-based Director General of the Bank of Finland, stated that this SAK proposal is unfortunately not sufficient for this situation. It would therefore be important for a solution to be found in the next few days to bring about such a one-off solution to improve competitiveness and, of course, a moderate and long-term wage solution. It's everyone's interest. I would like to see all the powder placed on the SDP and on the Left Alliance's side so that such a common solution can be found. It is a great thing that the government has made decisions and policies to improve Finland’s competitiveness. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether you are still prepared to use this tax carrot of around one billion, then as part of this overall solution, if such an ultra-moderate wage solution is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u21	Mr President! Indeed, this package includes tax reductions of EUR 1 billion — it always wants to be left behind in this debate. Now that we can achieve this in a controlled and determined manner, the tax cuts of EUR 1 billion will significantly improve people's purchasing power and thus also contribute to economic growth. We also have the pressure to save more money. If we do not get ahead of this economic growth in order to improve competitiveness, we will have to make further savings. These too can be abandoned in the event of progress being made in these matters. In this context, I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen in particular for having had the opportunity to hold background discussions with you on this situation. They have been of great benefit when this background discussion has taken place along the way. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u23	Mr President! All legislation is mandatory. It is only so that, by law, we want to steer society in a certain direction, and so in this case too. The starting point for this purpose, the 5% competitiveness jump, is that the unemployed get a job. And I think we should now find a better path to this and the best path possible. Unfortunately, this SAK proposal does not yet provide sufficient answers to this 5%. But as I said, this is a good start, that there is a suggestion on the table, and this can be discussed. Labour market organisations are doing this at the moment. And I hope that this will now be refined over the weekend so that the 5% target will be met. There were elements here from the other one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u24	Mr President! The essence of the SAK proposal is that it has a moderate wage settlement for the years 17 and 18. It shows that the seriousness of the situation has also been understood there, and that is a good thing. At the same time, however, we must understand that wage moderation has been achieved up to now, but yet we have not been able to turn employment into growth. That is why it is important that it also includes what Mr STTK and Mr Akava have said, that there is a fairer and fairer way of doing this 5% competitive leap. I agree with what has been said here that the EK must also be involved in building such a comprehensive solution. So here are the elements when they can be combined. But I ask the Minister for Labour: is it not the case that we need to have a wage settlement and a wage settlement?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u25	Mr President! You took my legs out of my mouth. I fully agree, and this has been the case all along. It has not been a question of having one or two ways of solving this problem. It is the whole, and the whole is the Government Programme, and the Government Programme is followed. And it is good that these social partners have now brought forward these proposals for solutions. Now we have time for the weekend, and then we'll see on Monday and the government will draw conclusions. I'm glad we're having a conversation. I'm glad there's a choice. I hope that this will lead to progress in this society on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u26	Mr President! Indeed, there is a need for moderate statesmen's leadership and the ability to agree. In this regard, it is interesting that, when you, Prime Minister, gave an extraordinary speech on television last week, you presented a series of situational assessments which were quite powerful and decisive, and on the basis of them you said that you have these policy-making objectives which you cannot compromise on. However, Prime Minister, many experts consider these statements to be somewhat exaggerated. For example, it is not true that Finland is in danger of being guided by Brussels because the deficit procedure has already existed by the vast majority of European countries and is mainly about reporting obligations. In the 1990s, Finland was in difficulty in obtaining a loan at all, because our ability to pay was weak. Now we get a loan at a historically low interest rate. And our credit rating is good. The situation in Finland's economy is difficult, but it is not worth creating fear and despair for people with exaggerated ideas, but rather creating a positive one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u27	Mr President! Yes, I agree with the situation picture. Compared to our level of debt, many other European countries still have a reasonable level of debt: around 60% of GDP has this government debt. But our deficit and its development have been miserable. For the second year in a row, we are now in this category of over 3%. This year, therefore, close to 3.5% of GDP is a general government deficit, while the agreed ceiling for this is 3%. If this 3.5 is exceeded, then we will automatically be in this excessive deficit procedure, which means that next week's budget document will then be used in that approval by the Commission. There have, of course, been other countries in this process, [President MariaLohela : Now in time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u30	Mr President! The opening-up of the SAK is indeed positive, and the trend is good at the moment. I very much hope that this will be the first step towards a wider agreement on this issue. Even at difficult times and under great pressure, the government has been arbitrarily conciliating and working together so as not to rush to solutions that some parties feel are unilateral. The Government has sought a two-part solution in the form of a social contract and wage moderation. We currently have 110,000 long-term unemployed, which is, admittedly, a hurry for the repair movement. Prime Minister, how do you see these two objectives of ours if we continue to stick to both the social pact and the wage moderation? Are both necessary, and what will happen if we rely only on one?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u31	Mr President! Both are needed, both of which, if implemented, would improve the balance of public finances by half a per cent, and that means that we would then be able to carry out this EUR 1 billion tax reduction and then fail to take the conditional austerity measures. This is behind all of this. And on these negotiations on the social pact, to which you referred, there has been a debate on whether we can make it a common goal for Finland to improve cost competitiveness by 5%. We discussed this all the way from vapu to different stages until August 21st, and we did not reach an agreement on whether to take this sort of common goal or not. That's why
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u32	One last question on this subject, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u33	Madam President! You, Mr Prime Minister, have created a conflict in the labour market with this coercive initiative by taking a clear stand on the side of the Confederation of Industries, that is to say, the other side. You have guaranteed the Confederation of Finnish Industries a lottery win in this debate. You went for a productivity leap, that's when you asked for 100 more hours of working time. When it was refused, you said, "Catch up, and there will be no further negotiations." Then you ended up with a competitive leap, minus 5%: a reduction in wages, as can be clearly seen from these compulsory laws. If the EK now accepts the labour market solution, which will produce results on the basis of the SAK's proposal, is the government now prepared to accept what will become of the labour market table, without the government itself being forced to pass any further laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u34	Mr President! There's a lot of terms here. Our competitiveness gap in our competitor countries is 15%, and more perhaps. We need better cost competitiveness and better productivity. Cost competitiveness will be improved by, for example, continuing working hours or by these other measures, which have been in the debate here. Productivity will then be improved mainly by what businesses do: improving productivity in order to improve processes, develop product and process development. These are the actions that are being taken in the companies there. This is what I'm ready to discuss. I will accept the proposal on Monday, and the government will then decide on the follow-up at 6 p.m. on Monday. And in this Chamber on Wednesday we will then discuss whether it is the basis that the government is now proposing or whether there will be a new base, and that is what we will see on Monday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u35	Next question, Mr Haglund.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u36	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, Finland's EU line speaks both here in Finland and, in fact, in Europe. Finland abstained this week in the distribution of these asylum seekers between countries. Finland was placed in it with the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania, among others. The question is whether this is a wise course of action. You, Mr Prime Minister, later said in public at least that it is completely secondary to how Finland votes. I consider this to be a somewhat miraculous statement. Do you really think it is secondary to how Finland votes on the EU tables?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u37	Mr President! The long-term line in Finland has been that such burden sharing issues start on a voluntary basis and do not assume that the Commission will prescribe Member States, that you will take one and you will take one. This has been a long-term policy in Finland. It was also the decision of that European Council in April, and from there the April conclusions were directly included in the Government Programme the decision on how these internal transfers of asylum seekers are to be made. We have consistently followed this line. I did not have the slightest problem with the position of Finland at last night's meeting of Heads of State or Government. I also did the groundwork, called a half dozen colleagues, and they said that they fully understand this Finnish line and it is excellent that Finland is shouldering its own responsibility in this burden sharing. There was no problem with this vote at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u38	Mr President! My question, Prime Minister, was essentially whether it really is secondary to how Finland votes, because that statement was a bit amazing. Nor do I fully agree with the Prime Minister's assessment of how it was reasonable to act, but at least you gave good reasons for it. Speaking of how Finland works, our Foreign Minister has, for his part, spoken about the activities of our neighbouring country on this very issue of refugees and stated that Sweden is giving human smugglers and terrorist financing chains the opportunity to act and to promote their business. That is the direction that our Foreign Minister spoke in the day before yesterday. Would you, Mr Prime Minister, now clarify whether this is the whole government's idea of how our neighbouring country, Sweden, works, and do you think it is proper for our Foreign Minister to say such things about our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u39	Mr President! There was much discussion at that summit that our Schengen system is not working at the moment and that all countries are doing this wrong, contrary to these agreements. There are a lot of unregistered people on the move, and we'll be here to receive this movement in the back of the bag. This isn't working out the way it should be. That was admitted by all the chiefs. As far as this statement by the Foreign Minister concerning Sweden is concerned, perhaps the headlines here have been a little more radical than the statement itself and the content of the interview. I briefly discussed this with my Swedish colleague. He slapped me on the shoulder and said don't worry if there was a problem, I would have called.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u40	Mr President! However, you, Mr Prime Minister, have said that it may be that Finland may need this burden-sharing in the future precisely because we are at the back of the bag and there will be more people here than expected and European burden-sharing could benefit us. Of course, you could think of other crises that occur in our neighborhoods where this would happen. Was it wise in this case to abstain? When you referred to this Schengen system and the fact that it is not working at the moment, the European Union is on the way to a migration summit in Valletta and the draftsman of the Valletta meeting also visited Finland. Does the government now have any proposals, new proposals, new ideas on how to deal with this crisis in Europe in this situation when we meet here in November for the Valletta Summit?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u41	Mr President! This is true, that if we were to do burden sharing at the moment on the basis of this year's estimates, then Finland's burden would be shared, because our figure could be as high as 50,000, which, in proportion to the German figures, means something around 800,000. This was also discussed over there. Yes, we must now get our external borders in order and the Schengen principles in place and, therefore, in order. These measures were decided at that summit yesterday. They are fully in line with the Finnish policy. As far as this November meeting is concerned, quite a lot of these measures were already outlined here. Improve conditions in refugee camps, improve the practical functioning of these hot spots and participate in the food programme in such a way as to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u42	Madam President! I dare say that the asylum crisis is perhaps one of the moments in the history of the European Union, and I believe that there is nothing but a European solution to this. It will be managed at three levels: first jointly at EU level, then fast processing of asylum applications and then integration. None of us can escape responsibility on this issue. When an international media or colleague asks what you are going to do, whether you are investing in people or institutions, then we say that we are investing in people. Finland was the first country to immediately declare its responsibility for this quota proposed by the Commission, 2 %, 2,400 people. If the choice is whether or not we are involved in making a decision or taking those people, I would also be investing in people and in man’s distress on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u43	Madam President! The Minister of the Interior is not here now, but I would like to put a question to the Prime Minister: On the one hand, you make it clear that the Schengen Agreement must be put into effect and functioning, but on the other hand, Europe also has very critical voices about the fact that the Schengen Agreement is already history. But I am sure that there will also be a problem in the European Union with the various immigration policies and the criteria for seeking and granting asylum. But, Prime Minister, what is your point of view, how soon can the European Union get these different immigration policies together, so that this burden sharing can then be carried out in general and the problems are circumvented, what is involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u44	Mr President! These measures were discussed, these short-term measures, which are now mainly related to this burden-sharing, and then it was agreed that by the end of November these hot spots will be put in order and these border controls will be carried out at the level they should be. Then we can return Schengen to what it has done to date, as it is intended to do. I do not know exactly what the honourable Member referred to in these various immigration policies, but the rather uniform tone of the debate at yesterday's meeting was, at least, about these measures, and in particular about the measures that are being taken now in the crisis region and near the crisis, in refugee camps to get the conditions right there, to get food supplies in order, to have enough water in that area and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u45	Madam President! It is very good to hear that the Prime Minister appreciates good neighbourly relations, and perhaps it would have been appropriate for the Foreign Minister to have called his colleague first before he went out in public to express his own views. But, Prime Minister, there have been these international uncertainties in this line of government, but it has also been confusing to listen to a Finnish debate in which the plight of refugees has been very cold. In Central Finland, SPR volunteers have been photographed by our own Finns, sneaking in the dark after these volunteers, threats have been put forward and so away. This is an absolutely shameful and reprehensible act. Regrettably, there have also been some very special statements from the government parties about the gesture you made, Prime Minister, and your wife, when you handed your second home over to the refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u46	Mr President! I think that we must avoid confrontation in all respects here, including with our political players, and I also think that we should understand calmly the fears and concerns that people have there in their everyday lives about this great change that has taken place here. There are more than ten times as many asylum seekers, perhaps fifteen times as many asylum seekers as the normal situation, and people are concerned, in some respects, even fearing what this situation means. We should also be able to have a proper, peaceful debate without imposing burdens on these people who are raising their own concerns. I think we should hear them, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u47	Mr President! Of course, the most important thing is to address these causes and situations of crisis, especially in the Middle East, so that people do not have to leave their countries of origin. Those measures that have now been decided at EU level sound in the right direction, but we must continue to work hard to make progress. However, it is unlikely that results will be achieved very quickly, unfortunately, and surely the flow of asylum seekers to Finland will continue. The reception centers are full. I understand that one night accommodation costs about 40 euros to society on average. Could this home and family accommodation model be further developed, that such just ordinary families who want to take an asylum seeker to live with them, might even receive a small, even nominal, allowance for expenses, such as 10 euros per night, that are taken to live with them? This would quickly create seats, and on the other hand, I believe that this would also be the best way to integrate into Finnish society for them,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u48	Mr President! There's a lot of stages here. When a person comes across the border, it is important that we get him to the organization center and register, and any application for asylum will then start if requested. Then, at some point, in a controlled, centralised way, this may be part of the overall solution. In many countries, such as Lebanon, where I visited a month ago, there have been 1.5 million refugees among the 4 million people, and in practice this and this integration has been done precisely so that people have then taken these refugees into their homes and perhaps have employed them. We now have going to the board for this kind of better integration program that has been started. We are going to search for good practices in other countries and prepare for the next phase
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u49	Mr President! I am very pleased that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have made very humanist speeches here, and I understand that European friends will certainly have sympathy for you that the whole government may not necessarily represent the same point of view and then you will have to correct strange statements, even hostile statements, statements based on false information. However, I believe that these racist expressions should be taken up. Although it is certainly the case that a lot of people are drawn to interest and perhaps even fear, we still have quite worrying racist expressions, even Nazi signs, and in that sense I myself have to explain to my young son what people these are, who wave Nazi badges to foreigners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u50	Madam President! As the Prime Minister has just said, we are calling on the government to be patient with this debate, as it were, the middle of the golden path. There are only practical solutions to this difficult situation of asylum. At the same time, I recognise that this whole situation is challenging us to think about our own values, our relationship with other people, tolerance, our responsibilities and also our cooperation at European Union level. But we must also avoid the kind of confrontation in which a person is condemned immediately if he disagrees. We need to be tolerant in all directions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u51	Mr President! A lot of Iraqis have come to Finland. When asked why they have come to Finland, they say that they are more positive about them than in other countries. But now the fact is that there are also a lot of safe areas in Iraq. There is this southern Iraq, then there is the Kurdish region, which are so-called safe areas, and yet there are asylum seekers coming here too. It would now be extremely important for applicants from these safe areas to be cleared up so that they can be returned, because it also has a psychological significance: if they are returned, it will be discovered that they cannot come under false pretenses. It would be very important to get this moving precisely because these Iraqis are clearly the largest group of those who came here. I'm sure there are some of these that don't deserve asylum. As far as this EU meeting is concerned, the right notes have now been taken, but they came a little late, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u52	Mr President! This is what we discussed. Yes, the EU has been surprised at this, and we have been in this kind of reaction mode, i.e. little too late all the time. Now, for the first time in my opinion, this debate yesterday was a debate which looked to the future and wondered what the means and solutions of diplomacy were in that country of Syria, what we should do to improve the conditions of these refugee camps in the food programme, which is to be done together with Turkey and so on. In other words, I think that we were talking about the right things, which are proactive or proactive measures. As far as this Iraq is concerned, this is what we have discussed within the government. It is true that not all applicants come from warring areas, and action is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u53	Madam President! There is a lot of different and partly wrong information about asylum seekers' allowances in the media. A comparison made by the Finnish Broadcasting Company shows that the compensation paid in Finland would be up to tens of per cent higher than in Sweden, for example, in our neighbouring country. This may be one of the guiding factors, which is why many asylum seekers travel across Sweden to Finland. I would like to ask: could the government provide Parliament with a comparison of the amount of aid from different countries and also tell us how Finland intends to cope with the cost of tens of thousands of new asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u54	Mr President! This work has already been started by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for its part and, of course, it must be borne in mind that, in the case of asylum seekers, this reception money falls within the remit of the Ministry of the Interior, but, of course, we are working very closely together there. Then, at this point, when asylum seekers receive a residence permit and then move into our system as a whole, there have been quite clear indications of these clear attraction factors, which have then been lured here, because it has been observed that when there were tightening ups in Denmark on social security and its criteria, that on what basis it is granted, it was clearly apparent that asylum seekers left to move to other countries. I also asked to speak on this question by Mr Biaudet, and I would have liked to make a quick comment on it, that I personally see that the most dangerous thing is to take away from people. [President MariaLohela : Minister Mäntylä, now on time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u57	One final question on this subject, Mrs Feldt-Ranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u58	Mr President! Finland has gained more appreciation and position on the international stage, and perhaps also its merits, thanks to our well-established and wise foreign policy. In a few months now, the Foreign Minister and the government have made a number of nasty exits that have undermined this stability. I am referring here to the recent failed OSCE sanctions decision, to this week's public pecking to our neighbour, Sweden, or to this week's EU decision, in which we entered into vague association. Some of our diplomats, and today also the Director of the Institute for Foreign Policy, have also spoken critically about this government's activities. Prime Minister Sipilä, please take these concerns seriously and do not allow Finland's good international reputation to flow from the sewer?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u59	Mr President! I take all the concerns of citizens and parliamentarians seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u60	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u61	Madam President! In addition to the labour market situation this week, cuts in education and training have been referred to. Over the next four years, the government is cutting EUR 3000 million from education. As part of these cuts, student aid is also being cut by as much as EUR 150 million in the 2020s. It may not sound much, but it is more than a quarter of the basic income of students. A quarter of basic income is being cut. I would ask, Minister Grahn-Laasonen: How do you think it is possible to study full-time and graduate in the target period if a quarter of basic income is cut? Does the government really want to return to a situation where only the children of the wealthy have the opportunity to study?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u62	Mr President! It is true that student support is being targeted, as unfortunately, almost everywhere in our society now, at painful cuts and savings, and we have started to build a completely new model of student support in place of the present confused model.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u63	Representatives, please calm down. For those of you who wish to ask further questions, please sign up by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u64	Mr President! It was repeated that 'hey, we're not cutting, we're developing'. The students must be very grateful for this development plan of yours, where a quarter of the basic income is cut off. According to Ilpo Lahtinen, the main designer in charge of student support at Kela, the operation is exceptionally large as a measure for an individual group. Already full-time learning is not possible with such little support, especially in larger cities. You're offering to replace the students with a loan. How, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, can students, as the only group of people, be forced to live as a debt in relation to their basic income?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u65	Mr President! I have already regretted and continue to regret the fact that we have to make these cuts and also have to operate on the students. This is a very regrettable and not a desirable situation, but Finland is in a difficult situation and we have no choice but to take decisions to balance the economy and stop debt. I would like to say to the students that, at the same time as these difficult decisions are taken, we are always trying to ensure that we can secure the best possible tomorrow for the students by making these painful financial decisions and developing our education system. If you laugh at the fact that we are developing our education system, I have to wonder,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u68	Mr President! The Government also wants to completely eliminate direct investment aid for the construction of student housing. This is a very serious deterioration in the housing situation of students. The construction of student housing will decrease and rents will also rise. Housing is the biggest item of expenditure for students. In Finland, students spend a very high proportion of their income on housing on a European basis. Housing is difficult to find, and it is quite alarming that affordable housing is the easiest place to find, for example: Through the Apple Hotel, not the Student Housing Foundation. Does the government really want students to compete even more for affordable housing with other low incomes and spend more time on work while studying at the same time so that rents can be paid?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u69	Mr President! Indeed, as one of the austerity measures, the government is restricting the target group whose special building production is being supported, and here, when it comes to making choices as to the groups in which housing production supported is being targeted in a tight situation, the target group has been selected to be particularly in need of support. In other words, where there is a need for very different housing arrangements, such as for disabled people or other forms of service housing, we feel that that need is even greater and that scarce money is allocated there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u70	Mr President! Now it seems that the government is attacking the most low-income groups. Instead of solving real social problems, you are adding them. Now our main problem is that we do not have enough affordable rental housing, but instead of focusing on obtaining affordable rental housing, you are cutting the housing allowance for the poorest pensioners. You take away the building support from student housing, which means that in the future, students will spend an even greater amount of their living income to pay for living. It seems very sad that this government, this dark government, does not make a single step towards greater equality. In all your actions, you seem to be stepping back on equality. We are facing a class-based education society and inherited uneducated and unemployment through these actions of yours. Don't call them Orwellian for development.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u71	Mr President! The question of this was a little challenging to find, but I will take up this equality in education. That is precisely what is at the heart of our government's programme. We are trying to influence the fact that, once this current development has led us to see inequalities in the quality of education at regional level, for example, it will be possible to respond to this by developing our comprehensive school, for example. We have a wide range of instruments for this, and we will insist, among other things, on strengthening schools in the weaker regions, in the most challenging environments, with this kind of funding for equality in the coming budget year, with more than EUR 10 million next year. In order to continue this work, I am launching a work at the Ministry of Education and Culture to consider how this development can be influenced by the fact that equality in our education is deteriorating.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u73	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u76	One last question on this subject, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u77	Mr President! What Mr Zyskowicz said about history is true. In the past, university studies were practically a secure way to a job, a permanent job, and good income. Unfortunately, by mirroring history, you cannot look at this day, where the highly educated also have rising unemployment, temporary jobs, very low-paid jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u81	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u85	Mr President! This initiative by Mr Sarkkinen is very concrete and deals with a very important issue. By developing household reduction, we can improve the energy efficiency of Finland as a whole. Energy efficiency and decentralised renewable energies are one of the most important solutions to the climate crisis and we need to invest more in them. Energy renovation must be done not only in industry and transport, but also in households. I therefore think it is a good idea for the household allowance to be extended not only to single-family residents but also to those living in terraced houses and flats. Furthermore, as Mr Sarkkinen has just said, there is a great potential for improving energy efficiency in order to create Finnish jobs. Much has been said about energy efficiency, but so far Finland has not done enough. We need more specific proposals of this kind. I hope that this initiative by Mr Sarkkinen will go hand in hand here in Parliament and we will perhaps have more good ideas of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u86	Madam President! We must welcome the legislative initiative that has been taken, and I certainly hope that this will be addressed, because this is exactly what the government wants to promote. In particular, I would have liked the representatives of the centre to have been involved in this debate and, in a way, to support their own objectives of increasing access to decentralised and renewable energy. It is really important that such an element as the household allowance can also be extended to housing companies and the people living in them, because it provides opportunities to bring about a slightly broader solution, and it is possible that it is through such a legislative initiative that new references will be made to Finland about how, for example, own energy use systems can be created in residential flats. Let us first create a market, i.e. open this up, and then operators in different sectors can innovate the different methods of how best to produce deductible solutions that come to this market. So the most important thing now would be for the government to take this issue as a very positive one, and the net measurement that has been presented many times and in the last term of government would be brought back together to the debate, because it is precisely the methods in which individual people can participate and are rewarded that can make it possible for us to move forward more swiftly in order to ensure that each individual can contribute more effectively to preventing climate change. Finally, Mr President, this was a ten-point bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u87	Mr President! I am also strongly in favour of this initiative taken by Mr Sarkkinen and, as has already been said, there are, in fact, a great many positive aspects of this which, when it comes to it, will bring. It both employs — if we think that we are expanding the use of household reduction — it is very important from the point of view of energy efficiency and hence the fight against climate change, and it also provides the opportunity to develop new forms of energy-efficient methods and thus even to open up products that you can export to the world. I would also like to point out here that it is also appropriate to reserve sufficient energy efficiency funds for these, which the municipalities will then use, so that the aid can then be provided for these energy renovations everywhere, if this is to be extended further.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u88	Madam President! Representative Sarkkinen's bill is very good. Personally, I'm glad I got my hands on it when it was about to move on, and I was also able to sign it. In fact, I was surprised that such a household allowance could be used in detached houses, but in such housing companies it was not possible, and I thought about how unequal the residents have been. I would see for myself that this kind of possibility for residents living in a housing company for such renovations under a household allowance is really something that needs to be put into practice quickly. It has a large employment impact and, as the previous speakers have pointed out, it has many good positive effects. I would hope that this bill will not remain on the table for a long time, but will be put into practice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u89	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u90	Mr President! In the spring, when I took this initiative to liberalise opening hours, I certainly did not know that until the initiative was even in the referral debate, the government had already responded to this issue and the liberalisation bill had already been sent to statements in August. It may therefore be quite hopeful that this matter may be moving forward with regard to the coming tourist season, so that Finland will be open to the visitors of winter. The current rules on opening hours for retail shops, barbershops and hairdressers are difficult to understand and contain a wide range of restrictions and exceptions, although efforts have been made to clarify the provisions over the years. The opening hours of stores in Finland have been gradually relaxed since the 1960s. The key reforms have been to allow the evening square until 20:00 at the turn of the 60s and 70s and to continue until 21st century. At the same time, free opening hours were allowed for certain sectors of trade. In 2009, the Sunday Square was expanded during the summer months and in December and November, while the opening hours of grocery stores of less than 400 square metres were extended. For the time being, only Ahvenenmaa has allowed a completely free opening hours in Finland. In many other EU countries, progress has been towards liberalisation, and our neighbouring regions, such as Denmark, Sweden and Estonia, have already been abandoned. It is not known that this has caused major problems. The 2009 change in the liberalisation of stores of less than 400 square metres brought only a few 24-hour open shops and there have been no specific problems in their operations. It is assumed that the full liberalisation of opening hours will in practice not change much of the current opening hours. However, it can be estimated to significantly increase the employment potential of the trade sector. The current restrictions have led to a number of forms of trade being favoured and restrict traders' ability to respond to consumer demand. In the context of the current regulation, it is only possible to take into account customer seasons related to tourism and holidays, for example, with an exception if the Regional Administrative Agency is in favour. There have been problems here, and the granting of permits has been criticised for the fact that the criteria for granting have varied from region to region and the permits have not been granted equally across Finland. The payment of derogations has also been criticised, and it is, of course, counterproductive from the point of view of business that the entrepreneur has to pay not only for other running costs but also for keeping his business open on a specific day. The problem with the exemption provision is also illustrated by the fact that, on several occasions, the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament, either on the basis of a complaint or on his own initiative, has drawn attention to the granting of derogations for the opening hours of shops. The business of general economic effects shops, barbershops and hairdressers is expected to be positive. Trades and shops could serve customers on more flexible opening hours and also on holidays, which would have an impact on their turnover. Liberalisation of opening hours would also have a positive impact on the ability of consumers to operate. Hopefully, the rapid pace of the government will also be achieved with regard to other entries in the Government Programme. One of the objectives recorded in the Government Programme is to introduce a so-called experimental culture for improving services, supporting innovation and strengthening and supporting entrepreneurship and regional and local decision-making. The pilots will be carried out through the pilot programme and systematic pilot activities. There is a need for a culture of experimentation, and experiments must be mobilised quickly and courageously through concrete actions. Pilot projects provide reliable information on, for example, the impact of legislative changes in such a way and with precision that prior impact assessments may not be able to do. The pilot activities should therefore proceed swiftly, for example, on the basis of the ideas gathered in the standard steps. The reduction of restrictive rules on business activities in an inappropriate way would have an adverse economic impact that could be achieved quickly. One clear whole of labour-intensive sectors and small entrepreneurship is the regulation of alcohol. Progress towards its reduction on a judicious basis and through selected experiments would provide practical information on the impact of controlled liberalisation and provide an experiential and reliable knowledge base to identify future regulatory needs. And what does this matter now have to do with the initiative under discussion? In order to raise concerns about how the liberalisation of opening hours will affect the future of these small shops and kiosks and how to ease their situation. One example would be the urgent launch of a pilot law to reduce alcohol regulation. This would mainly apply to small shops, the tourism and restaurant sectors and the small brewing industry. This alcohol-reducing pilot law would not only fit in with the strong experimental spirit of the Government Programme, but would also contribute to the survival of these small players beyond this stage. Strengthening the business opportunities of the sectors would probably contribute to the investment and employment development of these sectors and would also be very important for the maintenance of trade services in sparsely populated areas. The Experimental Act, which is presented here, would be valid for the years 2016 and 2017 and would include, among other things, extensions to sales times of beer and other alcoholic beverages up to 4.7 per cent in shops of less than 400 square metres, the removal of restrictions on manufacturing methods and the incorporation of an alcohol licence into the food authorisation. In the field of restaurant and tourism, the experiment would include, for example, the simplification of regulations and regulations relating to premises, areas and staff and the liberalisation of the opening hours of restaurants without the need for the so-called extension permits. Detailed bans and regulations on liquor, such as a ban on the sale of tobacco, which was ready to be abolished during the last parliamentary term, would obviously be part of this package. For the duration of the experiment, small breweries would be given the right to sell out all their own products. In addition to the measures mentioned here as examples, the government could take other measures for the same experiment, for example after consulting employers' and workers' organisations in the sectors. The pilot phase would include monitoring the impact of changes on health and consumer behaviour, possible disturbances in order and safety, and the employment development and impact of the sectors on investment. The impact would be assessed and conclusions could then be drawn during 2018. Together with Mrs Wallinheimo and Mr Kopra, we have put forward an initiative for action on this issue, which will be signed by the offices in that lobby office until tomorrow, and I hope that as many people as possible will be enthusiastic about supporting this idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u91	Madam President! Representative Mäkelä's bill is more than acceptable, and it is great that the government is in the same line. The Government’s proposal to repeal the Act on Business Time, which is currently under discussion, is an important opening in the area of deregulation. We all know that the digital economy has made the store timeless and unlimited: you can click on the shopping cart at any time and anywhere. e-commerce is expected to grow rapidly in the coming years, and the EU will also do its best to accelerate this development, aiming at the creation of a digital single market. Liberalisation of opening hours is very welcome. It's not today that the government dictates, because shops and hair salons can be kept open. The entrepreneur must be able to decide for himself according to what is needed and what is enough to cope with, because he keeps his shop open and also keeps his shop closed. I personally feel that, in this context, when opening hours are hopefully being liberalised, it would also be natural to exempt the opening hours of restaurants and, as a first step, to waive the requirement for extension permits. And this initiative, which Mr Mäkelä has just raised, is also very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u92	Mr President! In practice, the treatment is the same as in the Government Programme, i.e. the repeal of the Business Time Act governing the opening hours of retail and barbers. That is why we are likely to come back to this point — but it is important, so let us talk about it now. My approach to the matter is twofold. Hairdressers, who are usually self-employed, should have the freedom to decide on the opening hours of their companies, and, for example, on Independence Day should be allowed to comb parties without expensive and difficult special permits. It is important to increase the opportunities for a barber to decide on opening hours. The problem, however, is the liberalisation of the opening hours of the grocery trade, which I have some reservations about. There are a lot of people working in the grocery trade, and the opening conditions of the food trade sector and the business network have a major impact on society as a whole, on other sectors and on large numbers of people. If evening, Sunday and weekend work increases in the grocery trade as a result of the liberalisation of opening hours, it will also have a multiplier effect on other sectors and sectors of society. For example, the need for shift care in day-care centres would increase as a result of the increase in night, night and Sunday work, and this would entail costs for municipalities. Liberalisation of holiday opening hours will also have an impact on the whole culture and family life. If the opening hours of the shops are liberalised, the competitive advantage of the freer opening conditions in small shops will now be eliminated. This is very likely to lead to a shift from small local shops to large field markets, which should lead to a thinning of the local retail network. Already, the trend has been that the number of local shops is decreasing and the number of supermarkets is increasing. Further thinning of the local trade network would be a very poor development from the point of view of car-free people, urban structure and emissions. This is likely to happen if the number of local shops does not increase at the same time, as there is a likelihood that there will be no further opening hours for large stores. There is no clear need for the proposed repeal of the law: according to the study, consumers are mainly satisfied with the opening hours of trade. But there is a clear need to correct the law. The hairdressing and hairdressing business could be excluded from the law and the opening hours of the sector freed from regulation. The exemption procedure should create a simpler, smoother and cheaper process for granting exemptions to trade. Before the government brings its own proposal to abolish the Act on Business Time to Parliament, I sincerely hope that the possible effects of the repeal of the Act will be subject to a careful ex-ante impact assessment and not to the back of the tree: to repeal the law first and to wonder later about the consequences. At least an impact assessment should be carried out on the impact of the liberalisation of the opening hours of shops on the demand for day care and on municipal spending, tax revenues, local trade network and local services, workers and employment, transport and the environment and the multiplier effects affecting other sectors. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Mäkelä, who raised the issue of facilitating the right to sell out small breweries, which I am very much in favour of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u93	Madam President! In the run-up to the elections, almost every party had its own standard bites, and certainly many of us representatives spoke in favour of the dismantling of standards in the turbulent and squares. This bill here, along with the government's proposal to liberalise the opening hours of shops, is proof that the debate on this subject was not in vain. Both the Government and the Representative Mäkelä deserves a big thank you for taking the first important step in a major standardisation project. It is therefore important that this opening should be followed up quickly, and that is why I have been involved in the preparation of the representative. Mäkelä's initiative to reduce alcohol regulation and to assess its impact by means of an experimental law. Mr President! The reasons for this pilot law, which Mr Mäkelä also spoke about, have been well explained in the forthcoming initiative for action. Promoting and strengthening the culture of experimentation is one of the key projects of the Sipilä Government, and their implementation in a credible way requires that they be mobilised as quickly as possible. We know from previous parliamentary periods that the results of the reforms or experiments to be measured in the last months of the parliamentary term usually lead to nothing. This exceptionally tight government is not different in this respect. The political best-before date will take place well in advance of the next parliamentary elections. Secondly, alcohol regulation is an issue that is particularly suitable for a rapid and limited experiment. The current alcohol regulation has a significant impact on the operating conditions of many entrepreneurs in the trade, food, tourism and restaurant sectors, and this experiment would provide first-hand information on the practical impact of many of the changes proposed by entrepreneurs themselves. If the results are positive, the extension of these changes to the whole of Finland could be considered and, on the other hand, if they were negative, that would also be valuable information for us decision-makers. It wouldn't take a lot of resources for an experiment like this. Mr President! I very much hope that this future legislative initiative and, for example, this future action initiative will now produce results. Finland will only succeed if it is reformed, and that would be an excellent tool. So let's try something new.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u94	Madam President! Liberalisation is the word that this country needs now. We have so many different regulations and different rules that prevent development and even prevent work in this country. This country needs work and entrepreneurship. This is the first right step in that direction this season. If we really free the opening hours of shops and the opening hours of barbers and hairdressers, we will at the same time create new jobs in this country. I was absolutely outraged when I heard the fear of the Left Alliance of what would happen if the trade was liberalised. The Left Alliance fears that there will then be new jobs in day-care centres, commuting et cetera, cleaning up, shop and barber workers. I can't believe this. It is clear that if trade is liberalised, it will also create new jobs. According to the good old Tampere Regional Occupational Health Institute, every new job created will create 1.5 other jobs in this country as a multiplier effect and every lost job will lead to 2.5 jobs. This is something to think about when we talk about whether trade is to be freed or not. Are small stores going to die because the big stores are open? They're not gonna die. If small shops can keep their doors open, it means that more and more stone feet in this city, with empty windows, will be filled with goods sold again. We have a lot of tourists who come here when there is a holy time, because it is also sacred for people who are allowed to go on holiday. People are surprised that when they come to Helsinki there is nothing to buy, there is nowhere to go on Saturday or Sunday, and even worse, think — this too should be taken to the same thing — go to Helsinki on Sunday to find a place to eat, a place to eat, a place to eat, other than hamburgers and French fries or nachos. I can't find it. These are things we should get right. Yes, the rolling stone is such that it will not be mossed if it can spin. The store has to spin, the money has to spin, the money has to move. It will create new employment. It's a new source of well-being. It takes this whole country forward. The mere fact that on holidays, such as the Independence Day, we women will be able to put our hair on cheaper terms is not a justifiable reason for the liberalisation of regulation in this regard, but a legitimate reason for it is that trade is free and that it creates new jobs. I know it is said here that this will increase costs, because we have Sunday work to do. Yes, we do. But when the trade is booming, note: Then the employer will also have the opportunity to pay the kind of wages that should be paid for it. When we get this country on our feet, we don't have to talk about zero agreements anymore and we don't have to try to take down the working people of this country, but this will support people getting a decent livelihood, a decent reward for what people do. A very well-supported bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u95	Madam Speaker! Last time shop opening hours were liberalised, there were no significant job creation phenomena in the trade sectors, so it is very unlikely that it will happen today, but it is likely that purchasing power will be distributed more evenly over the different days of the week and will move from these small shops to larger shops, which will continue to be open. And this purchasing power that goes into large stores will then have these negative social effects. Up to now, the number of small transactions has continued to decline and the number of large transactions has increased. The responsible legislator will also assess these effects before any legislative changes are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u96	Mr President! This proposal by the government, which has now taken up its opinions, has assessed these effects on employment. According to this, the liberalisation of opening hours would increase the opportunities for new employees to be employed in shops and, according to trade estimates, the liberalisation of opening hours would have a significant impact on the industry's ability to provide hours of work. However, it is stated here that, in this economic situation, the effects would be reflected, rather than in the recruitment of new staff, in the form of cancellations of staff reductions or additional hours for existing employees, which in itself is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u97	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä's comment that the government estimates that jobs will increase with this bill or later with the government's proposal: it is an estimate. However, there is a study of the fact that the opening hours of shops and barbershops in 2009 were affected, and these studies show that jobs have not increased and that in fact the number of part-time employees has increased in retail trade and in particular in grocery trade. Mr President! I also wonder about Mr Tolppanen's vision of how the stores in Helsinki will be filled with goods. Where do we people have the money to do the shopping? I do not believe that with this liberalisation of opening hours our purchasing power will increase any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u98	Madam President! First of all, when shop opening hours were released the previous time, they were only partially released. It could not create full-time jobs, it could only create part-time jobs. The aim is now to liberalise trade so that shops can also be kept open on holidays and open on holidays, and this will clearly bring more work. This will enable people now working part-time to be recruited for a possible full-time job. And where the extra money comes from, it comes from, you know, just to take the billions that are currently being saved by people in banks. People have the chance to spend that money and get the market running, get the money running. And also those who come to Finland — not only to Helsinki, they also come to Vaasa and Rovaniemi — bring their own pieces to shops that are open when people are there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u99	Mr President! These are neither stetson estimates nor mutter estimates, which I quote here, but I have quoted this proposal, which has therefore already gone to the opinion, and reference has been made to the reports made in 2012 on the condition of Parliament for extending the opening hours of shops, and to what has been reported on trade and consumer matters in the preparation of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Mr Tolppanen has just left the Chamber. He said that the last time the opening hours were extended, there was no full-time work, when it was not as if enough. A rather peculiar view, because trade used to have very much full-time employment relationships, when Finland's opening hours were much more limited than at present. In other words, I am not in a position to believe — even if I have worked in the trade sector for a long time — that this change in the law would suddenly change this trend and that the trade sector would start to pursue a better human resources policy, since it did not happen at last, despite promises, and part-time work has been increasing all the time. Moreover, one must marvel at the view of Tolppane that if the store is open at night, then people will begin to use their savings to buy apparently more milk and diapers at night. So at the same time as the government cuts people's purchasing power, it's very falsifying to think that these night squares and holy squares then somehow
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u101	And another response, Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u102	Yes, here I would like to quote these assessments, that the reform is not expected to lead to extensive shift work in the area of trade, because there are hardly any examples of the night square of large shops in the countries that have moved to free opening, and it is also stated here that the assessment of the trade sector is that there are indeed more workers who are willing to work on weekends and on Sundays than the work is available.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u103	Back to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u104	Mr President! I know that Mr Mäkelä is an experienced and influential coalition politician, and that is why I find it a little hard to believe that, in making the bill, he would not have been aware of this record already made in the Government Programme and of the fact that we can get this law here in Parliament. Either way, in any case, in the form of a law, we will now, through the actual draft law, get the matter into greater consideration. A report was made last season, as has already been said here. There really were a few things that I hope will be considered when the law is still being prepared in the Ministry. One thing has already risen here: this increase in the number of jobs and hours worked: The fact is that since 2010, the number of hours worked per employee in the retail trade has not increased, although opening hours have expanded. Then, if we look at Germany again, for example, the number of temporary jobs in Germany has increased with the expansion of opening hours. In other words, in a way, Finland should achieve a different kind of employment development, and I hope that this will be addressed. Then the purpose of the current law, which has also been to ensure the viability of these supermarkets and kiosks, has already been raised here, thus enabling more Finnish trade services to be provided locally. This is also worth considering very carefully that this will continue to be the case. And we must also consider this aspect of public services. It must then be remembered that these entrepreneurs were raised here that the last Parliament received a bill which now sought to secure the one day a week for entrepreneurs, even on the day off. It is important to continue to note that. Finally, and perhaps somewhat surprisingly, studies show that consumers do not need to extend their opening hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u105	Mr President! I understand the idea of this bill and the hope that this will perhaps lead to more jobs, and also the idea that the entrepreneur is the one who knows best when to keep the trade open. But I do have certain concerns about this. When the opening hours of shops have been extended in the past, there have been real concerns about what happens to small shops, especially in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas, and that is why these larger opening hours are limited to small shops. I understand that this has been quite a wise policy, because, according to the studies, when opening hours were released, it has indeed flowed for the benefit of large supermarkets. In our ageing Finland, there is an increasing number of elderly people who would do well to get close to the store, so I do have concerns about this that progress will continue along the same lines. Last time has been helped by such small village shops investment support, which no longer exists and with which this issue has been tried little to help, but despite the fact that our village stores have decreased at a ferocious pace, not only in village shops, but also in such larger shops. I hope these will be taken into account in the preparation of this law. In fact, I am also concerned that family time will become increasingly fragmented if mothers or fathers work on Sundays and Saturday nights. As a matter of fact, I thought that the last law was very ingenious when it came to making the restriction that on Saturday the shops would be closed at six o'clock and Sunday would not open until 12 o'clock, because that would leave the family at least one night together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u106	Madam President! This picture of Finland's present is not something to be praised for. Yes, this is a Finland of unemployment and regulation. Of course, this bill and the government's future intentions will then be dismantled during the opening hours you can criticise and see threats, but I personally see this as a line issue and as part of a larger whole. We just have to go piece by piece to dismantle the different-looking regulation. This is quite correct, and I have the impression that the government has a good line anyway. And after a lot of discussion on the promotion of our exports, competitiveness, nothing will change if the line clearly does not change. And in that respect I am very grateful, and this gives me the confidence that now we are going to give people freedom, entrepreneurs freedom to act, and buyers freedom to do whatever is best for them. This is part of the local deal. I think that the traders and the people there themselves know how that situation will take shape in the long run. You don't have to go from the outside and especially from far away to force it into law. And, of course, all laws are mandatory.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u107	Mr President! I had the opportunity, the last time this legislation and the related staff working conditions were evaluated at the same time, to be very involved in the negotiations. Of course, this legislative change must be seen not only from the consumer's point of view but also from the point of view of the workers in the sector, but also from the point of view of entrepreneurs, and a balanced solution of this kind must be sought. At the time, it was not just a legislative amendment, but at the same time matters affecting the status of staff, because such a major change affects staff working hours, salaries, services, family arrangements, school, all of these, and then a package of solutions was created which also took these factors into account. There are 300,000 people working here in the trade sector, so that of course we must also take into account what happens to their position, and it is important that these are negotiated at the same time. Two thirds of the grocery trade is concentrated in large supermarkets and hypermarkets. Many researchers say that this opening can increase this concentration and reduce the importance of smaller shops outside urban areas, and of course this employment effect may come through part-time work. In other words, my message is that now that the actual government proposal has come to an end — after the consultation has ended on Monday — all these factors would be assessed before drawing conclusions, not only whether or not trade legislation is being liberalised, but also how it will affect the lives of these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u108	Mr President! This liberalisation of the retail market is welcome both in the south and in the north, and especially in our tourist area we have had a very difficult time explaining to our tourists at times why, today, I cannot shop when it is otherwise suitable for the programme. All in all, the dismantling of standards is the Government Programme's promise that society will be more smooth. Of course, concern about how the care of families and children will be arranged is justified, but I have received the message that many people will be happy to do them on Sunday shifts then, which is the arrangement that suits them. In fact, the smallest store owner in our town told them that they will have new jobs when this law becomes reality, while the CEO of the big market estimates that they will have no change in opening hours, except for the individual days. In other words, the purpose of this is to give the entrepreneur the opportunity to decide how his shop or business is to operate and not to bind it by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u109	Mr President! For my part, I am pleased that this issue is already a source of debate at this stage. As we have heard here, the consultation has come to an end and I am sure that we will then assess what will really happen here. Representative Salonen was concerned about the fact that entrepreneurs would be off for one day. I believe that this proposal is well taken into account. On the other hand, Mr Mikkonen was concerned about the survival of these small shops, and in this regard it is with Mr Kopra and Mrs Wallinheim that we now want to speed up the start of this experimental culture, accompanied by this initiative for action on these alcohol issues, which is to be signed there, and I certainly hope that there will be a great deal of involvement in it. Further on these studies relating to the opening hours of these shops: In 2012, the Finnish Commerce Federation asked whether "the extended opening hours of stores affect your household's everyday life" and 67.6% thought that the extended opening hours would make it easier and give more flexibility to organise everyday life, and only 0.7 per cent felt that the extended opening hours would in some way make it difficult to organise household schedules and daily life.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u110	Mr President! Factual information on whether it was 2009 or 2010 had been brought here that the recent change in the law on opening hours would not have had a major impact on the number of jobs. Well, it's obvious: we've been in recession for almost seven years, so I'm sure we won't be able to get the facts out of this right now. But in the future, I believe that this bill and the forthcoming government proposal will certainly have a job-creating effect. There was also talk of these shops of less than 400 square meters. Indeed, I believe that this initiative, which has been taken with Mr Kopra and Mr Mäkelä, could in future make it an attraction to these smaller trades by means of a certain dismantling of alcohol regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u111	Mr President! The representatives of Wallinheimo and Mäkelä is very active in the liberalisation of this sector, and I also find this issue of alcohol interesting. My view is that beer and wine should also be brought to the grocery store. I have been familiar with this in many countries and last time in America and asked the owners of the gas station carefully. A small gas station provided very good food and coffee and everything, and then if you wanted to buy wine or beer, you could take along, but you were not allowed to take the strong. There this was quite optimal for me, because I was able to go there at eight o’clock in the morning and didn’t have to look at the clock. I believe that this is the direction that Finland should go in and trust the citizens. When there was a New Year’s party, there must have been 150,000 people. I didn't see any drunks. We have to think of something else if we have alcohol problems. You can't just go down there with a piece of legislation. I believe that this is a line issue, and I urge and hope that the government will continue along this path and over the next four years take as much of these reforms as possible, because I see that this is the way in which work is being created. Of course, what Mr Ihalainen has said here, we must ensure that the views of the workers are taken into account and that no one is employed in such a way as to cause undue harm to him or the family. But I'm not so afraid of this job myself, because I can tell you so much about the veterinary profession, what I used to do, that every time I was on call this weekend, it was 63 hours that lost. Somehow it feels like if you try to do something on Sunday or otherwise, it's an abomination. For me, this is a little incomprehensible. Of course we have to sort things out, but we shouldn't be afraid to work. The more regulation is opened up and the more opportunities available, the more entrepreneurs will become. In fact, I believe that if these opening hours of shops are liberalised, as will happen, and alcohol policy is also released, then it is in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u112	Madam President! It seems funny that barbers and hairdressers — many of them entrepreneurs, self-employed — are not on the same line with other self-employed people, such as the excavator driver. The excavator gets lumps on weekends, at night on construction sites, the barber is not allowed to do his own work without an exception — an exception, which must be paid to work even on holidays. How would it be if electricity companies needed special permission to leave for emergency work when some electrical equipment is broken down, or if the Ivi company had to apply for an exemption to repair water damage on the holiday? I would like all entrepreneurs to be put on the line at the same time and to be able to work when services are needed from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u113	Mr President! I have not yet been familiar with this initiative on the liberalisation of alcohol, but what has been heard in this Chamber today seems to have quite good ideas. For example, direct sales of small breweries and other things sound reasonable, and it also sounds like we need to think about such a wise, moderate alcohol policy that does not necessarily benefit from the bans, and that certainly does not necessarily help our problems, but rather a reasonable and moderate alcohol policy. But I can't believe it's going to be the rescue of our rural village shops, if with this experiment they can sell alcohol, unlike the big supermarkets. In my opinion, however, it is perhaps worth acknowledging that it is not enough to support the preservation of these village shops, but something else needs to be done if we are to ensure that those village shops will continue to exist, and otherwise opening hours will be released.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u114	Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank everyone for a good debate and positive feedback and encouragement, including for this pilot law on alcohol control and its impact. Indeed, that initiative of measures is to be signed in that part-session service if anyone still wishes to sign it. Tomorrow's the day we're supposed to leave it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u115	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The draft amending budget proposals will be sent to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u116	Madam President! The Social Democrats have tabled three budget initiatives in this amending budget. One concerns these long-standing employment appropriations, which have been spoken of yesterday, and their inadequacy. We want more resources there. In addition, there are two initiatives in the area of education and training, which is to add one million more to vocational training and then to adult education and training, and these relate to this same problem of unemployment and, among other things, to the job losses in the ICT sector. The Government proposes a little more that can, well, secure this acute situation in the Salo region, but we all know that this restructuring will hit many localities, and many localities need this re-training of people in the ICT sector: Tampere, Oulu, etc. That is why these increases in the appropriations for education and science are also part of this as a whole, which relates to the fact that people simply need to be given jobs and the unemployed need to be able to employ and provide them with support in the labour market. This employment initiative is also accompanied by the Group leader of the Green Committee on Finance, and I can say, I dare say, that the Left Alliance is also involved in spirit. Although their signature was not yet in this initiative, we have discussed it together, and I am sure that we have also discussed it in committee on the same front as the opposition will demand changes in these matters in the spring. This is a very serious place, as has been said overall. Let us just say that last spring we saw that there was a big gap, a really big gap, in terms of employment appropriations. As early as the spring, it was known that in many areas the budget is running out and in many areas it is very soon running out. All experts from different regions knew this, and more money was desperately needed. At that time, Parliament, at the beginning of the summer, had a big debate about this. An amending budget was adopted which did not include this increase in the employment allocation. We in the Committee on Budgets went through this, were concerned, and the government parties also came into our own report with that concern, but unfortunately when the Social Democrats called not only for the record of its concern but also for the action of the facts, that is, the budget, then the government did not want to be involved. So we Social Democrats are calling for a new amending budget to be brought in at the beginning of autumn, even if it is a little too late then, but in any case it must be brought in. Now, in this amending budget, the government is proposing a small amount of additional employment appropriations. It is a pity and a very serious matter that this money is still not enough. They barely account for one third of the need, people are unemployed, people are worried about tomorrow, and now many unemployed people are left completely, completely alone. At the same time, when we really reflect on this situation, let us note the unfortunate fact that our unemployment figures are getting worse and worse. For example, the Ministry of Finance has increased its own unemployment estimate from 8.5 to 9.3%, and long-term unemployment, for example, has risen by 20% from one year ago. None of us can be indifferent to these readings. There are more young unemployed people and we need to be able to do something. President! I would like to say that yesterday we had a very interesting debate on these issues. It seemed a little like the government parties did not want to understand enough of this concern, and I was particularly confused by what the Minister responsible, Mr Lindström, said. We asked him, in fact, when we know that this need for this money is about 90 million, and it turned out that Minister Lindström himself had made — he is a minister, he has the power to perform — only 30 million. Why? Unemployment rates are getting worse, people are getting more and more lucky, and the government's responsible minister is only proposing a third of the amount that would be necessary, and unfortunately this is not enough, but the government and Minister Lindström will also be prepared to continue with a narrow line next year, even on the savings lines, which means cuts to the employment budget for next year will be less than 50 million. Surgery in this situation, when unemployment gets worse and worse. This equation is absolutely untenable. Then it came to light that Minister Lindström felt little that now that he was a minister he could not present enough money, but is it not the case that it is the minister who should do it? I looked at the alternative budget for the Finns who lived there last winter, and there Lindström, the chairman of the Finnish Parliament group at the time, proposed 75 million more to the employment budget. Well, it has not been many months since these winter snows, when Minister Lindström suddenly proposes future cuts in employment appropriations and excuses them here in the Chamber. I think it is now that Mr Lindström, the chairman of the parliamentary group, is a completely different person than that Minister Lindström. This is what we asked why, and I would like to say here too — the Chamber is empty, unfortunately, a few Members are here, but there is no one in the Council of Ministers, so I am not saying that unfortunately, it is great that the representatives are here, but unfortunately there is no one in the Council of Ministers — that this question is still open, and I will continue to expect an answer to it. As long as I have that answer, I will ask: why did Minister Lindström only present a third of the financial need for this money? And to top it all off, it is not enough for me to ask about it — I believe that so many people today who have no work are waiting for the same answer. Now, President, when this committee procedure begins, I appeal in a good spirit to the government parties: catch up on this concern of the people. The Minister has the right to speak, but Parliament can also decide, and if the government parties come into this socialist initiative and the money the opposition wants is ready to raise, we will be able to do so. We are really starting to deal with the committee there, and I hope that we will have a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u117	Madam President! To that extent, Mr Viitanen's criticism of Lindström is that 30 million will now be put there and last year...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u120	Mr President! This budget debate is based on the fact that there is an alternative to the government and there is an alternative to the opposition. The SDP is currently making its own alternative budget that challenges this government's cold right-wing economic policy line. We will be making proposals to increase the employment budget. We will see to it that someone a little more well-off participates more in these efforts. There's plenty of room. I am very disappointed about that, President, that the Finns of Peru have now moved completely to this right-wing bourgeois government line. This government of Soin—Siplä is very saddened to leave good-for-profit candidates ready to join the weakest, the smallest, unemployed people. I am particularly surprised that Mr Hakkarainen has also gone along with this. It would have been necessary for you to speak the same message that you spoke to your constituents before the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u121	Mr President! I also wanted to take the floor here because, despite the fact that the evening has run and the Chamber is reasonably empty and there is no one on the right side, this matter itself is extremely important. And the question is what are we going to do when unemployment starts to grow? That is quite a big question: Is it the case that when unemployment starts to grow, society will do nothing and it will all be left to the individual who has become unemployed? Or is it the case that society must do what society has to do and look at the support measures that can support the return to work and also provide the right kind of training so that, when the rise begins, people will have the skills they need and as many people as possible will get over this difficult phase? This is partly a philosophical question, which line you believe in: is it a tough line of market forces, or is it the starting point that market forces are a good host but a bad man and that in such a situation of unemployment society must do what it can? I myself am one of those who believe that this responsibility of society is quite an important part of this success for us. That is, to a great extent, the Nordic model. All Nordic thinking in all It has been the case in the Nordic countries that, in the event of unemployment, it does not fall solely on the individual's shoulders and it is not the individual's fault, but also on the part of society, which has left the direct employment budget and then the various appropriations for training and return to work. And now it looks like it, and this is the bigger question, that this additional budget, in a way, tells us that the government's conscious choice is that the government washes its hands by saying that the money is out. And then it seems that some of the representatives of the government parties who have a very personal experience of unemployment are going to repeat that the money is out. And it is a strange thing that the money is running out at the very moment when something should be done for employment, but then there is money, for example, to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the reduction of the car tax, although it is quite clear that it is not going to increase employment at the moment, and it is hardly going to increase exports so much that the price of imported goods is being reduced. These are also choices for which money is spent. There could be many other examples, but I will now take this one when it happens to be a timely example. So we are in a situation where this side is not interested, and then the starting point is that when there is a lot of unemployment, then we start to weaken working conditions, drive unemployment security down and start by trying to cope with this cheap labour concept. But all the research tells us, and there is a great deal of these that in developed societies there is no alternative that cheap labor can survive, because always from below comes some other nation that offers even cheaper labor. By this I do not mean that any wage can be justified, but the competitive advantage of cheap labour will not come to Finland, as will no Western society that is reasonably advanced in development. You can see this now when you look at, for example, what has happened to the textile industry. First it left Finland, went to Portugal, then a moment later it was found in Portugal that even here the costs are too high. So this was the end of the '70s in Portugal. Then we left for Eastern Europe, and long ago from that eastern Europe we left for China, and now Bangladesh has gone to Bangladesh, and now we go to Vietnam and so on. If that competitive advantage is cheap labour, there will always be those countries that are able to provide much more labour at a much lower cost. That cannot be our strategy; our policy must be this investment in people's knowledge. Then we come to an additional budget, that is to say, whether, when unemployment rises, we invest in this knowledge and start with the fact that when a job disappears, society becomes responsible by putting more money into people's vocational training, improving skills requirements, improving skills, or is it to be imagined that this will be done on its own? For a while, Mr. Hakkarainen. It's gonna be like this for a while. But when that rise is, then we will have thousands of people who have been excluded from working life when they have long been out of it. This is also known from both Finland and the world, most recently from the development of the 1990s, so that the millions that are now being used are, after all, quite a good investment. Unfortunately, this government proposal will not correct this distortion which is now visible in that employment office on a daily basis. There is a lot of people there, Mr Hakkarainen, including entrepreneurs who would have a job, who could come to work if there were little support from the employment office. There are a lot of unemployed people who would go into business with start-up money. But since the summer, we've been selling nouns. This was well told to Parliament before the summer holidays, which was made clear in the consultation of the Committee on Finance. At that time, the Committee on Finance, as Mr Viitanen described in his excellent speech, unanimously stated that this should be addressed. The only thing that happened now is that such a mouse was born from this debate, which is tinkering with the extent of this problem. Well, then Mr Hakkarainen himself rightly asked for this funding. It is only in that way that, as the more experienced, those who have made the budget longer in Parliament remember, when the revenue side is not open, unfortunately we do not have the funding to do so, because the parliamentary rules prevent us from opening up other items, opening up other items of expenditure, or even proposing reductions in some expenditure, or not to mention opening up the revenue side, so there is now no possibility of doing so. But that is what comes when we discuss next year's budget, then we can also open up this revenue side. Then we need to talk about this employment policy, about the growth policy, which will have an impact on our most pressing issue, namely exports. Then there is also talk on the revenue side of how these are financed in a fair way. That's when we get to that big conversation. Now I have to come through a little smaller corner, but this is also a useful conversation. I hope, too, that when these representatives The excellent initiatives are being discussed in the Committee on Budgets, and Parliament and the Committee on Finance would consider that, at the end of the day, quite small money can help thousands of people's lives and then we will have the power and strength to strike when the next rise comes. Because it's coming, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u122	Madam President! I am not going to make a debut on this, but I am quite sure that I know Lindström well enough to work hard, to work and to do what he can. I am absolutely sure about that, but when you have nothing to share, empty in a cup, you can't snoop out of there if you have an empty cup, at least not on a scooch. And then, when we talk about this car tax, that's what it's supposed to do — I understand that for the poor it doesn't help anything, they drive cheap cars and that tax doesn't help anything — when we talk about emissions and things like this and about moving to a newer fleet of cars, that it was trying to speed up the emission-free, newer fleet of cars to get it here to Finland. That is the only intention. Financially, that doesn't matter. And about the cheap labour, as you mentioned there, I say that it is not intended to keep anyone working cheaply. But if we spend 20 euros a year raising wages and being an export company, it will be put at the price of the plank bundle, which will be traded abroad. It operates only by market forces and not by anything else, neither regulation nor anything. This is where the market forces work. And if that EUR 20 exceeds its competitor's product, then it goes to the competitor for that product. This is how it plays. And from these I understand that the well-being is being built, the cake that we can share, among other things, in employment. Right? Employment appropriations
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u123	Madam President! It's not like anyone wants to live for it. We don't want to live for it. Our option explicitly makes a different choice of values. That's what it's all about, isn't it? I do not see how Mr Hakkarainen is always blindly believing that there is not enough money for the unemployed, that there is not enough money to invest in a good school for young children, that there is not enough money for families with children, that there is not enough money for students, that there is not enough money for pensioners from whom you are hard-handed to cut their income. You don't think there's enough money for all this. I can't believe it's empty. At the same time, there is enough money to support, for example, the construction of barns, which is what the government is now proposing. So these are value choices, and we need to see it. And then, when it comes to the Finns of Finland, especially Mr Hakkarainen, who is now very much repeating this line by Stubb, Sipilä and Soin, this cold political attitude, I ask you, where are the mountain counselors from?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u124	Mr President! When Mr Hakkarainen said that the debt cannot be lived, I have to tell you that at the same time you are proposing a EUR 200 million car tax, which is financed by debt. Or do you have your own printing works there in the sawmill also in use to finance this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u127	Madam President! This is the ride we're in right now. There's no way out of it. But of those Beerers and Audes, and of them, the rich buy them. And if we talk about these emission reductions, those cars are in the price range of 20,000 and something with small emissions. After all, those expensive BMWs have high emissions and then they pay taxes on them. And then to the point where we're going to take a debt, the guy who buys the car is going to pay for it. The debt is not the debt that comes directly from there. And then about these money-rich: I don't care, I'm a poor guy and I've had to do a lot of work since I was a kid. I know what that life is there, and those money-rich stock market speculators don't give a shit. But I have noticed such a thing — and you know it too — that now that we are in a global world and that money moves where it produces best, the rich one can transfer that money to Portugal or wherever it produces. If we touch it very much... I would like to hit my hand there, I won't say it, but when it's such an invisible, faceless power that moves away when you go to it to try to touch it. In other words, when we go there to pinch them, they move away and we lose our investments, business, even more run away. How would you, Mr. Heinäluoma, catch this vein?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u128	Madam President! By the way, the Social Democrats are in favour of a financial market tax, a global tax that taxes what is not yet taxed in this world, that is, money trading, among other things. That would be fair, that would be fair. By the way, we were perplexed by the fact that last season the Finns of Peru were opposed to this tax. At the time, the trade in money was not to be taxed when the Social Democrats wanted to. Now and then it gets a little confused who finally wants what he wants, but now that you have just said that you are on board, you are happy to be on board. That is what it looks like when I look at this and the speeches made by your representatives. Except for the fact that you're on that cold board of government, you'd love to be there. That confuses and amazes me precisely because I thought that the Finns of Peru want to be the working and working party and the People's Party. That's what I thought, and I'm sure the people thought. In the run-up to the elections, you had great confidence there, and congratulations on that, but yes, there must be a certain responsibility after the election. It now feels as if, even today, during Question Time, listening to this speech that we want to cut salaries in the face, let us not give up on the need to get a 5% reduction in wages. Why do you want to cut that workman's and the workman's, the metal worker's, the nurse's? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u129	Mr President! After all, tax decisions here are less frequent in the context of an additional budget, but then every autumn, when the next year's budget is adopted, taxation is open, and capital taxation is one of the areas that also affects the good people. After the Aho government, the level of capital taxation was set at 25%, which was really low, and which then blew up the conversion of wages into capital income in all the groups that could only get to the nail. When capital income was low-taxed, there was no interest in taking wage income anymore. It was gradually corrected from 95 Lipponen's first government, and it was then that there were rather far-sighted consensus people, including the then Nokia's CEO, Jorma Ollila, who was in this Matti Pekkanen's Employment Task Force, who saw the need for a balanced policy and also for those who are well-off to take part in these efforts, and from there came the proposal to address this 25% capital tax rate. It was then raised to 28, and now, in the context of this recession, the demos drove through that it was raised to 30% and finally made the capital income slightly progressive, taking a little more out of the larger capital income. So these are hundreds of millions of acts of justice, and if you look often for years, billions of euros of money has come from here to spend on all good things. In other words, these are choices, and they will now be in the autumn when we reach the actual budget. This way of calculating wages is a cruel and hard road and will be reflected in demand. Quite a lot of people forget that what is going to be for one company is coming for another. Then when you cut that salary, there's less people in the co-op shop on Viitasaari, and the restaurant's the same thing. Buy less, build less, rebuild less. We are at great risk of going down this downward spiral. I noticed that
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u130	Mr President! For the representative of Heinäluoma, the observation that he was calling for a higher capital tax here is that the government is now coming up with a proposal to increase this higher capital tax rate by 1 percentage point. I think it's a step in that direction that the Heinäluota is pursuing. Much higher can no longer be achieved with regard to capital taxes. We already have the tax rate on the pin. As far as this income tax is concerned, there are now tax cuts coming from the government, which are specifically focused on those on low and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u131	Madam President! We discussed taxation for the good people and for these people and how to make money there. I was not in government negotiations, but when I listened to it there would not have been much of that accumulation in the end game. And exactly as I just said: This is the kind of faceless, invisible power that moves to the place where it produces best. It does not ask us about our regulations or anything, in no way. It only asks where it produces and produces best. It's going in there. Yes, I would like to strike my hand at it, but at least I have no wisdom or understanding of it, and I'm sure there are such. But everything is conditional on us getting the economy in order. We do share our share — now we share things that do not exist. There's a lot of sharing people, and that's what I'm... It's easy to do, and such a thing that even if you're a billionaire, one night or a week you can dispose of your property. So it's easy to make smooth. But whoever does it, it's a harder profession, and you have to create the conditions for this. I am always calling for us to have business, investment and so on. Last season, environmental law came in. The industry received an additional bill of over 700 million. This is the message to the world and investors?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u136	Mr President! I will return to this debate on fairness and money income when a representative whom I appreciated earlier pointed out that the percentage will rise here in large capital income. That came after the government program was severely criticized for the fact that these bailiffs do not apply in any way to the well - off, not in any way to the well - off. We talked about this all June. Then the Prime Minister said that it is not possible to touch here that the tax rate cannot rise. It was the new mantra: the tax rate cannot rise. Well, now the government has been forced to realise that this government line is uneven and, fortunately, a small part of it was revised — I would say, with the same amount as employment appropriations in this additional budget. But when there is an additional 1% tax on large capital income, the government imposes a 5% cut on employees — a 5% cut. For those who have a pretty good record as recipients of capital income, one per cent more is asked, but for these shift workers, nurses, policemen, bus drivers, merchants, paper workers
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u139	Madam President! Those workers really get a big cut in the money bag through this, and it is, of course, very difficult in the everyday lives of many people when this happens. But I would like to repeat this now, because it really did raise quite a lot, this speech by Mr Heinäluoma, that it is indeed true that the employee, the sawman or it in the store, is being forced into a 5% reduction in wages in one way or another. You get a little bit like watching whether Sunday compensation or shift pay or holiday pay or whatever — as long as that salary drops by 5% that it is the government’s goal. It is not at all in relation to the fact that then, for them, who is doing reasonably well, and then a percentage is required of those who are a little better off. This was an important insight, because this is also such a thing that people do think about whether this is fair, whether it is fair. And the one thing we've all been talking about is that we're all in the same boat. By the way, I do not believe that we are all in the same boat as long as this situation is like that, that only others have life jackets. Yes, in some way this fairness must be sought, and this was a good and illustrative example now of these choices, that 1 percent and others then 5. And when you say here that the economy is in order, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, those economists when they say — as Mr Heinäluoma said here — that Etla also calculated the growth forecast because of these cuts. Ratingr Fitch lowered the growth forecast because the government is cutting. So it is quite incredible that, when economists start warning that the economy is dwindling because it is being cut off, then we will simply cut in order to say that the economy is being set up and that jobs are being created, when basic logic tells us that this is not the way it is going to work, but the other way round: then there will be no jobs. And I hope you take this seriously. This economic policy is very lame in this respect and based on false assumptions, and at this rate we are in even greater and worse shape, not to mention that if then Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u140	Madam President! I don't know about these economists. Someone was there now, someone specifically Nobelist said that these are in the right direction, that they will bring the economy back to shape and stability. I do not know if it is true, but when Mr Heinäluoma comes from this price of wood, that 75% of the price of the log is made up of the price of the log, so if you think that tree is grown, it is 100 years on average, 80 to 100 years depending on the species, then how much is going to go to grow the tree, if we go now to grow that trunk, for that money? I don't have a calculation on it, but I'm pretty sure it's close to that 75%. Large forest owners do well, but there are a lot of small farms with between 40 and 50 hectares. They're not gold mines, they're certainly not, they don't live on. It has been calculated that there must be 300 hectares of forest for someone to live on. And then there's that saw. It was said that the price of wood at the sawmill was EUR 75 or EUR 70. The price of the plank in the world is 200 euros. It needs to be sawed in one solid 2.1 of that round wood. Its raw material price will then already be EUR 140. The sawing on it, the drying, the cargo to the port and the shipping, so there are not very many large slices to be taken from there either. But it is 0.4% if it is brought down, it will certainly affect the economy of its company. It's working and it's getting smaller. If the saw uses a million cubic metres of wood, the Evening Journal immediately writes that the million-dollar profit was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u141	Mr President! It warms the heart when you listen to Mr. Hakkarainen’s very warm concern about wood and the price of wood
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u146	Madam President! I wonder what a long night this is gonna be. To that level of cost, the price of wood is too high for the sawmill, but the sawmill wants quality wood, and it will grow. Then the forest owner will also have to make an account with it. And they go hand in hand: if you want good products for the world, that tree must be grown. Let's go to this sawmill industry. That's something I understand. But we've got a nasty thing going on here. Russia also does business, and they don't have this kind of thing as we do, that's put out for competition over there, exclaimed forests, then each one of them buys from there, who makes the best offer, and the seller sells. There is no such system in Russia. They can say that it is EUR 5 right there in the tree area, and they take what they have to use and sell it to the world almost for the price they want. Then we'll follow. So these are the kind of market forces that dictate terms. They're not asking about our social security or anything, they're certainly not going to. The entrepreneur who's doing it has to run along with these straws, that's for sure, and they're swinging. They're swinging, and here's the art. If the unexistent slice that comes out of it is still licked away, there is a wither ahead. It’s like this — it’s a market economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u147	Mr President! I will return to this cost structure of the sawmill and to whether anything will be done about it. The answer is that nothing is done about this additional budget, because there are no proposals here to abolish the fairway charge, which would affect all the foreign trade that goes forward from the Viitakoski sawmill, and not the rail tax that also affects costs, and there is no reduction in the energy tax on industry that would reduce costs and that would affect here and now and that could be decided immediately by the government. You don't have to wait until 2017 as the government is now waiting on the package. And when Mr Hakkarainen was thinking about how long the tree will grow and that a good price should be paid for a good tree, I suppose that is where the Viitasaari sawmill must also be paid to a professional. If he's good, he'll be paid a fair price, won't he?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u152	Madam President! For that kind of employment, I think even with that salary, no matter how high it is, if it produces a little more for the employer than it takes... But now let's assume that I'm the one who's employed Kille and Kalle. It's absolutely certain it's taking me away, it's an investment for me. Its first few years will be a loss when it is trained to do so. No matter what kind of professional school it was, I'm sure there's no blacksmith at birth. I know that much about the industry. Then there's Kalle, learns the job fast, it starts to produce better. Then it is to Kille, and it may never produce a single thing, that it goes below the line, but there is really nothing you can do about it in this situation. In other words, it is the cost of the better worker, in principle like this, unfortunately so. This is investment, including recruitment, and if we want to do it that way... The government's purpose in this situation is that it is always worth taking, working rather than being sidelined, and any employer... If I'm an employer and I've been investing for two years and I've become minuses about it, then I'm not the first to fire it. It's propaganda. The last thing they want is to keep a trained employee in the company because it's started producing there. It's the last thing you're gonna do when you call it off. But if I go back to the last one, the market forces won't be asking questions about this either.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u153	Finally, we need more employment appropriations for this additional budget in order to achieve Mr Hakkarainen's good objectives, and that is why it is worthwhile accepting Mr Viitanen's initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u154	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 September 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-24-ps-39.u155	The 8th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 September 2015.
