ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please. There are still some challenges in this Chamber for us to listen to each other, and in order to take account of the debate and the other listeners, the people here and also at home who follow through this television or the Internet, we are trying to avoid unnecessary discussion in this Chamber. The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u2	Madam President! The Nordic Council's Annual Report for 2014 is under discussion. First of all, I would like to warmly thank all the Members of Parliament who have been involved in the work of the Nordic countries, and, furthermore, the Members of Parliament who are outside this Chamber, in other words, there was quite a lot of renewal in our Council. There were several themes during the Swedish Presidency, and it has traditionally been the case in the Nordic Council that there has not been much talk of foreign and security policy, but this debate intensified very strongly during 2014. So we spoke strongly in the presidency... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry,Mr.Pirtstaled,wait a minute. — There is always this kind of loud noise and constraint and debate. I would ask you to move outside the Chamber to talk about what the speaker is saying. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u5	Madam President! The report of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland takes a position on good things, and among other things the delegation from the social and health sector has focused on antibiotic resistance, which is a problem not only in the Nordic countries and Finland but globally. I think it is good that things like this are being dealt with in cooperation and that we are also trying to find the best possible solution to them. Ebola is also mentioned here, and it is also a common concern. Of course, there are other diseases that are dangerous for public health. The issue of the Baltic Sea has also been raised here. The Baltic Sea is a pearl of Helsinki, but the Baltic Sea is also a pearl of the whole of the Nordic and European countries, and the poor ecological situation in the Baltic Sea is worrying. Third, climate and energy cooperation: It is wonderful that the Nordic smart grid is mentioned here. The EU’s climate and energy efficiency objectives are achieved in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u6	Madam President! One of the main themes of the Nordic Council in 2014 was cooperation on foreign, security and defence policy in the Nordic countries. This activity report states, as has been said many times in our parliamentary debates, that Nordic cooperation is rapidly intensifying in defence and security policy. In this work, my current associate, former Minister of Defence Carl Haglund, has been very active, pointing out, among other things, the need for this cooperation to remove obstacles to genuine cooperation in defence policy. After all, they were raised above all in the event of underwater activities in Sweden and Finland, and also in other exceptional situations in the Baltic Sea. In this work, I am now encouraging the new Minister of Defence, Mr Niinistö, to be active in the possibility of receiving assistance and providing assistance in this type of situation. It is, in fact, a little strange that we have signed the Treaty of Lisbon, in which this type of action is certainly mentioned as aid, but our own legislation does not allow us to receive and give assistance to another country. The Nordic Council also adopted an opinion condemning the annexation of Crimea to Russia in violation of Ukraine's constitution and agreed with the statement by the Foreign Ministers of the Nordic, Baltic and Visegrad Group on the situation in Ukraine. In their own statement, Foreign Ministers condemned actions against Russian international law in Ukraine and supported the establishment of an EU delegation and the continuation of the OSCE mission in Ukraine. I think it is important that, on these issues too, we are united between our friends and the Nordic countries, and we will also be active in the future to raise the issue of the democratic process that we have been doing for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u7	Mr President, Fru talman! I am a little concerned, and this concerns me that when the new government in Smolna, more than a week ago, held a press conference in Smolna live and announced the government's programme and ministerial choices, one of the journalists there asked who was the Nordic Minister for Cooperation. The live broadcast showed that such a thing had been forgotten to choose or appoint to this government. - Is that right? That's a good question. — Since I am a diligent representative and interested in the work of the Nordic Council and have also sought to do so again, I have then clarified whether there has now been such a Nordic Minister for Cooperation in the Government. The official website says that Minister Toivakka is now a Nordic Minister for Cooperation. But since I am not only diligent but also careful, I checked this again for the Minister himself. This morning, in the next room, I asked if he was here today to hold this debate because he is a Nordic Minister for Cooperation. He said that he was not here to have a debate, and he did not know that here this kind of discussion is taking place today, and also was not sure whether he was a Nordic co-operation minister. This, ladies and gentlemen, is something to be concerned about. It is an important strategic choice from the Finnish Government if Nordic affairs are not central to the Government's agenda, for three reasons too, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, from the point of view of ordinary citizens, entrepreneurs, public authorities, civil society, it is precisely The Nordic countries are the important community of reference to which we want to belong and which is very important for ordinary citizens, for entrepreneurs. Let's do business, travel, study, start families. This border barrier work, which we have been determined to do for the last few years, is very important, and I hope that the new government will now take a more up-to-date stance on this. Another reason why this is an important strategic choice is the foreign and security policy situation that is currently in our neighbourhood. This Nordic cooperation for the democratic development of Russia, Ukraine, is absolutely essential. We can't be out of it. The third reason why we now have to do a stand-up movement on the government side is, as Mr Pirttilahti said, that Finland will be in the next year, in just over six months' time, the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and yes, we must have some idea and agenda about how we, as a nation of this article, are taking advantage of and are active in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u8	Madam President! I share the concern expressed by Mrs Feldt-Ranna. How can it be that we do not even know who the Nordic Minister for Cooperation is, let alone that one of the ministers does not even know that he is? As has been said here, next year we will be the presidency of the Council of Ministers, which will be a great opportunity for Finland to bring its own strategies, its own policies and its own priorities to Nordic cooperation. I hope this does not reflect the government's attitude towards Nordic cooperation, which is an international community of values that is really important to Finland. I hope the government makes a stand-up move. In my opinion, as Mr Pirttila has well said in his speech, this development of the Council's work is essential in this report. It must become more concrete and it must become more effective, and it must also involve the political debate more courageously. This is something that I hope the forthcoming new delegation will drive strongly in the next period, as we did in the previous period. But it is difficult for this delegation to drive if our government sends such a message of appreciation for Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u9	Madam President! As can be seen from page 14 of the report, the theme session dealt with the situation in Ukraine as an additional issue and decided to support the democratisation process in Ukraine. This is a very important subject. Ukraine lost 20 years, more or less, after independence, where democracy should have been developed, citizens' confidence in their own society strengthened, creating the foundations of the economy for a successful country. There the rulers and the oligarchs concentrated mainly on plundering the wealth of the land. Whatever mistakes Ukraine has made in strengthening its own society, it is quite clear that Russia's action in Ukraine is unacceptable, Robbery of Crimea and war in Eastern Ukraine. It is great that the Nordic Council has condemned Russia's actions. The trade sanctions that the European Union has imposed are criticised and said that they are a bad policy, because they have a negative impact on us, too, and because, at least in the short term, they do not bring about changes in Russian policy that are being sought. That is true, these trade sanctions are a bad policy, but even worse policy would be for the European Union, the Western world in general, to look elsewhere when Russia engages in aggressive action against its small neighbour — or, in fact, not so little — it is being attacked, taken over. It is very important that Russia knows that its aggression towards its neighbours will have to pay a political and economic price. As the situation continues, there is no reason to go ahead with the lifting of these trade sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u11	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has told us what is a bad policy and what is a good policy. I think that a bad policy is a policy that is not being done at all. And now we are in a situation — I refer to the speech I have just made — that the government is not at all doing Nordic politics. I am pleased to see that Mr Berner is here in the Chamber. Now would be a great opportunity for us to have some sort of clarity on this issue as to whether the Council of State has a Nordic Minister for Cooperation, whether the Council of State has Nordic affairs in a policy area other than defence cooperation mentioned in the Government Programme. By the way, it shines with its absence, and I would like to see that, when this is the only thing on the agenda, it would be reasonable for one of the governments to tell us what line this is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u12	Madam President! As we have heard, we have indeed now appointed a minister for Nordic cooperation, and certainly there have been before. I myself have been in the Nordic Council, and I have to say that the fact that the minister has been appointed to the Nordic Council in the past has in no way shown up in that action. We should now start talking about Nordic cooperation, start talking about the issues where border barriers need to be removed, and about the importance of being in the Nordic Council for the representatives there. Their job is to bring things here and drive things in such a way that national decisions can be taken. As to whether someone has been named or has not been named, there has been clearly a long time ago — where are those acts? There is still a bottled-up issue, double taxation, a flexible transition in social security. It hasn't happened, even though there have been named ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u13	Mr President! Yes, in previous years, Nordic cooperation at inter-ministerial level, but also at Nordic level, has been very important, for example, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, in the fight against discrimination. Even now, I hope that this government will also prepare important initiatives for our presidency here too, in which we can move forward. I find it very worrying that the government has found no further interest in the debate on this issue. In that sense, I agree with the concerns of Mr Maarit Feldt-Ranta and I am glad that Minister Berner is here, which is almost a Nordic minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u14	Mr President! As Mrs Feldt-Ranta said, Nordic cooperation is very important to us and it is a community of values and it has had a major impact on the development of Finnish society and has also given us an important framework of reference when operating around the world. I myself have been involved in the work of the Nordic Council and I have been able to see how important it is for understanding each other and also for working together. It is known that this official truth is a little better than practice. We think that all the obstacles to cooperation have already been removed, but this is not the case in practice. We have these problems, and it requires joint work from both the parliaments and the government. As far as defence is concerned, cooperation has moved forward. But then we have a lot of untapped opportunities in the economy. I am thinking in particular of the fact that the Nordic countries could be a much closer economic area, from which businesses could then make an effort for Europe and the world. Then we are aware of these border problems. There should be concrete initiatives to facilitate genuine interaction between people. And then we have some problems with taxation. Quite a lot of greetings also came before the last parliamentary elections
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u15	Mr President! I have been involved in the Nordic Council for the first time in 1970 and as a minister, I have always considered it an honour to attend Nordic Council meetings and ministerial meetings, because I consider this to be a matter of great importance and of great importance, in fact. I am pleased that I have also been able to mobilise and develop this cooperation in foreign and security policy and also in defence, and I see that it will become very important. This is already the case today and is becoming even more important. But I am concerned if the government and the government programme do not send out a clear signal that this will continue. Nordic cooperation in these areas is not only a matter of preparation, but also an active influence. The Nordic countries have a unique position in the international community and, for example, if we take literally the Government Programme's guidelines on crisis management, this means that Finland would be withdrawing from the central channel of influence in international cooperation and would deviate in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u16	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u17	Fru talman, Madam Speaker! First of all, I would also like to thank Mrs Feldt-Ranta: in fact, you took the words out of my mouth because I also have the exact same message, because I did the same research as you did. And the same idea emerged that the government does not have a solid understanding of which minister is responsible for Nordic cooperation. The first message came from Minister Berner — apparently not — and then it was said that it was Minister Toivakka. It is extremely worrying if Mr Toivakka does not himself know that he is responsible for these matters. As has already been said here by many, it is clear that these things have always been important to Finland and will continue to be so in the future. If we compare this with the last government programme — those who have bothered to read it — I mean the one that was written in 2011, then the whole programme goes through Nordic values and common goals. And as my esteemed colleague, the former Minister for Judgments, went through, we have had results, and Mr Heinonen spoke of them. It is now clear that this government has no ambiguities in this regard. It's one of the beautiful embellishment in the whole show, and it's about there. That this is quite an understatement from the government so far. The ministry is empty, the government does not know who is responsible for these matters — there is nothing to blame here, unfortunately. But let us hope that there will be an improvement because these are important issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u18	Mr President! Mr Haglund also drew attention, as did previous speakers, to this common community of values and our Nordic frame of reference and the weight the government attaches to it. I must share his concern about how this government programme, which you have an excellent foreign and security policy element, will move forward with this Nordic cooperation and community of values. Let me just take two examples. The second relates to this gigantic change in our development policy. After all, it also inevitably has foreign policy implications. We have also been part of the Nordic community in our foreign policy. Such a drastic cut, which will now be proposed — one third of development cooperation funds will be taken out — means that we in the world will be viewed in a different way from other Nordic partners. We have received a lot of credits from the idea that we are a little better in development cooperation and in relation to the third world than we are, because of this Nordic framework. And the second concerns this crisis management. If Finland is actively withdrawing from the world, as violently as it is now being presented, it may be that we are no longer considered as a member of the Nordic community as we have hitherto been.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u19	Madam President! This is where the government is beginning to take the lead — I think it is the sixth day — and it may be that there are minor technical problems in this respect. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Foreign Minister Soini has already visited Sweden, and I understand that Prime Minister Sipilä will visit Sweden on Tuesday or Monday, so that contact with the new government with Sweden and probably with the other Nordic countries will be lively. And in this respect, if any changes occur, they will happen for the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-05-ps-16.u20	The debate and the debate will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee.
